Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13785
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1623-IN)
DECEMBER 12, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currencv Equivalents
Name of Currency = Indian Rupee (Rs)
Currencv Exchanze Rates                                                     Rupee
Appraisal Year Average (1984)                                                12.0
Completion Year Average (1994)                                               31.0
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
Abbreviations
ARI          Acute Respiratory Infections
ANC          Antenatal Coverage
CPR          Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CSSM         Child Survival and Safe Motherhood
DOHFW        Department of Health and Family Welfare
GOI          Government of India
GOWB         Government of West Bengal
IAS          Indian Administrative Service
IEC          Infonration. Education and Communication
MCH          Maternal-Child Health
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PHC          Primary Health Center
PWD          Public Works Department
RTC          Research and Training Centre
SIHFW        State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
TFR          Total Fertility Rate
Government of India Fiscal Year - April I - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on India
Fourth Population Project (Credit 1623-IN!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India-Fourth Population Project (Credit
1623-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Comments were received from the
Government of India and are included as Annex B.
This project provided assistance to the family welfare program of the state of West Bengal.
Components to construct and equip health facilities and training schools, and to support information,
education and communication (IEC), population education programs, pre-service and in-service
training and program management were included.
Implementation of the civil works component was delayed but finally completed two and a
half years late. Since most targets were achieved or surpassed, the project outcome is rated as
satisfactory. But institutional development is rated as modest and sustainability as uncertain (inter
alia because of inadequate maintenance arrangements).
'he Project Completion Report is of acceptable quality.  An audit, along with other
population projects, is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wlthout World Bank authorizatlon.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1623-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PageNo.
Preface ............................................................ i
Evaluation Summary  ........................................................  iii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Project Objectives ..................................................... 1
Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................... 1
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................. 3
Project Sustainability ................................................... 7
Bank Performance  .....................................................   7
Borrower Performance .................................................. 9
Assessment of Outcome ................................................. 9
Future Operation .....................................................  9
Key Lessons Learned .................................................. 10
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table  1. Summary of Assessments ........................................ 15
Table  2. Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................   17
Table  3. Project Timetable   ..............                       .............................. 19
Table  4. Loan//Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ....                               ...... 20
Table  5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation    ......................... 21
Table  6. Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................. 22
Table  7. Studies Included in the Project .................................. 25
Table  8. Project Costs ................................................ 27
Table  9. Economic Costs and Benefits  ..................................  N/A
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ...................................... 28
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..................  N/A
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................... 30
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions ...................................... 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Appendices:
Appendix A. Aide Memoire ............................................. 33
Appendix B. Summary of West Bengal Project Completion Report .....         ........... 37
Appendix C. Cofinancier Contribution to the ICR (N/A) ..................... N/A
Appendix D. Miscellaneous Appendices:
1. Family Planning Acceptors, West Bengal: Selected Years ....     .......... 47
2. Coverage of MCH Services, Project Districts vs. Rural West Benga9 ..... 49
3. Subcenter Coverage, Rural West Bengal: 1985; 1994 ................. 51
4. West Bengal Health & Family Welfare Management Information System . 53
5. Evaluation of In-Service Training of Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives .... ..... 55
6. 'A Case Study of Two Pairs of Subcentres' ......................... 57



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1623-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth (West Bengal)
Population Project in India, for which Credit 1623-IN in the amount of SDR51.5 (US$51.0) million
equivalent was approved on July 23, 1985 and made effective on December 20, 1985.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1994 compared with the original Closing Date
of August 31, 1991 and should be fully disbursed by July 31, 1994.
Preparation of this PCR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission from January 18-24, 1994 . It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the PCR by preparation of a state project completion report, a
summary of the state project completion report, and comments on a draft of the PCR that have been
incorporated into the final report.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 1623-IN)
INDIA
Introduction
1.          India's early recognition of the threat to development posed by rapid
population growth led to the establishment of a national family planning program in the mid-
1960s. External assistance was sought, resulting in a series of IDA-supported population
projects to provide support to the family welfare (family planning and maternal-child health)
program on a state-by-state basis. The first project became effective in 1973 and the ninth
will go to the Board in July 1994. The fifth and eighth projects are urban projects, the
others are rural. Their common objectives are to support achievement of fertility reduction
through increased contraceptive prevalence and reductions in infant, young child and
maternal mortality through improved coverage and quality of MCH services. They have
evolved from assistance limited to specified districts in a state to support for entire state
programs.
Project Objectives and Components
2.           Objectives. The Fourth Project provided assistance to the family welfare
program in the state of West Bengal. The Staff Appraisal Report anticipated that in the four
project districts the following increases in coverage would be achieved: contraceptive
prevalence to about 50 percent; acceptors of temporary contraceptive methods to 25 percent
of new acceptors; deliveries assisted by trained persons to 60 percent; and antenatal and
immunization coverage to 85 percent. Infant mortality was expected to fall, although no
numbers were specified. It was expected that if in addition to the provision of physical
inputs, the quality of service delivery could be improved, achievement of project objectives
would be feasible.
3.          Components. A service delivery component comprised construction of health
facilities including training schools and furnishing, equipping and staffing of constructed and
rented facilities. Service delivery was supported by components for information, education
and communication (IEC), population education, pre-service and in-service training, and
program management.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.           Achievement of obiectives. The project's objectives were by and large
achieved. Numbe,rs of sterilization and temporary method acceptors rose by 37 and 581



iv
percent, respectively, and in consequence the contraceptive prevalence rate increased to
approximately the targeted 50 percent while the proportion of temporary method acceptors
reached almost 50 percent, far exceeding expectations. Project goals for antenatal coverage
and delivery attendance by trained persons were reached, and immunization progress was
considerable although goals were not quite fully achieved. Infant morta!ity in rural W.
Bengal fell to less than 70 per 1000 lives births. In general, the project districts progressed
significantly more rapidly than did the rest of the state.
5.           Sustainability. There are three major sustainability issues. First, a state apex
research and training institute constructed with project support was not operationalized by the
end of the project, raising serious concerns as to whether an effective institution would be
developed and the major investment in the physical facilities justified. Second, the
maintenance of more than a thousand health facilities constructed with project support is not
assured, and experience in previous projects suggests that in West Bengal as well adequate
funds for the purpose will not be allocated. Third, provision of drugs and supplies by the
state government is not satisfactory. While supply of those subcenter items currently
supported by the central government is relatively reliable, state provision is essential to
effective functioning of referral facilities and a variety of health programs, including the
excellent management information system (MIS) developed with project support.
6.           Implementation timetable and costs. Implementation of the civil works
component was delayed at the outset of the project and was completed only because the
Credit Closing Date was extended by two and a half years, to March 31, 1994. Civil works
costs exceeded the original estimate by almost a third, while expenditures for incremental
staff were substantially lower than originally anticipated because of delayed appointment or
failure to sanction the posts. Total project costs in rupees were higher than the original
estimate by about 8 percent.
7.           Key factors affecting achievement of obiectives. Key factors in effective
project management were (i) the appointment of senior officers from the Indian
administrative service (IAS) as project coordinators and the long tenure of the first
coordinator; (ii) direct involvement of senior program officers in project management and
implementation; and (iii) ability of managers to learn from implementation experience and
research results. These were linked with key program improvemnents, resulting in successful
project implementation as well as significant program impact.
8.           Bank Performance. Project preparation was abbreviated and the Bank
appraised on the basis of an inadequate proposal. The most serious appraisal shortcomings
were failure to require creation of an empowered project Governing Board to avoid having to
obtain clearance of individual project expenditures by the state Finance Department; and
incomplete appraisal of a proposed state apex training institute, which resulted in long delays
and ultimate failure to operationalize the institute by the end of the project. Bank supervision
was adequate in terms of frequency and was able to provide useful technical support on a
number of occasions.



v
9.           Borrower Performance. India, who is the Borrower under the legal
documents, made the proceeds of the credit available to West Bengal, the implementing state
of the project. and played only a minor role in project implementation. Participation in the
appraisal process by GOWB did not go smoothly, and little was done to carry out pre-project
activities. However, after appointment of a project coordinator by GOWB, project
management was competent and effective, and virtually of the project's physical targets were
achieved. Management of procurement, project accounts and submission of disbursements
applications were all satisfactory, and with one exception, concerning the apex training
institute, there were no covenant compliance issues.
10.          Assessment of proiect outcome. Based on the success of the project in
achieving its demographic and health objectives, project outcome can clearly be rated
'satisfactory.' Failure to operationalize the apex training institute and other sustainability
concerns prevent a rating of highly satisfactory,' which might overwise be indicated.
Summarv of Findin2s, Future Operations, and Kev Lessons Learned
11.         Important findinEs of the project implementation experience. The chief
negative findings concern the Bank's continuing inability to deal with civil works problems in
the population projects, inciuding improper siting of subcenters and failure to ensure
maintenance late in the project period as well as subsequently. On the positive side, the
achievement of project objectives demonstrates that a combination of good management and
key program improvements can result in significant program impact. The accomplishments
of the project's in-service training and MIS components in particular provide models that
could profitably be utilized by other states in India.
12.          Future proiect operations and sustainability. The Government of West Bengal
operates under severe financial constraints, and in addition funds for facility maintenance are
controlled by the Public Works Department, not by the Department of Health & Family
Welfare (DOHFW). Nevertheless, DOHFW expects to absorb staff appointed under the
project and has given commitnents concerning operationalization of the apex training
institute as well as ongoing support for program activities strengthened under the project.
The round of in-service training begun under the project will be completed, and further
training will be provided subsequently on a regular basis as well. Similarly, the IEC
(information, education and communication) program is planning for more effective use of
diminished resources. Support for family welfare services will also be available to the state
through the IDA-supported national Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM) Project.
13.          Lessons for future proiects. Like its predecessors, the Fourth Project was only
part of a state family welfare program and consequently an even smaller part of the national
program. The project was not designed to have an impact on the underlying problems of the
national program identified in reviews of the earlier projects, which included weak and
overcentralized national program planning and management and emphasis on sterilization for
the sake of national population goals at the expense of a balanced and integrated family



vi
planning/MCH program. The focus on achievement of sterilization and other targets, which
continues to distort program implementation in India, was less evident in this project than in
earlier ones, due to positive program results combined with relatively flexible program
management. However, target problems were by no means absent, and the good project
experience in West Bengal should not obscure the need to support major policy and
implementation changes in the Indian family welfare program. The CSSM project represents
a beginning for Bank assistance to the national MCH program. A corresponding project of
national scope on the family planning side, rather than further investments limited to
particular states, would appear to offer the best prospect for enhanced Bank influence on the
future directions and effectiveness of the family welfare program.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 1623-IN)
Project Objectives
1.          The Fourth (West Bengal) Population Project was one of a series of related
projects intended to provide IDA assistance to India's family welfare (family planning and
maternal-child health) program on a state-by-state basis. The staff appraisal report (SAR)
states that the objectives of the project were to support the efforts of the family welfare
program in rural West Bengal to achieve fertility reduction through increased contraceptive
prevalence and reductions in infant, young child and maternal mortality through improved
coverage and quality of maternal-child health (MCH) services. More specifically, the SAR
indicates that by the end of the project it was expected that in four selected project districts'
contraceptive prevalence would increase to about 50%, the proportion of acceptors of
temporary contraceptive methods to 25% of new acceptors, the proportion of deliveries
assisted by trained persons to 60%, and the level of antenatal and immunization coverage to
85%. The infant mortality rate was expected to fall, although no numbers were specified. It
was anticipated that if in addition to the provision of physical inputs, the quality of service
delivery could be improved, achievement of project objectives would be feasible.
Achievement of Project Objectives2
2.          In assessing project results, it is useful to bear in mind overall demographic
trends in West Bengal in recent years. Fertility and infant mortality, the two key indicators,
have declined consistently since at least the early 1980s: figures for rural West Bengal
indicate a fall in the total fertility rate (TFR) from 4.8 in 1981 to 3.9 in 1990, while infant
1/ In contrast to the Second and Third Projects, where all project districts were 'backward,'
only one of the four West Bengal districts was clearly backward and average contraceptive
prevalence was higher than the state average, thus "mak[ing] it possible to expect substantial
program achievements, approaching the GOI goal of 60% contraceptive prevalence." (SAR
para. 3.06).
2/ Data in paras. 2-6 are from the national Sample Registration System; West Bengal family
planning program statistics; project baseline, mid-term and end-of-project surveys (1985,
1989, 1993); and the National Family Health Survey for West Bengal (1992).



2
mortality declined from 98 to 68 over the same period. There has also been a marked shift
in contraceptive method mix from sterilization to temporary methods.
3.           To what extent the family welfare program has been responsible for these
trends is difficult to quantify. However, it is generally accepted by observers that in rural
areas the expanded availability of family planning, maternal-child health, and other health
services has been the single most important factor. The goals specified for the project
districts were by and large achieved, and these districts clearly progressed more rapidly than
did the rest of the state.
4.           The contrast between project and non-project districts is apparent in numbers
of family planning acceptors, which are in turn reflected in contraceptive prevalence rates
(CPRs). In the project districts, numbers of sterilization and temporary method acceptors
rose from 1985 to 1993 by 37 percent and 581 percent, respectively, in contrast to 7 percent
and 324 percent increases in the rest of the state (Appendix 1). CPRs increased by 19
Contraceptive Prevalence Rates, West Bengal: 1984, 1993
Pct.
1984         1993        Change        Chanze
(percents)
State                     28            37            9           32%
Project Districts         33            52           19           58%
Non-Project Districts     26            33            7           27%
percentage points (58%) between 1984 and 1993, while the corresponding increase in the
non-project districts was only 7 percentage points (27%).
5.          In 1984, sterilization accounted for about 90 percent of all new acceptors in
West Bengal, but by 1993 the proportion had fallen to about 50 percent. The experience in
the project and non-districts was along similar lines. Thus, the project goal of reducing the
sterilization proportion to 75 percent was more than achieved.
6.           There are no data available for infant mortality or other MCH outcomes which
would permit a direct comparison between project and non-project districts. In the project
districts, project surveys indicated substantial progress in immunization and antenatal (ANC)
coverage, from about 25 percent in 1985 to more than 70 percent in 1993 for DPT and polio
immunization, and from 75 percent ANC coverage in 1988 to 84 percent in 1993. Although
immunization goals were not fully achieved, levels for immunization and ANC coverage in
the project districts appear to be consistently higher than those for the state as a whole
(Appendix 2).



3
7.          The project surveys reported an increase in institutional deliveries from 26 to
40 percent in the project districts. Data on how many additional deliveries were attended at
home by either health workers or trained dais are not available, but the total figure for
deliveries attended by trained personnel may approach the 60 percent mentioned in the SAR.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.          The project, which was implemented by the West Bengal Department of
Health & Family Welfare (DOHFW), got off to a slow and unpromising start. It became
effective in December 1985, more than a year after appraisal, and a project coordinator was
not appointed until about that time. Few pre-project activities were undertaken, which
particularly affected the civil works component. However, after initial difficulties project
management improved. Extension of the Credit Closing Date from August 31, 1991 to
March 31, 1994 (para. 32) permitted completion of the civil works component, and all of the
project's physical targets were by and large achieved. The original project budget was
exceeded by about 8 percent because of cost escalations in the civil works component.
9.          Two general factors which affected project implementation can be noted at the
outset. First, a very competent senior officer from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS)
was appointed project coordinator and then allowed to retain the post for more than five
years. The project had only three coordinators, all IAS officers, in contrast to coordinators
from the technical side and/or a rapid turnover of coordinators which occurs in most states
in IDA-assisted projects. Second, senior program officers were directly involved in project
management and implementation, and there was good liaison between the Directorate of
Health Services and the project coordinator's office. Thus, a project team developed but a
project-program split was avoided.
10.         Project support for civil construction and associated furniture, equipment and
vehicles was limited to the four designated project districts. However, the other project
components were assisted on a state-wide basis. The following paragraphs review the
implementation record of the individual project components.
11.         Service Delivery.  A project strategy paper annexed to the SAR elaborated
how project objectives were to be achieved, mentioning the importance of contraceptive
method mix, demand generation, in-service training, program management at all levels, and
community involvement. The paper was entirely a Bank production, produced after the
appraisal without any input from the state, and was consequently ignored. Nevertheless, as
the review of project implementation in the following paragraphs makes clear, because
projectlprogram managers reached similar conclusions about the measures necessary to
improve program effectiveness and impact, the approaches taken over the course of project
implementation were similar to those of the strategy paper.



4
12.          One of the major objectives of the project was to enable West Bengal to
approach national norms for rural subcenter coverage (1:5000 population; 1:3000 in hilly,
tribal or backward areas) in the project districts. This goal was to be achieved through
recruitment and training of field workers and provision of constructed or rented subcenter
facilities. Coverage in the project districts, initially about 9,000 population per subcenter,
improved to about 5,800 by 1994, which, while still higher than the norm, represented
substantial progress (Appendix 3). In addition, through construction and staffing of primary
health centers (PHCs) covering 30,000 population, availability of referral facilities was
greatly expanded.
13.          After the mid-term review, program/project managers, drawing on the
recommendations of Bank expert consultants, decided to use project assistance to address the
major treatable causes of infant mortality in rural West Bengal, which were identified as
diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory infections (ARI) and low birth weight. Provision was
therefore made for training of trainers and for suitable additions to in-service training
curricula. This pioneering child survival initiative never really took hold, because ARI drugs
were not available and medical officers did not give it adequate emphasis or backup.
However, the work already undertaken increases the possibility that child survival objectives
will be achieved through the IDA-supported Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM)
project currently being implemented in all states.
14.          Field workers in the project districts were trained in IUD insertion early in the
project period and supplied with IUD kits. This is reflected in the much greater increase in
the number of IUD acceptors in the project districts compared to the non-project districts--
586% vs. 182% (Appendix 1). When the training evaluation carried out in 1991 (para. 22)
emphasized that some antenatal procedures were not being carried out because required
equipment and supplies were not available, project funds were used to provide them to all
subcenters in West Bengal; however, they were supplied too late in the project for
assessment of impact.
15.          Supervision of field workers is conceded by managers to remain inadequate
despite project training efforts. It is expected that the situation will gradually improve with
the retirement of older supervisors who lacked field experience; all supervisory positions are
now filled through promotion and training of existing field workers.
16.          Civil Works. Failure to carry out planned pre-project site selection and design
activities, combined with an engineers' strike at the beginning of the project, resulted in
substantial delays in the civil works component. These were subsequently compounded by
procurement difficulties and failure of the state government to provide funds on some
occasions. Nevertheless, some 1,130 constructions, essentially all that were originally
planned (Table 6), were undertaken. Quality of construction was judged to be generally
satisfactory by successive supervision missions. As of January 1994, some 96 percent of
constructions had been completed, 94 percent handed over to DOHFW, and 91 percent were



5
functional. On account of delays and greater cost escalation than anticipated, the total cost of
civil works exceeded the original budget by almost a third.
17.          The civil works component involved a number of difficulties. The end-of-
project survey indicated that almost 40 percent of subcenter sites, which were limited to
donated land, were outside the main inhabited area of the village. Arrangements for supply
of furniture and equipment to completed constructions were not satisfactory, and this,
combined with delays in recruiting and posting staff, resulting in delays in making new
facilities functional. Provision of electricity, which is riot unde; the control rf DOHFW, was
also much delayed in many cases. No provision was made for maintenance of facilities
constructed early in the project, some of which now require major repairs.
18.         Information. Education and Communication (IEC). DOHFW's IEC unit was
one of the stronger among the states. Additional IEC activities supported under the project
were carried out along planned lines, in the areas of community education, mass media,
traditional folk media, workshops and conferences, and innovative programs including village
health fairs (Table 6). After the mid-term review, mass and folk media activities were
reorganized to concentrate on poorly performing areas, and special programs for backward
and tribal blocks were developed. The IEC unit also used project funds to support very
successful programs for prevention and control of diarrheal diseases in blocks reporting high
numbers of diarrheal deaths and to develop IEC materials for expanded MCH interventions.
IEC orientation/training was provided for program managers, IEC staff, and field staff,
although feedback from the latter indicated a need for additional training in interpersonal
communication techniques. The project surveys indicated significant improvements over the
project period in the proportion of respondents recalling some family welfare communication
in the recent past and in knowledge of the program. These results were achieved despite
failure to appoint more than a few of the agreed incremental staff. There is no doubt that
availability of additional staff, particularly on the administrative side, would have enabled the
unit to function more effectively.
19.         Population Education. With project support, population education programs
were implemented by four departments other than the Health Department: Higher Education,
Mass Education, Panchayats and Labour. Orientation in population-related subjects was
provided to faculty and students of teacher training colleges; Mass Education staff and
extension workers; panchavat (local council) members; and trade union leaders and workers
at Labour Welfare Centres. Numbers planned to be trained were roughly achieved.
However, no evaluation of the programs' impact was carried out.
20.          Management Information System. Prior to the project, health and family
planning reporting in West Bengal was disorganized and non-functional. The state took a
decision to use project resources to introduce a state-wide unified management information
system. Goals were to implement a system that would (i) collect, collate and feed back data
accurately and rapidly; (ii) avoid duplication and require minimum staff time; and (iii) be
used at all levels of the program for monitoring, management and planning purposes. The



6
svstem was developed through a careful process of investigation of existing systems in other
states, consultation with concerned program officers and staff, pre-testing of forms and
registers before their general introduction, and training in their use. The goals were
achieved to a surprising extent (Appendix 4). The end-of-project survey reported that the
basic register was available in 96 percent of subcenters and that almost 75 percent were
found up to date. Timely submission and completeness of monthly subcenter and PHC
reports were also good. Additionally, mission field observations indicated that field workers
used the register for household prioritization and that the availability of register-generated
subcenter prevalence rates had noticeably improved local program management. By contrast,
systems in other states often do not collect data effectively and are infrequently used for local
management purposes.
21.          Evaluation and Research. A series of surveys and research reports, including
baseline, mid-term and end-of-project surveys, were carried out with project support, some
externally and others by DOHFW (Table 7). An evaluation of in-service training (para. 22)
proved particularly helpful. There has been little appreciation of the potential usefulness of
research results in the India population projects. The attitude of managers in West Bengal
was different; many improvements in program implementation can be traced directly to
research findings.
22.          Training. The pre-service training of incremental field workers was carried
out at the beginning of the project period as planned, as was management training of medical
officers. In contrast to previous projects, the Fourth Project placed major emphasis on in-
service training of all staff. The development of in-service training in the course of the
project is instructive. In 1989, about half-way through the project, several studies indicated
that the performance of field workers who had received in-service training was significantly
better than that of untrained workers, but that substantial gaps in the knowledge and skills of
even the former remained. The training strategy and curricula were therefore revised and
particular emphasis was placed on making the training more skills-oriented and more
practical. It was also decided to expand in-service training to cover the entire state. By the
end of 1991, about half of the state's some 8,000 ANMs had been trained under the revised
curricula, and a further evaluation was conducted. It was found that levels of knowledge and
skills, although improved, were still unsatisfactory in some areas (Appendix 5). In
consequence, the training period was extended, the training was made even more practical,
and the attention given to interpersonal communication was expanded.
23.          State Apex Traininz Institution. Strengthening of DOHFW's in-service
training capacity was one of the Bank's primary concerns in developing the project. The
preparation mission concluded that a state institute of health & family welfare (SIHFW), to
serve coordinating, planning, monitoring and research functions, was needed. In the absence
of a suitable existing institution that could be strengthened. creation of an SIHFW from
scratch would be required.



7
24.          Establishment of an SIHFW was characterized by a series of delays stemming
originally from an incomplete appraisal. The SIHFW as appraised was subsequently judged
by the Bank to be overly ambitious. Extended discussions among the Bank, DOHFW and
the central Ministry of Health & Family Welfare were followed by a feasibility study, which
supported the establishment of a state apex training institution, renamed the state Research
and Training Centre (RTC), but recommended further reductions in its scope. Approval by
GOI and GOWB, as well as Bank approval of drawings, all required additional time.
Ultimately construction was not completed until the very end of the project, at which time
staff had not yet been appointed.
Proiect Sustainability
25.          At completion, the project faces three major sustainability issues. First, the
failure to operationalize the RTC during the project (para. 24) raises serious concerns as to
whether an effective institution will be developed and the major investment in the physical
facilities justified.
26.          Second, the maintenance of the some 1,130 health facilities constructed with
project support is by no means assured. The report of the project completion mission
indicates that buildings constructed early in the project are already beginning to deteriorate
from lack of maintenance (para. 18). In this, as in the three prior IDA-supported population
projects, the state government is legally committed to provide post-project maintenance; in
practice, the situation in West Bengal appears little different from that in other states.
Maintenance is seldom a priority for financially pressed state govermunents. Any allocation
made will be under the control of the PWD, and even if funds are nominally available the
PWD has proved reluctant to use them for the maintenance of small facilities in widely
scattered rural areas. This problem is no closer to being addressed systematically at the end
of the Fourth Project than it was when the completion reports for the earlier population
projects noted the same problem in other states.
27.          Third, it is evident that the ability of the state's family welfare and health
programs to provide services is crucially dependent on the availability of contraceptives,
vaccines, drugs, ORS, other supplies and equipment (e.g. para. 13). While supply of those
items supported by the central family welfare program has been relatively satisfactory, there
is no guarantee of continued central support. The current supply of drugs by the state is
unsatisfactory, with no prospects of improvement. Failure of the state to provide support for
the printing of MIS registers and reporting forms, to cite another example, would seriously
undermine the excellent system that has been developed with project support (para. 20).
Bank Performance
28.          The Fourth Population Project was developed in 1984, in quick succession to
the Third Project the previous year. A fourth project was first discussed with GOI in
January/February 1984, and it was agreed that because of a mutual wish to process the



8
project as rapidly as possible the project would be confined to the single state of West
Bengal. The Bank took a conscious decision to put through a fourth state project along the
lines of the previous three and continued to defer discussion of previously identified national
program issues.
29.          Bank participation in project preparation was limited to one preparation
mission in July 1984 and a subsequent meeting with senior officials in Delhi in September.
The project proposal was first seen by the appraisal mission at the time of the mission in
November. The appraisal team did not deal adequately with either the development of a
state apex training institution or a service delivery strategy (paras. 23;11).
30.          However, the most serious appraisal shortcoming concerned a means to avoid
the necessity of obtaining line-by-line clearance of project expenditures by the state Finance
Department. This problem had proved to be a major bottleneck in the Second Project and
had been addressed in the Third Project through the creation of project Governing Boards
empowered to take decisions that were not subject to review by individual departmnents. At
the time of the appraisal, the then Secretary of DOHFW made an alternative proposal that
was accepted by the mission although never formally incorporated into the project
documents. After project effectiveness, it emerged that the alternative could not be
implemented. As a result, obtaining Finance Department clearance for project expenditures
became as much of a problem in the Fourth Project as it had been in the Second Project.
31.          Bank supervision of the project was by and large adequate in terms of
frequency and appropriate technical expertise. Supervision suffered initially from lack of
continuity due to the retirement of the original project officer and the disruptions associated
with the reorganization of the Bank in 1987. Late in 1987, the newly appointed PHN officer
at the resident mission in Delhi became the task manager for the project and remained so for
four years. The establishment of an informal working relationship between the task manager
in Delhi and the project coordinator facilitated several aspects of project management and
implementation. A mid-term review carried out in 1989 provided a productive opportunity to
assess project progress and introduce a number of modifications and innovations. The
provision of expert consultant advice in the area of child survival gave the state a valuable
headstart for the CSSM project (para. 13). The IEC component would have benefited from
stronger Bank technical support, particularly in the first half of the project, when it became
apparent that project resources were being used to support a variety of expanded activities
without an appropriate framework or strategy.
32.          The Credit Closing Date was extended as part of a 'restructuring' of the Third,
Fourth and Fifth Population Projects that was carried out in February 1990 on the basis of a
memorandum to the Board submitted in December 1989. This was done to allow GOI to
draw down the unexpended balances of these Credits resulting from changes in exchange
rates. Under the restructuring, the project was formally extended to all of the state's
districts, thus permitting additional disbursements. However, there was essentially no impact
on project implementation.



9
Borrower Performance
33.         India, the Borrower under the legal documents, made the proceeds of the
credit available to West Bengal, the implementing state of the project, and played only a
minor role in project implementation. Preparation of a project proposal and participation in
the appraisal process by the GOWB did not go smoothly. The proposal given to the
appraisal mission proved to contain many errors, and it became apparent that the Secretariat
and the Directorate of DOHFW were not cooperating. As a result, the appraisal was
completed only with great difficulty.
34.         A condition of negotiations required GOWB to establish a Voluntary Agency
Cell in the Directorate of Health Services, in order to foster greater participation of NGOs
and private practitioners in the family welfare program. To fulfill the condition,
responsibility was assigned to an existing officer. However, the Cell was never established
and staffed per the SAR because DOHFW felt that an existing voluntary organization
coordinating committee was sufficient.
35.         Little was done by GOWB to carry out agreed pre-project activities, which
slowed the implementation of the civil works component in particular (para. 16). However,
subsequent management of the project, aided by the long tenure of the first project
coordinator (para. 9), was good. Management of procurement, project accounts and regular
submission of disbursement applications were all satisfactory. With the exception of a
covenant relating to staffing of the SIHFW, there were no covenant compliance issues.
Assessment of Outcome
36.         Based on the success of the project in achieving its demographic and health
objectives (paras. 2-7), project outcome can clearly be rated 'satisfactory.' Failure to
operationalize the Research and Training Institute during the project period and other
sustainability concerns (paras. 25-27) prevent a rating of 'highly satisfactory,' which might
otherwise be indicated.
Future Operation
37.         The project completion mission (January 1994) discussed project sustainability
concerns (paras. 25-27) and the future of West Bengal's family welfare program with
DOHFW. DOHFW is lirnited by the severe financial constraints under which GOWB
operates, as well as control of funds for facility maintenance by the PWD. Nevertheless, no
difficulties concerning absorption of staff appointed under the project are expected, and the
mission received commitments concerning operationalization of the Research & Training
Centre as well as ongoing support for program activities strengthened under the project. The
round of in-service training begun under the project will be completed for all workers in the
state (Table 6); subsequently, refresher training will be given at training institutions at
intervals of three years; and in the interim years ongoing training will carried out locally on



10
a regular basis. Similarly, the IEC program is planning for the more effective use of
diminished resources, by inter alia more targeted selection of audiences and messages as well
as coordination of media use. Support for family welfare services will also be available
through the IDA-supported CSSM project (para. 13). Continued support for MIS, however,
remains a concern (para. 27).
38.          Another matter discussed with DOHFW concerns utilization of constructed
subcenters. The end-of-project survey indicated that less than half of attached quarters were
being occupied by the female field workers for whom they are intended. This is partly the
result of improper siting of subcenters (para. 17) but also reflects West Bengal's strict
recruitment policies designed to ensure that field workers come from the rural areas where
they will serve; some workers therefore prefer to live in family homes rather than to occupy
government quarters. DOHFW is considering systematic utilization of available subcenter
space for IEC and community activity purposes, which is already happening in some
locations.
Key Lessons Learned
39.          Bank. The reviews of the Second and Third Projects noted the need for a
consistent mechanism to deal with the problem of large credit balances at the Credit Closing
Date. However, procedures have now been worked out that allow cancellation of IDA funds
that will not be utilized and 'reflows' of these funds into new lending. GOI has also
withdrawn the objection it voiced in dealing with previous population projects to cancellation
of any credit balance that may still remain. Thus, SDR 5.2 million was cancelled from this
Credit in 1994, and an unexpended balance of more than SDR 5 million will be cancelled.3
40.          Project. Of the project design and implementation issues identified in the
preceding population projects, the following were successfully addressed in the Fourth
Project:
(a)   It was clear from the earlier projects that limiting project support to selected
areas/districts of a state (the 'Area Project' model) was ineffective. Expansion
of project coverage was begun in the Third Project and further developed in
the Fourth Project. In the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Projects4 this lesson was
carried to its logical conclusion, and state programs are assisted without
designation of project districts.
3/ The unexpended credit balance in this project reflects entirely exchange rate changes. The
project's original rupee budget of Rs 1079 million was overspent by approximately Rs 90
million.
4/ The Fifth and Eighth Projects are urban projects, with somewhat different circumstances
and issues.



11
(b)    A program-project split hampering project implementation was noted in earlier
projects. This was avoided in West Bengal through good coordination between
the project coordinator's office and the Directorate of Health Services and the
direct involvement of senior program officers in project implementation (para.
9).
41.          The following issues noted in review of the earlier projects, many of which
concern civil works, continued to be problems in the Fourth Project:
(a)    A significant proportion of subcenter sites were not located in conformity with
project guidelines (pam. 17).
(b)   Failure to provide furniture, equipment and electricity to newly constructed
facilities, combined with staffing delays, resulted in delays in utilization of the
facilities (para. 17).
(c)    No provision for maintenance of facilities constructed early in the project was
made (para. 17).
(d)   The failure to create an empowered Governing Board was a major source of
difficulty for the project (pam. 30). Establishment of such Boards in the
subsequent population projects is working reasonably well in some states.
(e)    Flow of funds problems at state level constrained project progress on some
occasions (para. 33).
42.          The following additional points can be noted from the implementation
experience of this project:
(a)   The IEC program in West Bengal (para. 18), like those in other states, needs
to broaden its focus on inputs and activities to include impact as well. In
addition, impact needs to be understood in terms of behavior change as well as
knowledge and attitudes.
(b)   In the Fourth Project, the scope of in-service training was broadened to cover
all staff throughout the state. In-service training subsequently became a major
focus of the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Projects. However, unless the states
under these projects adopt the skills-based, pmctical approach used in West
Bengal (para. 22), it is unlikely that they will achieve comparable results.
(c)   The importance of MIS was emphasized in previous projects, but despite
considerable investment the results achieved do not compare with West
Bengal's achievement (para. 20). GOI has developed a computerized district-
level-and-above health and family welfare MIS that could profitably be



12
implemented in all states. However, below district level the system developed
in West Bengal provides a useful model for the rest of India.
(d)   The difficulties of establishing new institutions from scratch are well known.
The unhappy history of the RTC in West Bengal (para. 24) underlines the
importance of a complete appraisal process in such an endeavor.
(e)    Failure to involve the State's Finance Department at the
appraisal stage resulted in the inclusion of unrealistic numbers of
incremental staff in the project. Particularly in the case of the
IEC component (para. 18), this hampered subsequent approval
of more realistic numbers. Project experience also underlines
the importance of ensuring the appointment of agreed
incremental staff early in the project.
(f)    The mid-term review of the project, which drew on a survey
carried out by an external agency, was useful in irnproving
project/program implementation (para. 31).
43.          How a project which started so badly was by the time of its completion
arguably the most successful of the past and current India population projects is obviously of
interest. Several aspects of project/program management can be identified as contributing
factors:
(a)   The long tenure of capable, senior IAS officers as project coordinators
(para.9);
(b)   The direct involvement of senior program officers in project management and
implementation as well as good liaison between the Directorate of Health
Services and the project coordinator's office (para. 9);
(c)   The willingness of managers to learn from ongoing
implementation experience and evaluation studies (para. 18).
These project management factors were linked with a package to improve both coverage and
quality of services that included better subcenter coverage, strengthened referral capacity,
effective in-service training, a functional MIS and targeted IEC (paras. 12;18;20;21). The
result was successful project implementation as well as significant program impact.
44.          Program. A 'Case Study of Two Pairs of Subcentres' in the project districts
carried out by DOHFW in the last year of the project provides some significant insights into
factors contributing to program impact (Appendix 6). The subcenters were selected on the
basis of high or low contraceptive prevalence rates (CPR), which were available from MIS
records; the results indicated that field work, IEC efforts and community involvement were



13
most clearly associated with high CPRs. Of equal interest, all four subcenters were rated
'poor' for treatment of minor ailments and acute respiratory infections (ARI). This result
reflects lack of drugs and perhaps training deficiencies as well. In particular, field workers'
inability to deal with common infections and skin ailments in young children, which cause
continuing problems for many mothers, represent a lost opportunity that if made good could
enable the program to greatly enhance its credibility.
45.          Like its predecessors, the Fourth Project was only part of a state family
welfare program. The project was not designed to have an impact on the underlying
problems of the national program identified in reviews of the earlier projects, which included
weak and overcentralized national program planning and management and emphasis on
sterilization for the sake of national population goals at the expense of a balanced and
integrated family planning/MCH program. The focus on the achievement of sterilization and
other targets, which continues to distort program implementation in India, was less evident in
this project than in earlier ones, due to positive program results combined with relatively
flexible program manazement. However, target problems were by no means absent, and the
good project experience in West Bengal should not obscure the need to support major policy
and implementation changes in the Indian family welfare program. The CSSM project,
which became effective in 1992, represents a beginning for Bank assistance to the national
MCH program. A corresponding project of national scope on the family planning side,
rather than further investments limited to particular states, would appear to offer the best
prospect for enhanced Bank influence on the future directions and effectiveness of the family
welfare program.






15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT ICredit 1623-IN)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
x           x             x               x
Macro policies                                                               rn
Sector policies                     0ZI
Financial objectives
Institutional development          l                         EZI
Physical objectives                 W           ZIZI
Poverty reduction                   W                                          m
Gender issues                                                                  w
Other social objectives                        11111           m
Environmental objectives                                                       w
Public Sector management                         [
Private sector development
Other (specify)                                                W



16
B. Project sustainbility         Likely         Unlikely          Uncertain
x               x                 x
C. Bank performance              Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
x               x                 x
Identificaction                                                   W
Preparation assistance                                            W
Appraisal                                       W
Supervision                                     W
D. Borrower                      Highly
performance                satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
x               x                 x
Preparation                                                       W
Implementation                                 W               IIIE
Covenant compliance                             W
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of                 Highly                                              Highly
outcome                    satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
x               x                 x                 x
Ow                                               w      



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1623-IN)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans or Credits
Credit No.                     :      312-IN
Title                          :      First Population Project
Year of Approval               :      1972
Purpose                        :      To support the family welfare program in five districts of Karnataka
and six districts of Uttar Pradesh
Status                         :      Credit Closed June 30, 1980
Comments                       :      PCR 6/81; PPAR 1/82
Credit No.                            981-IN
Title  N                              Second Population Project
Year of Approval               .       1980
Purpose A                             To support the family welfare program in six districts of Uttar Pradesh
and three districts of Andhra Pradesh
Status                         .      Credit Closed March 31, 1988
Comments                              PCR 1/90; PPAR 8/90
Credit No.                     :      1426-IN
Title                          :      Third Population Project
Year of Approval               .      1984
Purpose                        .      To support the family welfare program in six districts of Karnataka and
four districts of Kerala
Status                         :      Credit Closed March 31, 1992
Comments                       :      PCR 8/93
Credit No.                     .      1931-IN
Title  N                              Fifth (Bombay/Madras) Population Project
Year of Approvalt                     1988
Purpose                               To support the family welfare program in the cities of Bombay and
Madras
Status                         .      Under implementation
Comments                              NGOs and private medical practitioners are included in the project.
Credit No.                     .      2057-IN
TitleNo                               Sixth  (First National Family  Welfare  Training  and  Systems
Development) Population Project
Year of Approval               .      1989
Purpose                               To support the family welfare program in the states of Uttar Pradesh,
Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh
Status                         :      Under implementation
Comments                       :      Focus on strengthening of training aspects of the program  on a



18
statewide basis.
Credit No.                           2133-IN
Title                                Seventh (Second National Family Welfare Training and Systems
Development) Population Project
Year of ADoroval                     1990
Purpose                              To support the family welfare prograrn in the states of Punjab,
Haryana, Gujarat and Bihar
Status                               Under implementation
Comments                             Focus on strengthening of training aspects of the program on a
statewide basis.
Credit No.                           2394-IN
Title                                Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project (Population 8)
Year of Approval                     1991
Purpose                              To help the Government of India increase the supply of family welfare
service in the slum populations of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West
Bengal and Delhi.
Status                               Under implementation
Comments                             Focus on reduction of fertility and maternal and infant mortality rates
among slum populations by improving the outreach of family welfare
services, upgrading the quality of family welfare services through
extensive and ongoing personnel training, expanding the demand for
health services through expanded information, education and
communication activities and improving the administration and
management of health care agencies.
Credit No.                    :      2300-IN
Title                         :      Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project
Year of ADproval                     1992
Purpose                              To support the Government of India's Maternal and Child Health
Program.
Status                               Under Implementation.
Comnments                            Focus on child survival, safe motherhood (prevention of maternal
morbidity and mortality) and effective service delivery.
Credit No.                           2630-IN
Title                                Family Welfare (Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka) Project (Population
9)
Year of Approval                     1994
Purpose                              To support the family welfare program  in the states of Assam,
Rajasthan and Karnataka
Status                        :      Approved by the Board on June 16, 1994.
Comments                      :      Focus on reduction of fertility and maternal and childhood mortality by
strengthening service delivery including extension and upgrading of
infrastructure, strengthening demand generation activities through
improved information, education and communication planning and
activities, strengthening program management and implementation
capacity, and improving service quality including training, improvement
of program logistics, promotion of private sector involvement, and
funding for innovative schemes.



19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INMIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1623-IN)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step in project cycle            Date planned'         Date actual/latest
l_____________________        estim ate
Identification (Executive Project    January 1984           January 1984
Summary)
Preparation                          May/June 1984          July 1984
Appraisal                            October 1984           November 1984
Negotiations                         April 1984             April/May 1985
Board presentation                   May 1985               July 23, 1985
Signing                              September 1985         September 24, 1985
Effectiveness                        December 1985          December 20, 1985
Midterm review (if applicable)       1988                   1989
Project completion                   August 1990            March 1994
Loan closing                         August 1991            March 1994
1        As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1 623-IN)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
EXFY   E8   EI    Y89  ELY   EX91  Yf2  YE93  FYgA
Appraisal Estimate           1.0   4.9   13.3  26.1  41.1  50.0  51.0  51.0  51.0
Actual                      3.0   3.9   6.3  16.7  32.3  42.1  47.0  50.9  49.9
Actuai as % of Estimate     300   80    47    64    79    84    92    100   98
Date of final disbursement /1
/1 The Credit should be fully disbursed by July 31, 1994.



21
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation
indicators in SAR1             Estimated          Actual2
1.    Contraceptive prevalence        approx. 50%       approx. 50%
2.    Proportion of acceptors of    25%                  48%
temporary contraceptive
methods to all new
acceptors
3.    Proportion of deliveries        60%                institutional deliveries
assisted by trained                               40t; deliveries assisted
persons                                           by trained dais not
available
4.    Antenatal coverage              85t                84%
5.    Immunization coverage           85%               DPT       74%
Polio    72%
BCG      66t
Measles  49%
6.    Infant mortality                substantial        substantial decline
decline
1/All indicators refer to the four project districts rather than the state of
West Bengal.
2/All figures refer to 1993.



22
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
A. IN-SERVICE TRAINING
In-service training goals were revised following the mid-term review in 1989 and a decision taken
to provide all health and family welfare staff in the state with refresher and/or specialized training. The
modified goals and achievements as of project completion (March 31, 1994) are given below:
No. to be            No. Trained
trained              as of 31/3/94
Multipurpose Workers-Female                   8,126                  6,430
Multipurpose Workers-Male                     8,000                  3,067
Medical Officers/ARI                          2,000                  1,400
Sister Tutors/ARI                               220                    220
Public Health Nurses                            750                    584
Health Supervisors-Female                     1,764                    934
Health Supervisors-Male                       1,500                    794
Note: Staff not yet trained as of 31/3/94 will be trained with support from the CSSM Project.
B. CIVIL WORKS
Project              No.Con-
Target                structed
Subcenter                                       752                    752
PHC (30,000 pop. coverage)                      32                      32
Block PHC (100,000 pop.coverage)                  3                      3
Field Training Annex                            23                      23
Community Health Center/Rural Hospital           12                     11
PHC Improvement/Refurbishment 1                 77                      76
PHC Improvement/Refurbishment II               171                     163
Block PHC Improvement/Refurbishment             67                      67
Supervisory Training School, Barddhaman           1                      1
General Nurse-Midwife Training School, Purulia    I                      I
Research & Training Center, Salt Lake, Calcutta   1                      1
Vehicle Workshop                                 2
Equipment Workshop                               2
Cold Store                                       4
Note: The workshops and cold stores were not constructed because of changes in program strategy.



23
C. INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION (IEC)
Project       Achieve-
Target           ment
Activities originally planned
Jatra                                          3,140            3,275
Oriental Trg. Camp                            23,135           15,635
Workshop for Writers & Editors                    90              76
Essay & Debate Competition                        90              84
Workshop for Folk Troupe                          18               13
State IEC Conference                               6               6
District IEC Conference                          109              105
Block IEC Conference                           1,685            1,438
Folk Performance                               1,705            1,862
Wall Paintings                                 3,410            7,008
Hoarding                                       3,012             437
Bus Board Adv.                                   500              94
Exhibition Sets                                  363              163
Newspaper Adv.                                 2,000            1,430
Yatra Script                                       9               2
Pm. of SH Literature                          20,000          20,000
VHG Kits                                      42,000          42,000
Metal Tablet                                  90,000          46,500
VHG Booklet                                   42,000          42,000
Pm. of FW Literature                         210,000          165,000
Pm. of FW Magazine (Qtly)                    600,000         127,000
Production of TV spots                            10              10
Production of Filmns                              10               3
Prints of Video Films                            200              80
Purchase of Film from Film Division              200             117
Purchase of Offset Press Equipment:
(i) Offset Press Camera                           1                1
(ii) Addressograph Machine                        I                I
(iii) Graining Machine                            1                1
(iv) Jogging Machine                              1                I
(v) Paper Lifting Trolley                         1                1
(vi) Retouching Table                             1                1
(vii) Photo Type Setting Mc                       1                1
IEC Training:
(i) IEC Training for Dy. Demos for 6 working days
at Gandhgrarn Institute of R.H. & F.W.        36              32
(ii) IEC Training for Dist. Level Officers, Trainers
of HFWTC & Lecturers of PP Units, selected
BMOHs & SWOs at Indian Instit. of Health
Management, Jaipur                            60              27
(iii) IEC Training SWOs                          60               60



24
Activities added subsequently
Project       Achieve-
Target           ment
Copies of Yatra scripts                       9,000           2,000
Group discussions with mothers               14,000          12,300
Printing of ARI folders                     200,000         200,000
Printing of ARI posters                      50,000          50,000
Village health fairs                              9               8
Special IEC prograrn on ORT                31 blocks       31 blocks
Estbl. of Mahila Swastha Sangha (MSS)    1,200 MSS        1,200 MSS
Maintenance of MSS                         150 MSS         150 MSS



25
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
The SAR (Annex 5) includes an indicative list of eight studies/
evaluations concerned with various aspects of project implementation.
*     Item (a), follow-up study of acceptors of laparascopic sterilization,
was carried out as no. 7 below.
*     Item (d), evaluation of IEC messages on MCH, was partially covered in
the mid-term and end-of-project studies (nos. 6, 11 below).
*     Item (f), an evaluation of the management information system, was
carried out for the Government of India by the Administrative Staff
college of India.
*     Item (h), evaluation of in-service training, was carried out as no. 9
below.
None of the rest was carried out in the form suggested in the SAR.
The following studies were carried out with project support:
1.    Baseline Survey.  Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta, 1987.  The
baseline study was too delayed to have significant impact on project
planning or implementation.
2.    Survey on Gaps in Knowledge, skills and Practices of Health Personnel.
Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta, 1987. Provided the basis for
in-service training prior to the mid-term review.
3.    A Comparative Study of Constructed and Rented Subcentres.  DOHFW, 1988.
This study shed little light on its nominal subject, because it proved
impossible to identify an adequate number of subcenters constructed
prior to the project that were not decrepit. However, findings
concerning the strong relationship between in-service training and field
worker performance were partly responsible for a major restructuring of
the project's in-service training component.
4.    Feasibility Study for a Research and Training Centre.  Administrative
Staff College of India, 1989. Provided the basis for the form of the
RTC finally agreed by GOI, GOWB and the Bank.
5.    Coverage Evaluation Survey on Immunisation Status.  DOHFW, 1990.
Indicated gaps in the implementation of the immunization program.



26
6.    Mid-Term Evaluation Study.  MODE, 1989.  Contributed to modifications of
project in-service training and IEC components in particular; also
indicated that the MIS component was on track.
7.    Follow-Up Study of Acceptors of Laparascopic Female Sterilization.
DOHFW, 1990.  Indicated that in some cases more careful follow-up was
needed.
8.    A Study on the Retention Rate for IUDs.  DOHFW, 1990.  Analyzed the
factors involved in low IUD retention rates in West Bengal.
9.    Evaluation of In-Service Training Programme of ANMs.  DOHFW, 1992.
Indicated that despite progress there were still gaps in in-service
training, which inter alia needed to be made more practical. Was in
large measure responsible for further modification of the project's in-
service training component to address study findings.
10.   A Study on the Factors Responsible for Good Performance/Poor Performance
in Sub-Centres.  DOHFW, 1994.  Identified field work, community
involvement and IEC as the key factors responsible for superior family
planning performance; highlighted lack of necessary association between
good family planning and MCH performance; also noted general failure of
field workers to deal adequately with either acute respiratory illnesses
of minor ailments. Provides DOHFW with important clues for improved
program implementation.
11.   End-Line Study.  MODE, 1994.  Documented general success of the project
as well as problem areas.



27
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Table 8: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (Rs. M)               Actual (Rs. M)
Capital Costs
Civil Works                                 473.0                           825.1
Furniture, Equipment                         73.1                            98.7
and Vehicles
Subtotal, Capital Costs                     546.1                           923.8
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Salaries                                    183.2                           125.8
Training and Orientation                     90.3                           125.0
Costs, IEC Materials,
and Maintenance Costs
Subtotal, Incremental                       819.6                          250.8
Recurrent Costs
Contincencies
Physical                                     26.1
Price                                       233.3
Subtotal, Contingencies                     259.4
TOTAL                                      1079.0                         1174.7
Note:  All foreign costs were indirect.  US$ equivalents for actual costs are
not available.



28
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1623-IN)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Project
Agreement  Covenant             Original
Section     Type      Status    Date         Description of Covenant                   Comments
4           M         C         Annual       Furnish to the Association no later
February 1  than two months before the beginning
of each financial year, curricula and
a timetable for the retraining of
staff in Project Districts.
5 (a)       M         CD        April        Complete a mnidterm review of the         Midterm review
1988        progress of each component of the         was carried out by
project and of the performance for        GOWB in 1989
the Family Welfare Program in WB          and discussed with
with particular reference to selected     Bank mission in
districts.                                September 1989.
5 (b)       M         C         April        Furnish results of midtermn review to the
1988        Association for discussion and thereafter
take all necessary sections with the
Association.
6 (a)       Pi        NC       June 30      Appoint a nucleus of senior staff          SIHFW (renamed RTC)
1986        positions for the SIHFW, as agreed        construction was
with the Association.                     completed by March 31,
1994 but staff was not
expected to be appointed
until April 1994.
7           Pi        NC       December   Establish and maintain two committees        Committees were
31 1985     to coordinate the functions of (a) the     superseded by merger
Education and Media Division with the     of units mentioned
State Bureau of Health Education; and     under both (a) and (b).
(b) the Family Welfare Demographic and
Evaluation Cell with the State Bureau
of Health Intelligence, Said comnmittees
to have membership, functions and powers
satisfactory to the Association.



29
Project
Agreement  Covenant             Original
Section     Type       Status    Date        Description of Covenant                    Commn.ts
3.01 (a)    A          C        Annual       West Bengal shall maintain separate
Dec. 31     records and accounts and submit to
the Association copies which are
certified by independent auditors,
no later than 9 months after the
end of each fiscal year
3.01 (b)    A          C        Annual       WB shall have accounts and financial
Dec. 31     statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and furnish
copy of Audit to the Association
3.01 (c)    A          C        Annual       Maintain separate records for statements
Dec. 31      of expenditure, ensure the separate
accounts are included in annual
audit, and ensure that a separate
opinion by the auditors is given which
certifies that a proceeds of the
Credit have been used for the
purpose for which they are provided.
Schedule 2
1           M         C         Annual       West Bengal to furnish no later
Feb. I       than two months before the beginning
of its financial year, detailed
annual demand generation strategies
to the Association for its review
and comment.
2           Pi        C         March        WB take all measures to appoint the
31 1986      the required number of Health
Assistants (Female).
3           ST        C         March        Complete a survey to identify any
31 1986      significant gaps in the skills,
knowledge and practices of family
welfare staff as a basis for
reorientation of staff in project
districts, and fumish results to
IDA.
A:  Accounts/audits                          C:    Covenant complied with
M: Monitoring/reviews                        CD:  Complied with after delay
PI: Project implementation                   NC:  Not complied with
ST: Studies



30
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Table 1 2: Bank Resources: Actual Staff Inouts
Number of Staffweeks
Staae of Proiect Cycle  jgW   FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93 FY94
Through appraisal   102.1   27.6  74.5
Appraisal to Board   54.9          53.9    1.0
Board to Effectiveness
Supervision         110.1                 43.6   15.4   13.4   3.6  13.9   7.8   7.1    4.6   0.6
Completion            7.0                                                                         7.0
TOTALS              274.1   27.6  128.4  44.6   15.4  13.4    3.6  13.9   7.8   7.1    4.6   7.6
Note: Number of staffweeks on Completion is an estimate.
Staffweek data from Board to Effectiveness not captured in the work program system.



31
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1623 IN)
Table 13: Bank Resources. M,ssions
__________________  _____________________________________     _                                  ) P er ',r -a oce   R al rgI
Month/Year       Number of Persons       D )ays in hield  f  Specialized Staff Skills Represented           Imple-ntaion Sutus   |          ating r..  4ircr c     |s  Fcpes ot Problems 
THROUGH APPRAISAL AND EFFECTIVENESS
Jan-Feb/84          I                      -                 Mg
Jun-Jul/84          7                       8               Ar, Dm. Ec, ]EC, Mg, PE, Tr
Sep/84              2--                                     Mg, PH
Nov/84              7                       17              Ar, Dm, IEC. Mg, PE, Pli, Tr
SUPERVISION
Sep-Octl85          5                       7               Ar, Dm, Mg, PH. Tr                                  3                            3                        M, T
luon,               6                       9               Ar, Dm, IEC, Mg, PE, Tr                                            3                                      F, M, T
Nov/86              4                       7               Ar, iEC. Mg, M&E                                    3                            3                        F, M, T
Jun/87              3                       -               Ec. Mg. Tr                                                                       1                        I ,T
Dec/87              3                       8               Ar, Dm. Ec                                          3                           3                         F, T
Jun/88              4                       10              Ar, Ec, IEC, Tr                                                    2                                      T
Dec/88              2                       14              ArEc                                                 r2                                                    r
Sep/89              6                       15              Ar, Dm. Ec, PH(3)                                   2                            2                        T
Jun903              4                       4               Ar, Dm, Ec. PH                                                                   I
Jarn/91             2                       6               PH(21                                                I                           I
Jan/92              3                       5               Ar, Dm, PH                                          I                            I
Jan/93              4                       3               Ar, Dm, PH, SA                                                                                               .                    |
COMPIETION
Jan/94        |     4                       7               Ar, Dm, BEC, PH                                                                                      7
1/ Spec,aheud sutfskills
Ar . architect
Dm: demographer
IEC: iniformation, education and communication specialist
Mg    management specalist
PE    population education specialist
PH: public healLh specialist
SA . sysems analyst
Tr  . uaining speciaist
2/  Performance rutinx
I      problem-tree or minor priolems
2      moderate problens
3      rttlor problems
3/  Types of problems
F      finainil
M : managerment
T      technical






33
APpendix A
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION
January 19-25, 1994
Aide Memoire
1.          A World Bank mission visited West Bengal from January 19-25, 1994 to carry
out the project completion mission for the Fourth (West Bengal) Population Project. The
mission comprised Mrs. F. Plunkett (mission leader), Dr. K.B. Banerjee (public health
specialist); Mr. S. Chakravarty (consultant architect); and Mr. P. Kakkar (consultant IEC
specialist). The mission was joined by Mr. P.C. Datta, Under Secretary, and at the wrap-up
meeting by Mrs. Jayashree Gupta, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.
The mission would like to thank the Government of West Bengal, the Department of Health
& Family Welfare, and the entire project team, both in Calcutta and the project districts, for
the courtesy, cooperation and assistance extended to the Bank missions throughout the
project. The mission's field visit was particularly useful in providing a fuller understanding
of project achievements and impact.
West Bengal Project Completion Report
2.          The mission would like to congratulate the project unit on the excellent, very
complete and useful project completion report that has been prepared. The PCR, together
with the end-of-project report prepared by MODE Research Ltd., have provided the mission
with much of the material needed for preparation of the Bank's own project completion
report. The excellent 'Case Study of Two Pairs of Subcentres' carried out by the
Department of Health & Family Welfare also provides important insights into factors
affecting program effectiveness; the mission recommends wider dissemination and/or
publication of this study.
Credit Closing
3.          The Credit for the project will close on March 31, 1994. The Department of
Health & Family Welfare is reminded that all project expenditures must be incurred on or
before that date. A period of four months is provided to close out accounts and submit final
disbursement applications; applications must therefore be submitted to the Bank on or before
July 31, 1994. The Department may retain skeleton project staff for the wind-up period.
Project Status and Impact
4.          As the project comes to an end, the mission notes from the end-of project
report that the project's physical goals have been met almost entirely and that project impact



34
objectives have also been by and large achieved. After a difficult start, the management and
accomplishments of this project have been impressive. Through the provision of a package
that included better subcenter coverage, strengthened referral capacity, effective in-service
training, a functional MIS and targeted IEC, the coverage and quality of services has been
significantly improved and family planning and MCH achievements have increased
substantially over the project period. Coverage levels in the project districts appear to be
consistently higher than those in the rest of the state's districts. The Departmnent of Family
Welfare, the project coordinator, and all of those associated with the project, past and
present, deserve sincere congratulations for their hard and dedicated work and their
accomplishments.
Project Issues
5.           The end-of-project report and the mission's field observations raise several
questions concerning the construction of subcenters. A substantial proportion of subcenters
are reported to have been located outside the populated area of the village, in violation of
project guidelines. An even larger proportion of quarters are not being occupied by the
ANMs for whom they are intended, reflecting both unsuitable location as well as the strict
West Bengal policy designed to ensure that ANMs come from the rural areas where they will
serve; some ANMs therefore prefer to live in family homes rather than to occupy the
quarters. The mission recommends that the Department systematically pursue the utilization
of non-occupied quarters for IEC and community activities, as was observed at one subcenter
visited by the mission.
6.          It does not appear to be possible to address the question of the contribution of
constructed subcenters to project achievements on the basis of available information.
Clearly, many ANMs using rented facilities are able to achieve excellent results. An attempt
to assess this was made early in the project, but the lack of functioning constructed
subcenters at the time prevented a useful comparison. The mission recommends that the
Dept. undertake such a study at this time, to obtain a better understanding of the role, if any,
of constructed subcenters in program accomplishments and to guide possible future state
investment in the construction of additional subcenters.
7.          After the history of delays, the mission was pleased to learn that the
construction for the Research & Training Centre (RTC) is essentially completed. However,
it is distressing to learn that despite the recommnendations of previous missions furniture and
equipment have not yet been procured, nor has anything been done to sanction posts and
establish at least a nucleus for the institution that now needs to be developed. The failure to
operationalize the RTC during the project period is a matter of serious concern to the Bank
and represents a regrettable exception to an otherwise impressive record of achievement.
Continuing Support
8.          The mission is glad to record that no difficulties concerning absorption of staff
appointed under the project are expected. The Dept. expects to complete the round of in-



35
service training begun under the project for all workers in the state and subsequently expects
to provide refresher training at training institutions at intervals of three years; in the interim
years ongoing training will be carried out locally on a regular basis. The IEC program is
planning for more effective use of diminished resources, by inter alia more targeted selection
of audiences and messages as well as coordination of media use. Support for family welfare
services will also be available through the Bank-supported Child Survival and Safe
Motherhood (CSSM) Project
Sustainabiliti'
9.           The mission raised three major sustainability issues with GOWB and GOI at
the wrap-up meeting. First, as noted above the failure to operationalize the RTC during the
project puts into question the future of the institution and the justification for the major
investment in the physical facilities. The mission notes the assurances given by the Health
Secretary that staff positions will be sanctioned and filled in 1994-95 and that the institution
made functional as soon as possible.
10.          Second, the maintenance of the facilities constructed with project support
appears to be in question. The mission's architect reports that facilities constructed early in
the project already require maintenance, and within several years the maintenance
requirements will be substantial. The mission also notes the Health Secretary's assurances in
this regard. However, past experience in other Bank-supported population projects
concerning maintenance of facilities is not encouraging. Funds for the purpose are controlled
by the PWD rather than by the Health Dept., and even if funds are nominally allocated, the
experience has been that the PWD is reluctant to use them for maintenance of small,
scattered rural facilities. The mission therefore would like to suggest to GOWB and GOI
that this matter deserves special attention and that a concerted and sustained effort is likely to
be necessary to achieve results. GOWB might also wish to explore the possibility of
involving the panchayats in facilitating maintenance, especially since some of the subcenter
construction was handled by the panchayats.
11.        Third, the mission's field observations, as well as discussions with paramedical
staff and doctors, reinforce the conclusion that the state's ability to provide quality health and
family welfare services is crucially dependent on the availability of contraceptives, vaccines,
drugs, ORS, other supplies, and equipment. While supply of those subcenter items
supported by the central family welfare program has been relatively satisfactory, and will be
supported, at least for several years, under the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project,
there is no guarantee of continued central support. The current supply to subcenters and
referral institutions by the state is unsatisfactory. Given the financial constraints under which
GOWB operates, continued support for activities begun or strengthened under the project
may also be at risk. To cite a specific example, failure of the state to provide support for
the printing of MIS registers and reporting forms would seriously undermine the excellent
system that has been developed with project support.



36
Lessons Learned
12.         The Bank's conclusions concerning project and program lessons learned from
the experience of this project will be included in the Bank's project completion report.
Nevertheless, the mission would like to take this opportunity to record its appreciation of the
discussion of lessons learned in the West Bengal project completion report. The ability of
project/program managers to learn from experience and make appropriate changes in
program management and implementation is clearly one of the factors that has contributed to
the success of this project, and it bodes well for the future of the family welfare program in
West Bengal.



37
ARpendix B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1623-IN)
SUMMARY OF WEST BENGAL PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.    India Population Project IV, a project in the series of Area Projects taken up by the Govermnent
of India with the help of World Bank assistance, becarne operational in West Bengal on Septernber 1,
1985. Project design was based on the approach papers prepared for the Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-
90) which called for sustained development of Primary Health Care, Family Planning and Maternal And
Child Health Programmnes, improved coordination with cormunity leaders, basic and continuing staff
training. The project strategy was formulated taking into account the socio-economic characteristics and
status of the current Family Welfare Programmne of West Bengal. Emphasis was on qualitative
improvements in the areas of service delivery, training, monitoring, evaluation and information, education
and communication.
PROJECT AREA
2.     The four contiguous districts of West Bengal - Burdwan, Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia - were
selected as the project area. Total population of the project area was 111.60 lakhs as per 1981 Census
out of a total population of 545.8 lakhs in the State as a whole. However, monitoring, evaluation and
IEC components of the project were taken up in the entire State right from the beginning of the project,
while the training activities of the project were extended to the entire state from 1989-90. Project support
for service delivery, other than civil works, was also extended to all the districts of the State during later
stages of the project.
OBJECTIV
3.    The objectives of the project were to:
(a)    Reduce fertility and infant, child and maternal mortality by focussing on
specific programme interventions and generating demand for services;
(b)    Ameliorate programme constraints by improving service coverage and
quality, management, training and monitoring and evaluation; and
(c)    Provide experience of replicable prograrnme improvements which will
support the National Family Welfare programme and the attainment of
its population goals.



38
ACHIEVEAIENTS UNDER DIFFERENT CONIPONENTS OF THE PROJECT
Civil Works
4.     One of the basic strategies of the project was to improve the delivery of services by expanding
the health infrastructure and extending the services as near to the doorstep as possible. The project
provided for construction of 752 sub-centres, 35 PHCs (old and new) and 11 CHCs. There was also
provision for refurbishing of some 306 units of the existing PHCs and BPHCs. For improvement of
training facilities in this State, construction of one GNM Training School, one Supervisors' Training
School, 23 Training Annexes and one Research and Training Centre was also taken up under this project.
In all 1,130 Health Care Units were taken up for construction.
5.     P.W. (CB) Dte, PHE Dte., PWD and Zilla Parishads were the executing agencies for the
construction work. Besides, W.B.S.E.B. was also engaged for providing electrical service connection
to these health care units.
6.     All the sites of the Health Care Units except for the site for Research and Training Center at Salt
Lake were either donated by village community or situated on public land. These sites were selected by
the District Committees headed by Zilla Sabhadhipati.
7.     At the initial stage there were some difficulties in regard to selection of sites, procurement of
cement and steel, finalization of design, etc., and the process was slow. The initial difficulties were
overcome and the project gradually gained momentum. From the third year onwards the progress was
very satisfactory and by the end of the project period almost all the proposed units were completed.
8.     The service units under the project were provided with transport, equipments and furniture for
improving their service facilities. Some incremental staff were also provided to extend and improve the
coverage of F.W. and M.C.H. services.
(a)    Sub-Centres. The sub-centre is the health unit at the grassroot level to
cater for about 5000 population. It consists of a clinic with provision for
consultation. examination and space for waiting patients. It also has the
provision for residential accommodation of Auxiliary Nurse-cum-
Midwife. It has a covered area of 60 sq.m. There was provision for
construction of 752 sub-centres in four project districts. Initially the
sanctioned cost for each unit was Rs.1,37,800/- but this estimate was
subsequently revised as Rs.2,03,080/- for normal soil and Rs.2,39,660/-
for cracky type of soil.
(b)    New  P.H.C.  A new  PHC serves a population of about 30,000.
Provision was made for construction of 32 new PHCs in four project
districts. The following facilities have been provided in this unit -
operation theatre, laboratory, six-bedded ward for medical and maternity
patients, inner waiting space for patients, outer waiting space,
dispensary, store, office room, doctors' exarnination room, garage, staff
quarters for medical officers and staff, etc. Initially the sanctioned cost
of new PHC was Rs.24,33,400/- which was subsequently revised.
(c)    New Old Primarv Health Centre. An old PHC will serve a population
of more than one lakh. There were three such units proposed to be



39
constructed under the project. All of them have been completed. Each
unit has the provision for OT complex having operation and delivery
suites, 10-bedded ward for medical and maternity patients, dispensary,
three rooms for examination by doctors, multipurpose space, inner and
outer waiEing space, etc., besides the staff quarters. Sanctioned cost of
each unit was Rs.37,69, 100/- which has subsequently escalated.
(d)    UDgradation of Old PHC. Each CHC s required to serve more than 4
lakhs of population. This is a referral hospital. Eleven PHCs have been
upgraded to CHC by creating additional facilities like wards for 20
patients, O.T. complex, laboratory, x-ray units, etc. Provision has also
been made for aseptic OT, aseptic delivery, recovery room attached to
OT complex, staff quarters for medical and para-medical staff, etc.
Sanctioned cost for each unit was Rs.53,54,000/- which was
subsequently enhanced.
(e)    New PHC Imp.I. Under this scheme, the new PHCs were improved by
providing 6-bedded ward for medical and maternity patients, OT room
and delivery room, laboratory, garage, etc. The covered area of the new
input building is 292 sq.m. Against the provision of 77 units, the
construction of 76 units were taken up and completed. Sanctioned cost
for each unit was Rs.9,94,294/- which was subsequently revised.
(f)    New PHC Imp.II. Under this scheme, provision was made for creation
of additional facilities in 163 units by providing OT complex and
laboratory, covered area of the new building is 153 sq.m. Sanctioned
cost for each unit was Rs.7,45,922/-.
(g)    Improvement of Old PHC.  67 such units were provided with OT
complex and laboratory by constructing an input building having an area
of 226 sq.m. Sanctioned cost for each unit was Rs.7, 10,000/- which was
subsequently enhanced.
(h)    Multipurpose Health Worker (Female) Training Annex. For training of
multipurpose workers (female), provision was made for construction of
training annexes attached to each of the rural hospitals (CHC) under the
project by providing classroom, laboratory, office equipment, store,
dormnitory type hostel, instructor's room, etc. Each unit has a covered
area of 235 sq.m. Construction of 23 such units were completed against
the provision of 24 units. Construction of one unit was, however,
dropped due to a court case.  Sanctioned cost for 16 units was
Rs.6,68,900/- and the cost was revised to Rs.11,82,100/- for 8 units.
(i)    Trainine Schools. One Supervisors' Training School at Burdwan and
one GNM Training School at Purulia were constructed at an estimated
cost of Rs.42,19,195/- and Rs.1,61,36,312/- respectively. The built up
area of the Supervisors' Training School is 1256 sq.m. while the total
covered area of the GNM Training School is 5172 sq.m.



40
(j)    Research and Training Centre. As an apex body to plan and guide the
training programme of the State, construction of a Research and Training
Center at Salt Lake has been taken under the project. The revised cost
for this institute is to the tune of Rs.280 lakhs. It has the following
structures:
(i)  Two storied Institute block;
(ii) Three storied Hostel block;
(iii) Utility block and residential quarters; and
(iv) Ground reservoir, external water supply, roads and drains,
compound fencing with gate, etc.
The construction of the Institute is complete.
Demand Generation
9.    In order to generate demand for MCH and FW services and also to convey new information and
teach new skills to the workers, IEC strategies were developed and implemented under the project.
Annual action plans were prepared keeping in view the strategy plan and priority areas. These action
plans, strategies and approaches were reviewed from time to time on the basis of experience, feedback
received from field functionaries, findings of mid-term evaluation and reconmnendations of the World
Bank missions and modified accordingly. Some area specific innovative programmes were also taken up
under the project. Training courses on IEC were organized to improve the knowledge and skill of the
workers playing the key role in organizing the IEC activities. The major activities under the IEC
progranune were as below:
A.    Comrnunity Involvement and Communitv Education:
(i) Orientation training camps for opinion leaders were organized for community
education and community development;
(ii) Family Welfare Advisory Commnittees were formed at the sub-centre, block,
district and state levels with members from Panchayat, other development
agencies, staff of the Health and FW department and other government
departments;
(iii) A variety of educational materials for community education have been produced
and distributed.
B.    Mass Media. Wall paintings, hoardings and bus board advertisements with different
messages have been made under this programme. Exhibition sets have been produced
and distributed to different units for participation in local exhibitions, fairs, melas, etc.
Metal tablet sets have been produced and distributed for permanent display at PHCs and
Sub-Centres.



41
One feature film on Family Welfare with 40 prints was produced and 117 prints of
different films were purchased from Films Division and distributed to District A.V. Units
for regular exhibition.
C.    Jatra Performance and Traditional Folk Media. For organizing Jatra performance at the
block level local professional troupes and youth or village welfare organizations having
experience in performing open air drama or jatra in villages were selected. Such
programmes were however replaced by traditional folk programmes later on in the light
of the feedback.
D.    Workshop and Conferences.  Workshops for Writers and Editors, ANMs, SWOs,
Dy.Demos, Artists and Projectionists were organized.
E.    Innovative IEC Programmes.
(i) Village Health Fair. The purpose of holding a health fair in a selected block
is to extend education on Health and Family Welfare, provide Health Care
Services and entertainment in the form of evening cultural programnrnes.
Seminars and discussions, exhibitions, debate and quiz contests, distribution of
literatures, extending health care services, evening entertainment, etc. are
different components of this health fair.  A number of such fairs were
organized under the project. The unique feature of these fairs was a huge
procession of people from all walks of life to mobilize public participation.
(ii) Mahila Swastha SanEha (M.S.S.). One M.S.S. is formed for a village of about
1,000 population. A Sangha has 15 members with ANM, AWW, CHG, TBA,
etc., as members. The members are oriented in a one-day camp immediately
after selection and they meet every month to review the programme and health
problems of the village.   Better family welfare acceptance could be
demonstrated in the selected blocks after the fornation of M.S.S.
(iii) Essay and debate competitions, mothers' discussion group. IEC programmne on
prevention and control of diarrhoea] diseases were other innovative programmes
organized under the project.
Population Education
10.    Training to Grain Panchayat members, Trade Union Leaders, workers of Labour Welfare
Centres, Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers, Extension Officers of Mass Education Department,
key persons of colleges and Teachers' Training Colleges, students of Degree Colleges, etc., were
organized under the Population Education Programme through different Departments of Government.
Training
11.    The project provided substantial support for institutionalization of inservice training. It also
helped in creating additional training facilities including a state level Research and Training Centre. A
working group was constituted to coordinate and guide the training activities.



42
12.   Indian Institute of Management. Calcutta, conducted a study to find out the gaps in knowledge,
skills and practices of some key category workers. This helped in developing purposeful training strategy
for different categories of workers.
13.    Mode Services Pvt. Ltd. conducted the mid-term review of IPP-IV, which inter alia reviewed the
ongoing training programnne. This also helped in revision of training curriculum and identifying priority
areas. An evaluation of inservice training programme of ANM was also conducted by MIES branch.
This helped in reorganizing and improving further the training programmes of ANM. The following
categories of training programrnes were organized under the project;
(i)    Inservice training programme of ANMs. (Initially the progranmme was of
6 days duration. It was extended to 11 days. A separate course of 4
days' duration was organized for those who had earlier undergone
training for 6 days;
(ii)   Inservice training of Health Supervisors. (Originally it was planned for
six working days, but the same was extended to 11 working days);
(iii)   Inservice training of P.H.N. for 11 days;
(iv)   Reorientation Training of Dais for two days;
(v)    Training of Medical Officers and Teachers of Nursing Training Schools
in ARI of 4 days' duration;
(vi)   Inservice Training of Medical Officers for 5 working days;
(vii)  Inservice Training of Multipurpose Workers (male) for 11 days;
(viii)  Inservice Training of Supervisors (male) for 11 working days;
(ix)   I.U.D. training of ANMs;
(x)    Inservice Training of ANMs.
14.    A training calendar was developed for each category of worker for each year. The existing
training facilities like Nurse's Training School, Health and Family Welfare Training Centres, P.S.M.
Department of Medical Colleges, PHN Training School, etc., were utilized as far as practicable.
Maximum stress was given on practical aspects and on the job training.
MIES
(i)    A single reporting form was introduced at sub-centre, sector and PHC
level. Now, normally no other report needs to be submitted from these
units. The new PHC monthly report and sub-centre monthly report
contained informnation on essential inputs like staffing, training status,
cold chain position;



43
(ii)    Eligible couple registers were redesigned, printed and supplied to all the
workers at the sub-centre level.  The new eligible couple register
renamed as eligible couple and children register (ECCR) contains
information of immunization status of all children in the age group of 0-5
years along with information about F.P. status of the couples. Provision
to record and update follow up particulars in respect of couples and
children was also made in the ECCR. Every printed ECCR now
contains a detailed instruction in Bengali as to the procedure of
maintaining the register.  A summary sheet for consolidation of the
records contained in the register was also provided in the register. A
module has been prepared on utilization of ECCR for planning house
visits on priority basis, monitoring and evaluation of work of a sub-
centre.
(iii)   Record keeping at the sub-centre level has been standardized and total
number of registers has been reduced to a great extent.
(iv)    A system of monitoring and feedback at the district, block and sector
levels has been introduced through some standardized format and
instructions. The check list for supervisors, analytical report for review
of programmes, formats for writing resolutions of review meeting etc.,
have been introduced;
(v)    The new system was introduced only after imparting necessary MIES
training to all staff from  sub-centre to district level.  The PHC
computers, because of their important role in MIES has been included in
the curricula for basic and inservice training programme for all nursing
and para-medical staff. 89 workshops were organized throughout the
state with MPWs on MIES in general and utilization of ECCR in
particular; and
(vi)   One P.C. with printer has been installed at the D&E Cell of SFWB for
better analysis of information generated through MIES.
IMPACT OF IPP-V
15.    The project document clearly laid down the priorities of the project on the basis of a detailed
analysis of the pre-project status of the State and the project districts. The achievements of the project
have been examined from this point of view in the following paragraphs:
16.    Overall decline in fertilitv. mortality and infant mortality in the State. The primary object of the
project was to promote a Family Welfare Program with greater emphasis on MCH Care in the State in
general and in project districts in particular. A comparison of the basic vital rates (Samnple Registration
System) - birth rates, death rates and infant mortality rates in the pre-project year of 1984 with the same
rates in 1992 in the table below shows that there has been substantial progress in this direction in West
Bengal. The corresponding rates for India are also shown in the table below:



44
West Bengal             India
1984   1992           1984  1992
Birth Rate                          30.4   24.6            33.9 29.0
Death Rate                          10.7    8.3            12.6  10.0
Infant Mortality Rate               82.0   64.0            104.0 79.0
17.   Increase in Effective Couple Protection Rate. There has been significant increase in couple
protection rate (CPR) in the State as a whole during the period from the year 1984 to 1992. However,
the rate of increase was much more in project districts presumably due to investments in a service
deliverv component which was limited to the project districts only and priority attention received by these
districts in other components.
Couple Protection Rate As Of
03/31/1984 03/31/1993
Project Districts                        33         52
Non-Project Districts                    26         33
State                                    28          37
18.   Increase in Acceptance of Temporary Methods. The project has taken up the strategy of
increasing the use of temporary methods while continuing efforts to promote the adoption of permanent
methods. In fact use of temporary methods lagged in the project districts (as in all West Bengal) when
IPP-IV was taken up. The project had set up a goal of proportions of temporary acceptors as 50% of
all new acceptors. There has been substantial increase in proportion of temporarv acceptors in the project
districts and in the State at the end of the project period as shown below:
Percent of Total New Acceptors
1983-84          1992-93
Proiect State Goal Proiect State
Sterilization                           64     64  50   35      31
IUD                                     4      8   20   19    16
CC User                                 29     24  25   33      36
Oral Pill User                          3      3   5    13    17
19.    The project had its emphasis on reach and quality of MCH Care. There has been significant
improvement in MCH coverage in the state during the last few years as already indicated by deciine of
Infant Monality Rate in West Bengal. In fact near 100 percent achievement of targets (all infants and
pregnant women) of universal immnunization programmes was possible in the last few years in the project
districts.



45
20.   In the State as well progress was remarkable. A comparison of current achievement levels with
those in 1985-86 in the State is shown in the following table:
Percentage of Target Achieved
1985-86      1992-93
State     Proiect State
TT (PW)                                       64.7       98.9  76.8
DPT                                          44.1       106.2  87.3
Polio                                         25.6       107.1  88.4
BCG                                           56.1      106.6  88.0
Measles                                      45.9        93.0  70.9
21.    End Line Survey. At the end of the project an End Line Survey was conducted through Measrs.
Mode Services Pvt. Ltd. The objective was to assess the impact of different components of the project
quantitatively and qualitatively. The Survey also highlighted the lessons learned through implementation
process of IPP-IV. The findings of the End Line Survey are summarized below:
(a) There has been substantial improvements in contraceptive prevalence rate and
immunization coverage rates in the four districts covered under IPP-IV project. The rate
of increase was higher in project districts than the same in non-project districts. Reach
of ante-natal and post-natal care improved considerably in the project districts. The
performance of these districts in terms of immunization coverage, institutional birth and
utilization of Government health facilities improved steadily during the project period.
From the household survey it was observed that there is a general improvement in the
level of awareness of the people regarding F.W. Ante-natal Care, Child Survival, Oral
Rehydradation Therapy, etc. But in vital issues like attitude regarding age at marriage,
breast feeding, ideal family size. etc., there has been no significant change.
(b) The training programme was well planned and extended to all the districts of the State
under IPP-IV. The coverage of inservice training prograrrme particularly for ANMs has
been quite impressive. The quality of training progranune as revealed from the survey
was satisfactory.
(c) Development of Management Information Evaluation System was another success of the projea.
Recording and reporting system was standardized, number of registers reduced and maintenance
and utilization of ECCR were introduced in the State under the project.
(d) A wide range of IEC activities was attempted under the project including special efforts
for specific conmmunity groups. However, greater attention should have been paid to this
component under the project.
(e) Under the service delivery component a huge amount of civil works was taken up under
the project to construct over 1100 health care units (including 752 sub-centres). The
building constructinn process was. however. unusually delayed and its impact could not
be fully felt during the project. Only at a very later stage the equipment for MCH Care



46
started reaching the sub-centres. Very few of the quarters of ANMs in the sub-centres
constructed under the project were being used. Delay in implementation of service
delivery has been one major constraint of the project.
22.    Lessons Leamt:
(a) Infrastructure development should precede the software investment to get the full benefit
under a project. Delay in infrastructure development prevents full attainment of project
impact during the project period itself;
(b) Considering the huge investment required for creation and naintenance of physical
infrastructure it would be more cost-effective in the long run to concentrate on
upgradation of the existing infrastructure to the extent necessary and give more emphasis
on training, IEC and MIES;
(c) There is need for more attention in selection of sites for the service delivery units. The
system of using donated lands should be reviewed. Such lands are not often ideally
located. The Health Care Units should be set up within villages if necessary by
purchasing land;
(d) Investnent of ANM  staff quarters needs rethinking as most of the workers are not
utilizing this facility;
(c) IEC strategy should be developed on the basis of formative research to be undertaken at
the initial stage of the project and studies and evaluation from time to time. Priority
areas should be identified before hand and there should be more stress on area specific
approach;
(f) Investrnent on training proved to be most effective. Training strategy needs to be
continuously evolved through training need assessment and regular evaluation; and
(g) A good MIES and utilization of information generating through MIES can improve
performance of the programrnme qualitatively and quantitatively.



47
ADpendix D-1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Family Planning Acceptors, West Bengal: Selected Years
Temp.                    Oral
Ster.      Methods1         IUD      Contr.
Pro_ect Distrists
No. of Acceptors
1984-85.     75535         13915        8028        5887
1988-89      93430         49688       33648       16040
1992-93    103316          94758       55103       39655
Pct. Increase. 1985-1993
371          581%        586%        574%
Pct. of Total Acceptors
1984-85        84%           16%          9t          7%
1988-89        65%           351         241         11%
i992-93        52%           48t         28%         20t
Non-Project Districts
Numbers of Acceptors
1984-85    196080          57033       38093       18940
1988-89    242443         150748       83216       67532
1992-93    209643        242012       107610      134402
Pct. Increase, 1985-1993
7%           324%        182%        610%
Pct. of Total Acceptors
1984-85        77%           23%         15%          7%
1988-89        62t           38t         21%         171
1992-93        46P           54%         24%         30%
l/Condoms have not been included in the total for acceptors of temporary
methods because of the unreliability of figures for condom acceptance and use.
The figure for oral contraceptives represents couple years of protection, that
is, the number of cycles distributed divided by 13, rather than the3 number of
new acceptors.






49
Appendix D-2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION RPORT
I=
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Coverage of MCH Services. Proiect Districts vs. Rural West Bengal
Pct.
Lpcation                 Pate   Cglerage   SoQLe
BCG                             Barddhaman Dist.*         1990           73         1
Bankura Dist.*            1992          80         2
rural West Bengal        1992           61         3
polio-full immunization         Barddhaman Dist.          1990           72         1
Bankura Dist.            1992           76         2
rural Went Bengal        1992           51         3
DPT-full immunization           Barddhaman Dist.          1990           71         1
Bankura Dist.            1992           74         2
rural West Bengal        1992           49         3
Measles                         Barddhaman Dist.          1990           51         1
Bankura Dist.            1992           50         2
rural West Bengal        1992           41         3
No immunization                 Barddhaman Dist.          1990           2C         1
Bankura Dist.             1992           9         2
rural West Bengal         1992          25         3
TT (pregnant women)-            Barddhaman Dist.          1990           88         1
full immunization             Bankura Dist.             1992          88         2
rural West Bengal        1992           76         3
Antenatal examination           rural West Bengal**       1992           65         3
project distric:s***    1993            84         4
institutional delivery          rural West Bengal**       1990          21         5
project districs***    1993             40         4
*     Barddhaman and Bankura were project d_strcts.
**    Based on births in year prior to survey
***   Based on births in four years prior to survey



50
Appendix D-2
Page 2 of 2
Sources:    1. Coverage Evaluation Survey, Barddhaman District, 1990
2. Coverage Evaluation Survey, Bankura District, 1992
3. National Family Health Survey for West Bengal, 1992
4. End-of-Project Survey, 1993
5. Sample Registration System (SRS), 1990



51
PROJECT COMPLETIrN REP_Ra
INDA
FOURTH POPFLATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
Subcenter Coverage. Rural West Bengal: 1985: 1994
1.1.85
Rural
Pop.                 No. of         Av. Pop./
tmil.)             Subcenters         Subcenter
Project Dists.        9.8                   1,112             8.795
Non-Project          33.7                   3,487             9,655
Dists.
1..4
Rural
POp.                 No. of         Av. Pop./
(mil.)             Subcenters         Subcenter
Project Dists.       11.2                   1,952             5,761
Non-Project          41.1                   6,174             6,656
Dists.
Sources:    Census of India 1981, 1991; Went Bengal Dept. of Health & Family
Welfare. Population figures for 1994 are projected.






53
Appendix D-4
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
nmLI
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-IN)
West Bengal Health & Family Welfare Management Informtion System
The MIS developed in West Bengal with project support is based on a set
of subcenter registers and reporting forms that link the subcenter, PHC,
district and state.
The basic set of subcenter registers is limited to three, which are
supplied to all subcenters in printed form:
1.    Eligible Couple and Children Register (ECCR)
2.    Clinic Service Register
3.    Diary
These are supplemented by antenatal and immunization cards as well as a few
additional supply and related registers. This is a far smaller set of
registers than that in use in any other state.
The ECCR is used the record the current family planning status of all
eligible couples (wife 15-44) as well as services provided, and the
immunization status of all children below age 6. The clinic service register
and the diary are used to record provision of services by date. The system
has greatly reduced duplication in record keeping. Workers can quickly take
totals for various services provided from the clinic register and diary in
order to fill out weekly or monthly reporting forms. They can use the ECCR,
supplemented by the cards, to identify priority family planning and maternity
cases as well as needed immunizations.
The Indian family welfare program has been noted for its ability to
collect monthly sterilization achievement figures, and more recently
immunization figures as well, and rapidly forward them from PEC to district to
state to Delhi. What distinguishes the West Bengal MIS is the use of the
system for a range of management purposes at several levels. Field workera
are trained to use the ECCR for prioritization of households and tasks. They
are asked to plan their field visits beforehand on the basis of a set of
priorities provided to them, with the caution that the priorities are to be
used flexibly.



54
Appendix D-4
Page 2 of 2
Once a year, workers use the ECCR to calculate contraceptive prevalence
as of the last day of the year, which results in prevalence figures for each
village in the subcenter area by method, age, and number of living children.
One of the most obvious indications of the development of the MIS is to see on
subcenter walls a chart showing the CPR for the subcenter area by village and
method for the last several years. It is therefore possible to see at a
glance overall progress over time, the relative progress of the different
contraceptive methods, and whether any village needs particular attention.
Workers are also trained to use CPRs and other figures available to them from
their records to assess their own progress in reaching coverage goals.
CPRs are now cumulated at block and district level as well. For 1992-
93, CPRs from MIS data were available for 14 of 18 districts in West Bengal.
These CPRs represent actual contraceptive use, in contrast to the couple
protection rates that the Indian family welfare program calculates from
achievement numbers. The two sets of figures correspond fairly well,
indicating that the MIS prevalence rates are reasonable and also that the
achievement figures for temporary contraceptive methods are not substantially
inflated, as in the case in some other states.
The major achievements of the West Bengal health & family welfare MIS
can be summarized as follows:
1.    There is now a standardized system for recording and reporting.
Duplication has been avoided as far as practicable, and the
workload of the workers for recording and reporting has been
reduced to a great extent.
2.    A fixed time schedule for reporting of data is now maintained.
3.    ECCRs are now used routinely to prioritize house -isits and
identify weaknesses and problems. CPRs are available for
villages, subcenters and blocks for most of the districts.
Village wise and subcenter-wise CPRs and other MIS information are
being used for IEC planning and for organizing services. The ECCR
has become the basis for planning, implementing and evaluating the
work of field workers.
4.    The monthly analytical MIS report is now being used at district
and block level for monitoring and feedback. The monthly
district-level meeting has become more meaningful through the use
of the MIS analytical report and other information generated by
the system, as well as a standardized MIS checklist.
5.    Introduction of the MIS has brought to West Bengal family welfare
and health programs a culture of decision making on the basis of
information generated by the system.



55
Appendix D-S
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT (Credit 1623-rN)
Evaluation of In-Service Traininc of Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives
The following are the conclusions of a field evaluation of in-service
training of auxiliary nurse-midwives (ANMs) carried out by the Department of
Health & Family Welfare in 1992.
1.    On the whole, the in-service training program succeeded in imparting
knowledge and skills co a majority of the trainees. However, the
evaluation indicated that 20-30' of the trainees lacked adequate
knowledge and skills in some subjects even after having attended the
training program, indicating that there was scope for improvement.
2.    From feedback from the trainees, it was concluded that inclusion of mor
practical demonstration in the classroom, hospital and subcenter clinics
was needed to improve t;e training course. Modules prepared in Bengali
are also required.
3.    The training on acute respiratory infections (ARI) was found to be the
least effective part of the curriculum.
4.    For oral rehydration therapy (ORT), the practice level was high, but
there were gaps in knowledge and skills about classification of
dehydration and the type of advice to be given to the mother. This
aspect of the curriculum needs to be strengthened by inclusion of more
practical demonstrations sessions.
S.    Training in antenatal care (ANC) services was generally effective.  But
many of the trainees lacked required skills to carry out a urine test,
and many were unable to classify or treat clinical anemia properly. It
was reported that urine testing, blood pressure measurement, and
weighing of pregnant women could not be done in many cases for want of
equipment and supplies. As a result, many trained ANMS could not
utilize the knowledge and skills acquired during the training program
and tended to forget what they had learned. The same is true for
detecri.on and management of low birth weight infants. Although the
trainees learned different aspects of caring for LBW infants, the
practice of weighing all babies at birth was not general and specific
instructions to this effect were needed.



56
Agoendix D-5
Page 2 of 2
6.    Many ANMs did not have proper knowledge about the type of family
planning advice to be given to postnatal mothers. A need for special
educational materials for postnatal mothers was indicated.
6.    Lack of adequate knowledge and skill in sterilization of syringes and
needles during immunization in a good number of cases was a matter of
serious concern.
7.    In the trainees' opinion, the IEC training did not include much that was
new.
S.    About half of the ANMs evaluated lacked proper IUD insertion skills.
They requested more practical sessions on ILU insertion during the
training program.



