Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C1R. 16 2 3 -TJ
Report No. P-4124-I1N
REPORT AND RECMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 51.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
FOURTE POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
July 2, 1985
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRECY EQU:VAETS
(As of July 1, 1985)
US$1.00      =  Rs 12.317
Ra 1.t00     =  US$0.0812
Rs 1 million = US$81,200
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 12, which represents the average exchange
rate at the time of appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CHC      -   Conmunity Health Center
DHS      -   Director of Health Services
EPI      -   Expanded Program of Immunization
GNM      -   General Nurse-Midwife
GOI      -   Government of India
GWB      -   Government of West Bengal
HAF      -   Health Assistant (Female)
HFW      -   Health and Family Welfare
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IEC      -   Information, Education and Communication
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MCR      -   Maternal and Child Health
MIES     -   Management Information and Evaluation System
MOHFW    -   Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MPWF     -   Hultipurpose Worker Female
MPWM     -   Multipurpose Worker Male
PHC      -   Primary Health Center
SBEI     -   State Bureau of Health Intelligence
SIHFW    -   State Institute of Health and Family Welfare



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Glossary
Current Contracep-     Proportion of eligible couples estimated to be
tive Prevalence:      currently using a method of (modern) contraception.
Effective Contracep-   Current contraceptive prevalence adjusted for the
tive Prevalence:      relative effectiveness of contraceptive methods
(sterilization and oral contraceptives are assumed to
be 100% effective, IUDs 95% and conventional
contraceptives 50X); always somewhat lower than
current prevalence.
Crude Birth Rate:      Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate:      Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Population     Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
Growth:               migration, expressed as a percentage of the total
population in a given year.
Infant Mortality       Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per
Rate:                 1,000 live births during the same year.
Total Fertility        The average number of live children that would be
Rate:                 born per woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years, and bear children according to a
given set of age-specific fertility rates. The total
fertility often serves as an estimate of the average
number of children per family.
Equivalent             An index of overall family planning performance
Sterilizations:       calcuLated by adding the number of steriLizations
performed over a period of time, one-third the number
of IUDs inserted, one-eighteenth the number of
equivalent contraceptive users (condoms, diaphragms,
etc.), and one-ninth the number of equivalent oral
contraceptive users. These weights are derived from
an assessment of numbers of births averted by
different contraceptive methods in India.
Family Welfare         The Government of India's family planning, and
Program:              maternal and child health care services.
IThi document ha a msthuS disbuton and may be ued by rapients ont in de pefonrance
of their oflkci dufe Its contents nay not othenie be discselld withiout Wofid Bhk authdtion



-ii-
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT- WEST BENGAL
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:              The State of West Bengal.
Amount:                    SDR 51.5 million (US$51 million equivalent).
Terms:                     Standard.
Relending Terms:          As part of Central assistance by the Government
of India (COI) to the State for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the
time. At present, Central assistance for health
and family welfare activities is provided on a
grant basis. GOI would bear the exchange risk.
Project Description:      The project would have as its major objectives a
reduction of fertility and infant, child and mater-
nal mortality in the State of West Bengal. It
would assist the Government of West Bengal (GWB) in
accelerating the development of its family welfare
program in the State generally and more specifi-
cally in four selected districts with a total
population (1985) of approximately 12.2 million.
It would comprise the following major components:
(a) service delivery; (b) demand generation,
including information, education and communication
activities and population education; (c) training;
(d) monitoring and evaluation; and (e) project
management. Project risks pertain to the difficul-
ties of persuading some 2 million couples to change
their attitudes toward the acceptance of family
planning and maternal and child health practices
aimed at improving the health of children and
limiting family size. In view of the experience
gained from previous Bank Group projects in India,
and the project support to be provided by the COI
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, risks
associated with project implementation are expected
to be minimal. With the strengthening of CUB's
ability to design and implement more effective
operational strategies, together with the con-
siderably expanded demand generation program,
achievement of projected levels of contraceptive
prevalence should be possible.



-iii-
Estimated Costs                                Local    Foreign     Total
-(US$ millions)
Service Delivery                           44.1       4.4      48.5
Demand Generation                           4.7       0.3       5.0
Training                                    8.7       0.8       9.5
Monitoring and Evaluation                   1.1       0.1        1.2
Project Management                          4.0       0.2       4.2
Total Base Cost                          62.6       5.8      68.4
Physical Contingencies                      1.9       0.2       2.1
Price Contingencies                        18.2       1.2      19.4
TOTAL 1/                                 82.7       7.2      89.9
Total Net of Taxes
and Duties                               77.2       7.2      84.4
Financing Plan:
IDA                                       43.8        7.2      51.0
GOI GrantIGUB Contributions 1/             38.9        -       38.9
Total                                      82.7       7.2      89.9
Estimated
Disbursement:
(Us$ millions)
FY 86    FY 87    FY 88    FY 89    FY 90    FY 91    FY 92
Annual:       1.0      3.9      8.4      12.8     15.0      8.9       1.0
Cumulative:       1.0      4.9     13.3      26.1     41.1     50.0     51.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 5523-IN, dated June 17, 1985.
1/ Includes about US$5.5 million of taxes and duties.



- - INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE FOULRTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to India for SDR 51.5 million (US$51 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project designed to support the implementation of
the Government of India's (GOI) integrated family welfare program in the State
of West Bengal. GOI would channel the proceeds of the credit to the State of
West Bengal in accordance with its standard terms and arrangements for financ-
ing state developmenr projects. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950/51 - has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981182, while the share of
induIstry rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
abouxt 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the Large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eLiminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51:  the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of CDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Maharashtra Composite Irrigation III Project
(No.P-4116-IN), dated June 20, 1985.



-2-
investment rate rose from 12.52 of GDP to 24.8% in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20X was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3Z of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2Z per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher leveLs of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.32, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
CDP growth averaged atmost 52 per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5Z per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6Z. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized polici'es on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and



-3-
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth raL_
of wholesale prices declined from over 18X in 1980/81 to only 2.6Z in 1982/83,
but rose to over 92 in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3Z, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4Z in 1980/81 and 8.6Z in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15% and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10Z, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4Z, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.8%, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7%
with agricultural production growth in the 9Z-10% range and industrial growth
of 4.5%. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agrictltural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 1OZ-12Z over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6Z per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7Z due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.



-4-
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5Z in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already ava l-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharplv had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is there5ore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings race, which averaged 22.6% of CDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25% of CDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3Z of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8Z, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs



-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~5
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "others
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to USS3.4 billion in 1983184 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high Levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Mcnetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of pay- ats
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capitaL goods.  Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,



-6-
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30Z
higher than in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investmenc is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10X higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50Z of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.62 in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the ec-nomy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has



-7-
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33Z of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
Large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2Z per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its



-8-
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 512 of the rural population and 402 of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration oi economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1985. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1985
totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1985.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$7 million equity. A stmmary statement of IFC disbursements as of
March 31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed



-9-
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of per-
formance under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue
to be given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources.
Accordingly the Bank Group will continue to support the development of the
energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical
shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and industrial sectors.
Fourth, support of urban development and other GOI basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue in light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by
about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterieration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,



-10-
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and poLicies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderabLy above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On Harch 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36Z (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of March 31, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.
PART III - TEE POPULATION SECTOR IN INDIA
Population and Health Situation
29.     India is the second most populous nation in the world.  As of 1981,
it had approximately 700 million inhabitants. In recent years, India's fer-
tility rate has declined from approximately 6.0 in 1951-61 to about 4.8 in
1981, and the crude birth rate has also declined, from 41 per thousand in 1971
to 34 per thousand in 1981. Although rising female age at marriage has con-
tributed to these changes, the primary reason for the declines has been a fall
in marital fertility. Lower fertility is largely attributed to the success of
the national family planning program in increasing effective contraceptive
prevalence from 11Z in 1971 to 29% in 1984. The crude death rate in India (13
per thousand in 1981) has also been declining, largely as the result of public
health measures. Although India's intercensal 1971-1981 population growth rate
of 2.25% per annum is modest compared with that of many other developing
countries, the sheer numbers added each year (an estimated 16 million since
1980) represent a serious constraint on India's development effort. According
to current Bank projections, which assume the achievement of replacement Level



-11-
fertility by 2010, India is expected to have a stationary population of 1.4 bi -
lion by 2025.
30.     India's family welfare program has made encouraging progress, although
the national averages mask substantial variations among the States: the total
fertility rate in Kerala was 3.0 compared to 5.8 in Uttar Pradesh (1980), while
effective contraceptive prevalence was only 15% in Uttar Pradesh compared with
47% in Maharashtra (1984). Furthermore, family plAnning performance in the
northern States of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, which together con-
stitute 30% of India's population, continues to lag far behind the rest of the
country. Contraceptive prevalence in these States is still below 20%, whereas
in the States of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, and Haryana, it has surpassed
40%. A number of factors account for these differences. In Maharashtra a
strongly administered program has demonstrated notable results, while in Punjab
and Haryana relatively high levels of rural prosperity have undoubtedly con-
tributed to family planning achievements. In Kerala, where female educational
levels are far higher than elsewhere in India, the later ages at which women
marry has been an important factor in reducing fertility. At the same time,
however, a number of program problems-overreliance on sterilization and
weaknesses in management, training, monitoring and evaluation, and information,
education and communication (IEC) capacities-hinder the progress of the family
welfare program throughout India.
The Project State and Districts
31.     The proposed project will be implemented in West Bengal, India's fourth
most populous State, with a population density of 615 persons per square km.,
second only to Kerala. Overall literacy and female literacy (41% and 30%
respectively, in 1981) are somewhat higher than the all-India averages (36Z and
25Z). Crude birth and death rates for 1982-34 and 11 per thousand,
respectively--were slightly lower than comparable all-India rates. Effective
contraceptive prevalence was 28% in 1984, close to the all-India average of
29%. To achieve this level of contraceptive prevalence, West Bengal has relied
heavily on sterilization, which in 1984 accounted for 94X of effective con-
traceptive prevalence and 64% of new and equivalent acceptors, as compared with
86% and 43%, respectively, for all of India.
32.     The project will cover four rural districts 1/ located contiguously
in the southern half of the State along the border with Bihar. Three of the
four districts are overwhelmingly rural (about 92%), while the fourth has a
moderate urban population (about 29Z). The proportion of scheduled caste and
tribal populations in the districts (35%) is higher than the State average
(28%). Female literacy (30%) is exactly the State average. Effective con-
traceptive prevalence in 1984 ranged from 31X to 38% in the project districts,
compared with the State average of 28%. Existing coverage of health and family
welfare facilities averages 46% of requirements, which is about equal to the
State average.
1/ Bankura, Bhirbhum, Bardhaman, and Puruliya, in Bardhaman Division.



-12-
Family Planning in India - History and Present Strategies
33.     India's national family planning program dates back to 1952, but it
was not until the mid-1960s that serious efforts were undertaken to implement
a nationwide outreach program. Initial activities encountered a series of
setbacks. A campaign to popularize intra-uterine devices and a vasectomy camp
effort failed to achieve sustained success. Since 1977, however, all
Governments have supported a national family planning program, and significant
progress has been made recently. The numbers of new family planning acceptors
are currently at record levels, and effective contraceptive prevalence has
risen an average of 2.2Z per year from 1980 to 1984, to the present level of
more than 29%.
34.    The GOI population policy goal is to reduce fertility through the
support of a family planning program and the support of social strategies known
to reduce fertility. Family planning is an essential part of the Government's
overall health strategy, which emphasizes promotive and preventive health care
rather than curative care, the provision of services to those currently
anderserved, and the involvement of local communities.
35.     The National Health Policy Document (1984) established the following
demographic targets, which are to be achieved by 2000:
Crude Birth Rate                                 21 (per 1,000 population)
Crude Death Rate                                  9 (per 1,000 population)
Infant Mortality Rate                     below 60 (per 1,000 live births)
Life Expectancy                                  64 (years)
Net Reproduction Rate                             1 (female child per woman)
Immunization Coverage                     above 85%
Effective Contraceptive Prevalence Rate          60%
To meet these goals, the approach papers for the GOI's draft Seventh Five-Year
Plan (1985-89) focus on sustained development of program activities, emphasiz-
ing better and more relevant training; increased attention to maternal and
child health; and improved coordination with voluntary agencies. The
Government supports the adoption of contraception on a purely voluntary basis,
and the equal promotion of all contraceptive methods, leaving the choice to
individual couples. Family planning services in all States are supported by
demand generation activities that include mass media campaigns, inter-personal
communication and the introduction of population education in schools and
comnunity groups. The GOI is currently utilizing international assistance to
undertake family welfare projects in selected districts of 14 States. These
Area Projects are designed to achieve measurable improvements in health status
and contraceptive prevalence through the provision of targeted levels of
facilities, staffing, and training over a five-year period, and to provide
insight into program improvements that could be more widely adopted.
Family Welfare Program Organization
36.     Policymaking for population matters is the joint responsibility of the
States and the Central Government, whereas program implementation is a State
responsibility. Since the family welfare program is a national concern, expen-
ditures incurred by the States are met from GOI funds. The GOI Ministry of



-13-
Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW). through its Department of Family Welfare, is
responsible for directing, guiding and evaluating the overall program. In each
major State, there is a Regional Director for Health and Family Welfare,
responsible to the Center, who advises the State Government on program
implementation and provides feedback information.
37.     In West Bengal, the Director of Health Services (DHS), who is ex
officio Secretary to Government, is the technical head of the health and family
welfare program. He is assisted by the State Family Welfare Officer, supported
by assistant directors. There are 18 health and family welfare districts, each
under the charge of a Chief Medical Officer.
Delivery of Family Welfare Services
38.     The pattern of infrastructure and staffing established under the draft
Seventh Plan continues Sixth Plan efforts to expand and strengthen service
delivery in rural areas. It is based on a three-tiered structure of facilities
serving approximately 5,000, 30,000 and 100,000 population, respectively. The
apex of the delivery system will be old primary health centers (old PHCs),
covering a community development block with a population of approximately
100,000. Old PECs will be staffed by three medical officers, three nurses, and
support staff. One in every two old PHCs will be developed into a community
health center (CHC), providing specialist services in obstetrics, pediatrics,
and surgery. Below the old PHCs/CHCs at the block-level, and supervised by
them, will be new primary health centers (new PHCs) serving approximately
30,000 people. New PHCs will be directed by a medical officer and staffed by
male and female health assistants responsible for supervising the field-level
multipurpose workers (MPWs), male and female, posted at subcenters. Subcenters
are the lowest level in the system, each serving approximately 5,000 people.
Each new PHC will supervise the work of about five subcenters. Female multi-
purpose workers are the linchpin of the family planning effort in that they
provide maternal and child health services to mothers and children in their
homes and at subcenter clinics, convey family planning information, conduct
deliveries, and support the efforts of village health guides and trained dais
(traditional birth attendants). Male multipurpose workers also distribute
family planning information but concentrate primarily on sanitation and
environmental health.
Experience with Past Lending
39.     The Bank's first population project in India became effective in 1973.
It. covered five districts in Karnataka and six in Uttar Pradesh. It was funded
through an IDA credit of US$21.1 million and a SIDA grant of US$10.6 million.
A second project covered six districts in Uttar Pradesh and three in Andhra
Pradesh. Supported by an IDA credit of US$48 million, the second project
became effective in 1980 and is expected to be completed by December 1985. It
provides for the extension of services to inadequately covered rural areas in
both States and is particularly concerned with generating demand through IEC
activities, staff training, and improving reporting and evaluation systems to
strengthen planning and management capabilities. There has been increased
acceptance of non-terminal contraceptive methods and improved coverage of key
maternal and child health (MCH) activities in the project districts of both
States. The third population project, which became effective in Kay 1984,



-14-
covers six districts in Karnataka and four in Kerala, and is supported by an
IDA credit of US$70 million. The scope of the third project has expanded from
a narrow district focus to a broader State perspective with support for demand
.generation, management information and evaluation, and to some extent training
activities on a Statewide basis. Project implementation is currently ahead of
schedule in some areas.
Bank Group Strategy in the Sector
40.     Project implementation has served to demonstrate that while an approach
limited to strengthening selected areas within States creates the necessary
infrastructure, it leaves overall program design and operation weak.
Accordingly, the Association will increasingly support projects which address
and help to resolve Statewide needs and problems. In project design, opera-
tional strategies will take full account of the particular demographic and
socio-economic characteristics of the States concerned. Consideration will be
given to a broad range of issues, including, inter alia, an examination of the
factors determining fertility levels, lessons to be learned from successful
programs under implementation elsewhere, institutional factors which could
contribute to enhanced program effectiveness, and the potential contributions
of non-governmental organizations to program support. Additionally, project
design will focus on a number of major program constraints identified under our
previous projects. Essentially managerial and administrative, these
inadequacies--all of which are evident in West Bengal--include an overreliance
on sterilization, weaknesses in information, education and communication
activities, management, training, monitoring and evaluation. The proposed
project builds on the Statewide approach initiated under the third project. It
addresses program constraints at State level by strengthening the ability of
the State Department of Health and Family Welfare (EH) to improve implementa-
tion in three important ways. A management information and evaluation system
(MIES) will be introduced on a Statewide basis to strengthen the analysis of
program performance and improve future planning. Secondly, a State Institute
for Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW) will be established to improve the
quality of training and raise the skills of HFW staff. And thirdly, IEC
activities and staff will be strengthened throughout the State and population
education programs introduced through existing institutions.
41.     Effective contraceptive prevalence has more than doubled in India since
1971, reaching 29% in 1984. This is a noteworthy achievement. However,
progressing beyond this level toward GOI's goal of 60Z contraceptive prevalence
by 2000 presents difficult challenges. Current program strategies in areas
where contraceptive prevalence already.approximates the national average will
need to be carefully evaluated to assess their adequacy for increasing current
contraceptive prevalence rates still further. The proposed project affords
this opportunity, and will provide valuable operational experience on which to
evaluate the need for revisions or refinements to current strategies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The proposed project was prepared by the Directorate of Health and
Family Welfare (HEFW) in West Bengal, with assistance from the GOI MOHFW. It
was appraised in November 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in
April-Hay 1985, with Mr. C.K. Ramachandran of the Department of Economic



-15-
Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of the Indian Delegation. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5523-IN, dated June 17, 1985, is being distributed
to Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Concept and Objectives
43.     The proposed project is designed to assist the GWB improve and
accelerate the development and impLementation of its health and family welfare
program, and to support the COI in further developing its national program.
The project addresses issues of program improvement at the State level,
emphasizing demand generation, training, and institutional development. The
principal objectives of the project are to reduce fertility and infant, child,
and maternal mortality and morbidity; to ameliorate program constraints; and to
develop replicable program improvements in support of national HF1 goals. The
project will support the expansion of service delivery in four rural districts,
focusing on the generation of demand for services and the implementation of
effective operational strategies. At the State level, the project will
endeavor to improve management, planning, and monitoring and evaluation;
improve professional and technical skills through programs of training and
retraining; generate involvement in family planning activities through the
efforts of community leaders, local government and voluntary organizations; and
develop improved IEC strategies that will reinforce and support program inter-
ventions through interpersonal communications and available mass media
channels.
Project Description
44.     Service Delivery.  Infrastructural facilities in the four selected
rural districts will be strengthened by increasing the number of subcenters
from the current level of 872 to 1,909. Of the additional 1,037 subcenters to
be established, 752 will be constructed within gram panchayat (local
government) compounds so that services will be available at important community
locations and the program will be more readily identifiable with the community.
The remaining subcenters will be established in rented accommodation, which
will be fully furnished and equipped for the purpose. To provide adequate
family welfare referral services and to allow closer supervision of subcenter
staff, 248 existing dispensaries would be upgraded to new PHCs and a further 32
new PHCs would be constructed. Each would be equipped with a laboratory, a
small operating theatre, and a minimum of six beds and would serve an average
population of 30,000.
45.     At proposed Seventh-Plan levels of one CHC for every two blocks, 47
CHCs would be required. However, due to the existing strength of facilities at
the block level and the costs of improving present facilities to CHC standards,
the project will provide CHCs on the basis of one for every four blocks. The
project will construct three additional old PHCs and upgrade twelve old PHCs to
CHCs by the provision of a small operating theatre, x-ray facilities,
laboratory and a ten-bed ward. The remaining old PHCs serving 100,000
population, of which there are 67, would be improved by the addition of a



-16-
laboratory, small operating theatre, and accommodation for IEC and statistical
staff.
46.     The level of staffing would be increased under the project in line with
the proposed establishment of facilities. About 1,400 additional female MPWs,
1,100 additional General Nurse Midwives (GNMs) and 300 Health Assistants Female
(HAFs) will be employed under the project. An adequate number of doctors,
dentists, medical specialists, lab technicians, male supervisors and MPWs are
available at presezat to meet project requirements. In order to ensure
availability of an adequate number of HAFs to carry out proper supervision of
MPWFs at subcenters, GWB will, by March 31, 1986, take all measures to appoint
the required number of Health Assistants Female (para. 2 of Schedule 2, draft
Project Agreement). The lack of staff mobility seriously affects service
delivery, especially referral services and program supervision. To alleviate
this situation in the project districts, transport would be provided to replace
unroadworthy vehicles and to meet new requirements, along with adequate
vehicle- and equipment-maintenance facilities.
47.     Program Quality.  The project seeks to improve the service delivery
quality in the four selected districts and throughout the State by focusing on
priority needs, effective supervision of staff, and organizational reform.
Family planning activities will emphasize temporary contraceptive methods,
aimed at the eligible couples for whom permanent methods are not appropriate.
IEC programs in the project districts will support the efforts of field workers
by providing appropriate messages to potential users of temporary methods.
Maternal and child health programs will emphasize prenatal, postnatal and
immunization coverage, as well as the treatment of diarrhea and pneumonia,
which account for the majority of preventable deaths of young children. Dais
will be trained on a priority basis and will be provided with the necessary
materials to ensure safe and sanitary home deliveries. Ongoing child care will
be based on growth monitoring and identification and treatment of children who
fail to thrive. To effectively carry out these activities, emphasis will be
placed on supportive supervision in the field. A paper incorporating these
strategies has been prepared and will be used as a basis for staff reorienta-
tion and training. It will also help to strengthen managerial attitudes toward
priority program improvements and will serve as a general guide in program
implementation. Workshops will be held at the start of the project to acquaint
all project managers and supervisors with the content and rationale of project
strategies and with the role of supervisors in implementing them.
48.     The family welfare program in West Bengal is supported by various
voluntary agencies, such as the Red Cross, the Ramakrishna Mission, and other
service organizations. In order to provide a central point from which to plan
and coordinate vcluntary activities, and to help to maximize potential con-
tributions through a streamlining of cumbersome administrative procedures, the
GWB has recently established a Voluntary Agency Cell. The Cell is headed by an
Additional Director (Administration) Health Services, who will be responsible
for planning and coordinating voluntary agency assistance, monitoring
activities, ensuring service quality, improving financial support and payments,
and coordinating innovative schemes developed by the voluntary agencies.



-17-
ffC. GOI's policy calls for the integration at all levels of the family
planning and maternal and child health programs. In West Bengal, the respon-
sibility for nutrition activities, the expanded program of immunization (EPI)
and the male multipurpose worker scheme remains under the Joint Director,
Public Health, while family welfare activities and the female multipurpose
worker scheme are the responsibility of the Joint Director, Family Welfare. To
bring program organization into line with GOI policy, the GWB has issued a
Government Order transferring responsibilities covering male multipurpose
workers, nutrition and EPI to the Joint Director, Family Welfare.
50.     Demand Generation.  Current figures indicate that in 1984 fewer than
30X of the eligible couples in West Bengal were protected by any modern con-
traceptive method. Much greater emphasis on demand generation will be neces-
sary if GOI's goals are to be achieved (see para. 35). The project would focus
on two separate but complementary approaches to stimulate demand for family
planning and MCH services: intensified IEC efforts in support of priority
interventions and the introduction of population education in selected influen-
tial groups and organizations. The flexibility required in a program that
seeks to change attitudes will be provided through strategies developed on an
annual basis. For this purpose, GWB will furnish detailed annual demand gener-
ation strategies to the Association for its review and comment no later than
two months prior to the start of each financial year (para. 1 of Schedule 2,
draft Project Agreement).
51.     Under the project, IEC activities would be strengthened in order to
(a) generate increased demand for the early acceptance of family welfare serv-
ices and smaller family size; (b) elicit the support of local opinion leaders
for the family welfare program; (c) integrate family planning communication
activities within the broader context of maternal and child health care; and
(d) coordinate the activities of Covernment departments and voluntary agencies
into a cohesive and well-directed demand generation program. A combination
of approaches-interpersonal communication, community education and
involvement, and mass media--will be used to deliver the messages, and their
effectiveness will be monitored and evaluated. Orientation training camps
(OTCs) will be held to provide basic information on family welfare goals and
services to panchayat officials, school teachers, private medical
practitioners, religious leaders and other village notables. Family welfare
messages will be distributed widely through a variety of mass media channels in
order to demonstrate to a wi-de audience the State's commitment to family
planning, to direct attention to service outlets and to provide a supportive
environment for the activities of family welfare staff. To ensure that the
above activities will be carried out effectively, the project provides for
essential additional staff, retraining programs, and study tours, as well as
necessary equipment, materials and vehicles.
52.     As a complement to IEC programs, population education activities will
be introduced to stimulate demand generation. Activities will be directed at
four groups among adults who play important roles in formulating comunity
opinions--college students and teachers, adult learners, industrial workers,
and panchayat members. Population education programs would be introduced in
private and government colleges, in rural literacy and workers' education



-18-
programs, and in panchayat organizations; these programs would reach a total
audience of more than 600,000 people. The project provides for additional
staff, equipment, furniture, materials, vehicles, and training as required, as
well as for the evaluation of activities.
53.     IEC activities are now carried out by two units in the Directorate of
HFW, the Mass Education and Media Division of the State Family Welfare Bureau
and the Bureau of Health Education. As both units have staff with similar
skills, who undertake similar functions, their roles are complementary. To
maximize their effectiveness, CWB will, by December 31, 1985, establish and
maintain a Coordinating Committee for the Mass Education and Media Division and
the State Bureau of Health Education, which will have membership, functions and
powers satisfactory to the Association (para. 7(a) of Schedule 2, draft Project
Agreement).
54.     Training.  There are sufficient facilities in the project districts
to train the additional female MPWs who will be required under the project.
The basic MPW training programs will be modified to incorporate project
strategies including priority approaches, MIES and training in IEC skills. To
improve the practical field content of training, the project provides for the
construction of training annexes at each of the 24 CECs in the project
districts. The project also provides for a school that will train 60 HAFs
annually, the establishment of a new 300-place GNM training school, and the
upgrading of existing GNM schools.
55.     In addition to project support for basic training, existing HFW staff
will receive in-service training to upgrade their professional skills and
ensure that prowram goals and strategies are clearly understood.  So that
significant gaps in the skills, knowledge, and practices of staff delivering
family welfare services can be identified, GWB will, by March 31, 1986, com-
plete a survey in the project districts to identify any significant gaps in
the skills, knowledge, and practices of family welfare staff, and promptly
thereafter furnish the results of the survey to the Association for review and
comments (para. 3 of Schedule 2, draft Project Agreement). The information
from the survey will be used to develop curricula for retraining courses and to
direct the attention of program managers to areas that need strengthening. GWB
will furnish to the Association for its review and comment annual curricula and
timetables for the retraining of staff in the project districts no later than
twro months prior to the start of each financial year (para. 4 of Schedule.2,
draft Project Agreement).
56.     In West Bengal, there is no family welfare in-service training facility
at the State level. To overcome this serious gap in the State's training
resources, the project would provide for the construction, equipping, furnish-
ing and staffing of a SIHFW on a State owned site at Salt Lake, a suburb of
Calcutta. The SIHFW will provide the State Directorate of HFW with a strong
and highly professional capability to improve the quality of staff and their
services, and to assist with planning, research, and information dissemination.
The Institute would be headed by an Additional Director of Health Services, who
would be supported by four deputy directors, responsible for training,
research, planning and field services, respectively. The outreach capacity of



-19-
the SIHFW will be strengthened by district training units and additional tra.
ing staff at the CHC training annexes in the project districts. To ensure that
qualified staff will be available in a timely manner, GWB will by June 30,
1986, appoint a nucleus of senior staff, as agreed with the Association, and by
March 31, 1988, fully staff the SIHFW, as agreed with the Association, and
thereafter maintain all such staff positions on a regular basis (para. 6 of
Schedule 2, draft Project Agreement). Given the time required to develop the
institutional capability of the SIHFW, it is expected to contribute only mar-
ginally to in-service training needs during the project period. However, by
the end of the project West Bengal could expect to have a well-established
SIHFW capable of playing a pivotal role in the planning and development of the
State's family welfare program.
57.     Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research.  The project will
strengthen the capacity of the State to monitor and evaluate program
performance. Under the proposed project, the MIES developed under the first
IDA-assisted project to facilitate the collection of performance statistics and
improve management planning will be introduced statewide in phases, starting
with the project districts. Its implementation will be facilitated by a series
of orientation and training sessions held from State through subcenter levels,
and by refresher training for field staff following the first six months of
operation. Plans for the introduction of a Statewide MIES were finalized
during project preparation. The Statistical Unit of the Family Welfare
Department will be responsible for implementation of the system.
58.     The lack of demographic parameters and related data by district is a
major program handicap in West Bengal and throughout India. So that program
achievements can be assessed quantitatively, critical demographic data will be
collected in a baseline survey of the project districts and a control district.
The information will be used to develop program strategies for the project
districts and to refine the project performance indicators; it will also be
used for final project evaluation. The project will also provide for opera-
tional research through a number of studies designed to assist program managers
in an ongoing evaluation of project implementation and program performance.
These studies will highlight existing problems and develop alternative
approaches for resolving them. In order to carry out the proposed monitoring,
evaluation, and operational research activities, the Demographic and Evaluation
Cell will be strengthened with additional staff at State and district level.
In addition, the efficiency and effectiveness of the two units now responsible
for statistical functions in the Department of HFW will be improved through the
establishment, by December 31, 1985, of a Coordinating Committee for the Family
Welfare Demographic and Evaluation Cell and the State Bureau of Health
Intelligence, which will have membership, functions, and powers satisfactory to
the Association (para. 7(b) of Schedule 2, draft Project Agreement). GWB will
also complete a midterm review of the progress of each project component and of
the performance of the family welfare program in West Bengal, with particular
reference to the selected districts, will furnish the results of the review to
the Association for comments by April 1, 1988, and will thereafter take all
necessary actions as agreed with the Association (para. 5 of Schedule 2, draft
Project Agreement).



-20-
Project Organization and Management
59.     GOI's MOHFW would oversee implementation of the proposed project.  In
West Bengal, a Governing Board of senior State officials, chaired by the Chief
Secretary, will meet quarterly to review the progress of the project and
program performance, ensure effective coordination, and resolve problems.
Supervision of day-to-day implementation will be the responsibility of a
Steering Committee, chaired by the Health Secretary, and including the Finance
Secretary, the Director of Health Services and project district
representatives. District steering committees will also be established.
60.     Overall project management will be entrusted to a Project Coordinator
in the office of the Secretary of Health Services, supported by an Additional
Director of Health Services, responsible for liaison with the Directorate of
HFW. Project officers will be appointed in each selected district to oversee
site selection and acquisition. When these functions have been completed, they
will be replaced by medical officers to assist with program implementation.
Project activities will be carried out as part of the ongoing program by con-
cerned government departments, which will be suitably strengthened to cope with
expanded project activities.
Project Costs and Financing
61.     The total project cost is estimated at US$84.4 million, net of taxes
and duties of about US$5.5 million. The indirect foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$7.2 million, or about 8X of total costs. Project costs would
be allocated among project components as shown in the cost table in the Credit
and Project Summary. Physical contingencies have been estimated on the basis
of experience with previous IDA-assisted population projects in India. They
amount to approximately US$2.1 million and are calculated on the basis of 5Z of
the base cost of civil works, furniture and equipment. Price contingencies
amounting to US$19.4 million are estimated on the basis of annual price
increases for local costs of 8.5Z per annum during the project period. For the
indirect foreign exchange component, contingencies of 5% for 1985, 7.5% for
1986, and 8% for 1987-1990 have been used.
62.     rhe proposed IDA Credit of US$51 million equivalent would finance about
60Z of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The balance of
US$38.9 million would be provided by GOI and CWB. The Credit covers 100% of
the foreign exchange costs and 57% of local costs, net of taxes and duties.
Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million has been provided for expendi-
tures incurred after November 5, 1984, for essential start-up activities.
After project completion, about two-thirds of total annual recurrent costs
would be met by the GOI. The GWB would provide the remaining third of recur-
rent costs, amounting to total annual incremental expenditures of approximately
US$2.75 million (at 1985-86 prices). These costs would constitute less than 1%
of the State's total projected expenditures on health and family welfare in
FY 1990-91 and could be absorbed in the GWB non-Plan budget without difficulty.



-21-
Procurement and Disbursement
63.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items would be procured
under the project. Civil works under the project would be small and widely
dispersed in tire and place and would not be suitable for ICB. These contracts
(US$39.4 million excluding contingencies) will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with GWB procedures acceptable to the
Association. In previous population projects difficulties have been
experienced in retaining contractors to work on small buildings in isolated
areas. Consequently, a proportion of the civil works (not more than 20%) would
be carried out departmentally.  In the interest of ensuring adequate main-
tenance and spares, vehicles required for the project amounting to US$ 2.1
million would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Similar
procedures would be used for the purchase of furniture made from indigenous
timbers suited to local climatic conditions. Contracts for furniture estimated
to cost less than US$25,000 each, up to an aggregate value of US$250,000, would
be made through prudent shopping based on at least three quotations. The
equipment required for the project consists mainly of a large number of items
of small value that usually cannot be packaged in lots large enough to attract
foreign suppliers. Where possible, however, equipment will be packaged into
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and be awarded
on the basis of ICB in accordance with IDA's procedures. A preference margin
of 15Z of the c.i.f. value of equipment procured under ICB would be granted to
local manufacturers in bid evaluation. Contracts for equipment below
US$100,000 equivalent each would be procured following LCB procedures accept-
able to the Association. Purchases of equipment below US$25,000 equivalent
would be through prudent shopping based on at least three quotations. The
aggregate value of such contracts is limited to the equivalent of Us$500,000.
Civil works and equipment contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject to prereview and approval by IDA.
64.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 75X of the cost
of civil works; 70% of the cost of furniture and vehicles; 100% of the cost
of directly imported equipment; 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufac-
tured equipment; 70% of the cost of locally procured equipment; and 50% of the
expenditures on staff salaries, materials, supplies and operating and main-
tenance costs. Disbursements against expenditures under contracts awarded
through ICB would be fully documented. All other disbursements would be made
against certified statements of expenditures to be supplied by GOI. Supporting
documentation would be retained by GOI for inspection by IDA during supervision
missions. Certified project accounts would be made available to the
Association within nine months after the close of each GOI fiscal year
(Section 3.01, draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
65.     The principal benefits of the proposed project are threefoLd:  the
delivery of improved services in the project districts, the strengthening of
the health and family welfare program at the State level, and the strengthening
of the program at the Central level.



-22-
66.  - At the district level, the principal benefit will be the provision of
expanded and improved family planning and maternal and child health services to
a rural population of 12 milLion, or some 20Z of West Bengal's population. By
improving the coverage of services and concentrating on specific program
strategies and a significantly expanded demand generation program, the project
is expected to help raise the level of contraceptive prevalence in the project
districts from its current average of about 332 to 49% by 1990 and 57% by 1992.
Deliveries attended by trained personnel will double, from about 30% to 60%;
and coverage for prenatal care, anemia, vitamin A prophylaxis, and immunization
of children under 5 should achieve the target of 85%.
67.     At the State level, the project would strengthen the capacity of the
Department of HFW to plan, implement and evaluate the provision of health and
family welfare services tbroughout West Bengal. Program perforniance will
become more efficient through improvements in data collection, analysis, and
forward planning; the management and delivery of IEC activities: the integra-
tion of all aspects of rural health; and the utilization of volurtary assis-
tance in the family planning field. The quality of health and family welfare
services will be improved through the provision of better and more appropriate
basic and in-service training. The effectiveness of the program will also be
iacreased through the development and design of specific operational
strategies, including the identification and treatment of high-risk mothers and
children, an emphasis on temporary contraceptive methods, and improved supervi-
sion of field staff. In addition, a mid-term review of program performance
will enable the revision and refinement of effective operational strategies
mid-way through the project period.
68.     The national program wil] benefit in a number of important ways.  The
est.blishment of the SIHFW represents a significant new direction in training
strategy that should provide a model for replication in other States. The
project will demonstrate to the GOI the effect on program performance of
expanded demand generation and monitoring and evaluation activities carried
out on a Statewide basis. The project will also provide, for the first time
in any State, experience in implementing the service delivery levels of the
Seventh Five Year Plan and thereby will enable GOI to assess their
appropriateness. In addition, given GOI's goal of reaching 60Z contraceptive
prevalerce by 2000, the project provides an opportunity to demonstrate the
effectiveness of current program strategies when applied to areas with con-
traceptive prevalence rates at or above national levels, and to test the
feasibility of reaching GOI's goal.
69.     The experience of previous Bank Group population projects in India and
the support that the project is expected to receive from GWB and the GOI MOHFW,
indicate that risks in project implementation can be expected to be minimal
Some difficulty is expected in gaining State program staff acceptance of the
project strategies, particularly the promotion of nonterminal contraceptive
methods, which is expected to be overcome through extensive staff orientation
and retraining. The higher proportion of disadvantaged communities in the
selected districts is expected to pose an additional problem, which will be
addressed in the formulation of annual operational strategies to be prepared
for the project districts. A final challenge will be in establishing a firm



-23-
institutional capability at the SIHFW. However, the considerable experience
available from several management and training institutes in West Bengal and
India can be used in developing the SIHFW. With the strengthening of the
State's ability to plan and implement more effective operational strategies,
together with the considerably expanded demand generation program and the
expansion of service coverage, it should be possible to raise contraceptive
prevalence in the project districts to projected levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement, between the Association and the State
of West Bengal, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
71.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
July 2, 1985



Page 1 of 5
TABLE SA
INDU                  - SOCIAL INDICArON DATA Sui
INDIA                               CONIC GUPS (WIgTE  AVzAGcs la
HDOST                    0T RCUT ESTDIAST) lb
RICCENT ~   ~        ~        IXDI LoDNMZm i  mm
196Ot     1970Lk    KitAA *                  ACIFIC        ASXA zrz PACI
TOTAL                               3287.6    3287.6      3287.6
ACRICUUA1.                          1763.5    1730.5    1312.2
CeP    CA     (US9)                      60.0     100.0      260.0            278.6                   1091.2
wF a_M             v CAPIT
(EflCRxMS OF OIL IRQIIVALEIT)         79.0     113.0       158.0           272.0                    567.3
XOAZ    AnI Lr   SUTISTC
POPILATION.HID-T"  CTUOUSABDS)    434569.0  547569.0   716985.0
URLAN POPULATION     Or TOTAL)        23.0      19.8        26.1            21.7                     34.7
PoPULATION POJEC SS
POPUATIO XN WEAR 2000 (IL)                               99.4
STYTIOsRt PoPULATXON (MIL)                              1707.2
POPULATC NOHENTUI                                          1.7
POPULATION vrENnl
PER SQ. IM.                        132.3     166.6       213.4           166.6                    261.9
PER SQ. a:  RL LAND                266.6     307.5       387.1           365.5                   1735.1
POPLATIO  ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 lRS                           60.9      42.7        39.3            35.8                     39.0
15-64 YNS                           54.5      54.2        57.6            59.8                     57.6
65 AND AIO                           4.6       3.1         3.1             4.3                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTI RATE (Z)
TOtAL                                1.l       2.3         2.2             1.9                      2.3
LUS                                  2.5       3.3         3.9             4.1                     4.3
CQmE BIRTH RATE (PER WOUS)            47.7      41.4        34.2            27.7                     30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOS)           23.8      17.8        12.7            10.1                     9.5
CROSS REPROIUC2TI  RATE                2.9       Zl8        2.2              1.8                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNI
ACCEPTORS. ANNIAL (THOUS)           64.0    37S2.0      6826.0
USERS (l OF M6RtIED Ult)              .-      11.7        28.0              .                      52.7
FMO AID IWUERXli
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         98.0     102.0       101.0           112.8                   123.0
PE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRDIENTS)        96.0      91.0        86.D            97.7                    114.4
PROTEUDS (GRAMS PeR DMt)            54.0      50.0        46.0            56.8                     57.0
OF UIICH ANDIAL AND PULSE         17.0       15_0       13.0 /c         14.9                     14.1
CRUD (AGS 1-4) DEATH RATE             26.2      20.7        11.0             9.8                     7.2
LIFE EXECT. AT BIRIH   AlARS)         42.5      47.5        54.6            60.0                    60.4
-NFAr MlORT. RATE (PER TIOUS)        165.0     139.0       94.0             83.8                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (2POP)
TOTAL                                 ..      17.0        33.0 Id         32.9                     37.0
URBAN                                 ..      60.0        80 7;d          70.9                     54-B
RURAL                                 ..       6.0        20.0 7;9        22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRELA DXSPOSAL
tS OF POPULATION)
TOtAL                                         18.0        20.0 Ie         I.1                      61.3
URBA                                  ..      85.0        87.0 7V         72.8                    47.4
RuRA                                 ..        1.0         2.07T           4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4850.0    4B90.0     3690.0 If        3484.2                  7749.4
POP. PERt NURSING PERSON           10980.0  L 7420.0     5460.0 7F        4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PER HOSPrIAL BED
TOTAL                             21SO.0    1650.0      1290.0 If       1066.5                   1064.2
RWAN                                  ..        ..       370.0 /d        m.0                      651.2
RURAL                                      ..           14ioo.0 7       5"3.4                    2594.6
AIaSSXONS PER HOSPIL NED                ..        ..          ..              ..                     27.0
-SING
AMENCE SIZE OF DUSEOD
TOTAL                                5.2       5.6         5.2 e,
URBAN                                5.2       5.6        4.87'
ROAL                                 5.2       5.6         5.37.
ACEAMHO. OF PENSONSIROW
TOTAL                                2.6       2.8
-  tN                                2.6       2.8
RURAL                                2.6       :.
ACCESS TO ELET. CZ OF UIELLINGS)
.tOAL                                 ..                    .
~~~~NmN..    ,.'-.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A   L E  3A
INDIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHeE
INDIA                               RERNCE COUPS (CEZONTED AVEDS) /a
HOST                    (HOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /
REcENr             LOW IJICUS           HXDER 1160065
I 96O,    1970&!    ESTIMATE.         ASIA 4 PACIFIC        ASIA 4 PACIFIC
ADJusTeD ENROLUMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                     61.0       73.0       79.0            97.4                    102.0
MALE                     80.0       90.0        93.0           110.5                    105.9
FREKAL                   40.0       56.0       64.0             83.7                     91L2
SECONMAY: TOTAL                     20.0      26.0        30.D            35.9                     46.0
mALE                      30.0      36.0        39.0            U 6                      48.7
FE3IUE                   10.0       15.0       20.0             26.8                    43.1
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONARY)             2.8       1.0         0.7 Ie          2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PIMARY                              46.0      41.0        54.0            38.5                     31.8
SECONDARY                           16.0      21.0          ..            18.7                     23.5
AWULT LITERACY RATE (1)               27.8      34.1        36.2            53.4                     72.9
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSANO POP            0.6       1.1         1.4 lh          0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP           4.9      Zl.5        43.6           ll12I                    113.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.0       0.0         1.7            15.7                     50.1
NEWSPAPE ("DAILY CENERAL
IITEREST") CIRCULATIO
PZL TOUSMID POPULATION              10.6       16.2       19.6 A           16.2                    53.9
CIIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2       6.2         3.7 K           3.6                      3.4
TOTAL L1  PORCH (t2OUS)           185951.0  219194.0   282169.0
7E103  (PERCENr)                    30.7      32.5        31.8            33.3                     33.5
ACRICULTRE (PERCENT)                74-0       74.0       71.0            69.6                     52.2
ENDWSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0      11.0        13.2            15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RAZE (PERCENr)
TOTAL                               42.8      40.0        39.4            42.6                     3B.7
MAlZ                                57.0       52.4       52.0            54.7                     50.9
FEMALE                              27.3      26.9        25.9            29.8                     26.6
EONUIIC EPENDENCY RArIO                1.1       1.1         1.1             1.0                      1.1
INURI DES7UIMITTO
PERCENr OF PRIVAUE INCU
REcErVED BY
HIGrSr 5 OF HDUSEDHLDS              26.7      26.3 /1    22.2 Ie          22.2                     22.2
IGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7       48.9 Ti    49.4 Ia         48.0                     U8.0
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1        6. 7 T     7.0 7c          6.4                      6.4
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6       17.2 71    16.2 7;         15.5                     15.5
r  TnA eO
ESTIKhTED ABSOLUTE POVERT  DIC
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UJAN                                  ..         ..      132.0 /h        133.9                    1U.6
RURAL                                 ,.        ,.       114.0 7ir       111.6                    152.0
ESTIATED RELATIE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (1S$ PER CAPITA)
URnaN                                  .        .            .                                    177.9
RURAL                                 ..        ..          ..              ..                    164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVErTY I100 LEVEL (Z)
m"                                    ..        ..        S0.3 lb         43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                 ..        ..  X    50.7 Ih          51.7                     37.7
. Nm AVAILAE
or APPLICABLE
VOT E S
/a  The group average for each ndicator are poptlatioe-weigbted arithmtic means. Coerag of countries among the
indicators depends on avlability of data and le not uniform.
lb  UDles otherwise noted. "Data for 1960E refer to an year betwe  1959 and 1961; "Data for 197V0 betwetn 1969 ed
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimate' between 1980 and 1982
/c  1977; Jd 1976; Ie 1975; /f 1978;  a 1962; /h 1979; /L 1966-65.
.iEm 1986
,t.J.     .     -



p  31.1: ala         @                      le 2         3
M      ft- 0 - 5*3l22 3-331322            T*W3   .33    20
_         3 _  2 L ;   _         t-    P-SO  JW     V
-       _      3    -       A 3t-1;-
332312to"                                            q 3231w - .   -cs -d
- .n      "WM~ 110*1wPT~ -  AP ....             122--J   312-
_ SW        2 q      J-     2      1.3
2333 3-              -w   .0S.*. J-Wno 3312332                                       'our12d-14  -IT  -m P--V
33122-~ J"  22t3          *-a2 .                                                              5 J.      2 r  3232 t-    1 W   I no         13-
- _3131 31_ 3_ a- _2P I - (           .-13-v
_         3-                m-A Avt-mas                                                                           -SP-?  *_ _1 3    (3  1   _  -  3  3  W
-t- 3 '_2 -' 1-m m3-3  *.                       ,.,,         -3.1"
ift   0--W.-  _o         31  _-   _2.3d _H _3d                                  _                               Iw;_1 2  t? _  _- 511  ;-  331-1
-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~s P----- t--" _t-                                              Atp_-I-       - 1--     sa                      -S
p-   A -d S             S3.231 52-   a-   ~          MIa -1 .31.303                            1- 2.19 Z --.!0-.  -W.
332W -   *1..3922.222113..1 -a31 121.121  *3   t-y                            3.32.3.35 -m    - 1*    - 3  210   -  9 _as -* J-3 *   _ _
4 -                        21        _*-t--3   _ tt-1- 2     a          t        3 3 _   *3 t_33 J 3*1-1-_ *21A  31 1223  13-W 3 2 _W13
__ 3.33               20.3 _-       1 _ _W  31133 32a3.                                     31003*3-1F 013 211-_ 0 - 33123    *p-p-  *aze
_' 9--" Ot 3392 '--                                                                                  OF1W A U P 14 ''_ _id 2133.2  t :   1
31 %12231~ Aa.2  1 -r_  tWa20  1 -e 4l          iW       j           _      ( 3     33-  p1331  _ _ _-W     _-   -s 3
c ---SW As                                                        -d~~~~~~~31.3    a. 2-    VU-ft~3141233    3     2~a
353313.3        3-3.31292314l M.2t P-* was                   V131.22-12W
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ "I *m I-t0-^    v -_-_l-i -Bgt- F-Sm_- I    ' _qP-A
33 31 go09 22-24 St  T32_-   -_   .- et 2- 
24~~131332 ~   ~      -3                   3) -- 31  323-13 21-33 1133  91     3
9- ft n~d -  J. -s-   --t ftlma.              I-   'Pm 21230t  t123- 31da .t2122  33~ 331 .S."9 v-
*62     P-"     t31 -a   --Ptot   - us?  -J-313    333129 =J = -                     31-  -ma-  315.3.3.3233323123
iv-~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ am_ -irO  -"-                                  ez _ WMJ 2          1...a       -*@*d
2       3'w ea - _           _           3r 'T  - _                                                                                  low m:  _  _3-2    n   _   3_   t- _ _ 1 1_*i_
..lot _-            _        6  "- 'WM    E S-tr   ._ J-pd&-T--       -
3L13.1223 1W  --M3333113   3 I-        -    2   2323                              p 1.34 31*   %m  P  32 9- *q3313 - .313  33  3  p.     r 313 31-A
p-  33t131 2          -         _ .- 3--I  S _3m ' n.-.3--                                              "WI2. *_~ 21 31 23     P--
MV:Ip  ag_ l_  U_-  -on _-  _| 9-                  "-        a        _        .  P   &.__        =asp          J.4 _" _-_-          q; p R- .-
P- * mns"     -A !.=                                 m,31m  9-                                 3          1    94 31       _     _
~~~~~~~~-  nu p - *ts  _  Sq*w w -___
Nt -- 31s-    *a--            't-.. .a .qa-                                     -SP-J  ...~.        -M -uww P.a   n,o c-  3Pd3 - ~.ma
233 323 .3 1_ _t_ _B3  _3-  .323 1O. 13 _m3 4 _ _3.1              [ _ 2*_            1331      _ 3)           ,1    Al .X_       a
3-h11332-1  112225 -.5215-   33322- 3 3- 2 -                                  31 312.f  -J2    23321   22            W P.1    3,41
22239 2233 _10*3,  mt 1.35.12-a                                    _1 2    -*_ * "        f         r.
~~~~~~~~~-m- -9%                                               P-3    a- -*~    - *-  _ _1_ -    w  w-    J
3131.311-a    11-l3 -13321t _33   1 2ss1 33 W3 2        _
-__ _  '-t m         Ua;-             -I     I-   _-li                               -Ml         _l        -4      -     _
A-w5   32 A                              I _  -  3 -,, ,-
.8-                                                                                         -W~~~~~~m2  32.  311 33t1.3      33   232 it I22-    --ilt   1
-    11m. .-2.212.A    _3 -31331222  -31 212      3-33   32-                                                                          -
5-2AL -31---   9331F-                                                                                     --P 321 12 3331  U-233.34  1- 131313  1131C2 233135 113135I.
_ t  ..W- -=         1A _   3-13   313v ... WA-3--...-F -_ .._                                                              -J -.       .3
3135t-a.3 31  -a ~331233. 22 1311      P-11 .W 23 - W1t                                          --                                2331 d
b~~~~~A   _" I-                  -_ - a-W                              -_ Pw 1----    s1_ -_m   ."      r -      _     a     I_r.
22322334  - 331p                           T -21   .    2.2.3 232.23223   213* *32  32 919. 3                m-1231-23 3332332222
312331-aJ 3-Ad  -                     -".a   Im~  -1                                             -Z.-0*MI3234  1 P-  3131311  .22-01    . ....
.3*13331 2-- 2353 33131.31332 3-                             - 31 311  3  32W113 W3.- 9.3-  I33 ;9!-m3
*13- '5 *.=13133  t233*22 3-_i _15212-                                                                         31.3          21393  tml-W_ 
2 a3W.  .33-_ t-     - -J                                                       312952.r  33-_  21.313-  33la                    221W_ _ 3313.  
___ t _ .X_ - _ _ _ t _-J                                .                       __ --- '    A-_ ' -     gv-s e
-W  3   16-5 -        "I_   -111 23 _-         3          -I-.3 _-3--  go- 31__                   12I h                          2 -
31331               1-31--1            23'.3133        1-                        -            -  1 -   3--            -2 k_ 31 
,.   _,,,_  ,, q _ q sA _  r-
_I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -_w   I-                                                             A_lU _  1_._   _. - _ 0-   P_ a 
=_931 125         33 _13 11-_ 3        3-_ 3       3  _1     2 11 _                        _          bI  31         ) ' 22 =l  3              .1
_1 *_3323322 323-3231 339.3233 '3-121 31_3WI        3312W _W                          _21- t 31 _33 *03_3 12P3I-2A
1-=- Al-A3 _                                 T-5  P-- -221 (3 12              3.3 -  s3gI
-_~~~~2  _. --A If __ B. _ll- "I'ad                     _     P          -_1 1-   A,'-
--J  ftw-"-                   -1-8                              -"~-   3) 3.-31 M  13  11332312 133332223   1  3323
S tbn~~~~~~~~~~ _ _ h} "n~~~~~~~~~~~~~- t13 31 31 SIt 2311 U
*33....  A.-""     3 90  3331   11223. 2212WI332.1 P... .3.                                          -  1"' j- -3-" 331t33.   2.3 2221
3.-I -  3                            I--33 33131  -3 _-                _I_3 -2-' -3      P '1_3
l_* 1       1 -_ 3123            -M92  __1 _ __-   3--1A d32 2-2
-I -  nj t    -  A- - -       _- ''.      t V -*s_  _-tt-                                                                W-*    _l" ~
-3 p - 3322 3 3 *3 21 -41-3t 31        -2 _-23 3           1                -                                _            22 _S  1 -
P-W                 Aq1 3   1 33-2 I5 w     _13                                             --V3t3-W  131 315 12-2  2    . _5 _ t a--3
.1--a V. -1- 11-M  ..    -v--a4m2s-3-                                             21 *2t-  31  *W r33  .3 _ _ _- _      0*   _       -__
.333 _132323321  3311  *3332   13    *_21                                     31W  33333331 ' ''-_ *3233.3  21d |Xt  -<-
43_ I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_ -o*--  ASI-'1 P- "._ s-  J-* ____
-.33.3313233 31314 31.210*52 2133531)   -_l_ 323123- --1 .-2   _         3331 _33-33432 2. 3_3l  211I 3s 33225.3l 3
11-2  331_* -    1-_-_ .3-1 W-33  325- _3-~ 41932                       _        32.32  233122 31 333321-12  932(22  t2 r
31 23-122155212.3.31233323  2)*   33All3 a3 3-33 0- I" 12 31321 = 12321321  313 2T3.3113-l
_t-13                 "1.  t~  _-_ -S             j-                     0_tte _.  -_  R.  *  _to    _* __-d *L -. s-- _ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-"a- __                                                                 ,-W -i-t__1e    ._-Xll_S naPA-   t _-t *-- __ 
312121*3-*23  *33-523131313532332-310d32- 3_3- 12. 1w  p-3 A33                                      - .1.3 p121   P. 0 3__A32 22 3
.331 23qI4233.I" 13  22(9WMS 312                                                       - 5339321   -2331-             _    3-- t -  *   313 1
,-"-a 13313 3-3P22132    2 _ -_ _t t1 l9 _                                                       , _3   _
*1211 5 I   11 _- 1232 L 4    32 t _3 t- 23s               22212222 2153313-31311 2131.331G 3is3 2a31v - t-o3
.-SaIll-A   S, 'o- p"'"I " "W"          'MS    3322d-.22 1313-    -21121311 1A1p.V-235  312.33-  p
- 0   n -  - -  -"- - ~w a Z-.3ww      s-W   _                      - t *-3 3 1-12 -    3--  tn.3- 0_21   A2            - * -
r -~ %am   W__- w--"                       'pm     r__ _
.2  _ -1  3-" 33                                             i"-  1        -13_ 31    2   1   r  _13 3--- p   -t- 31435    233  3  W
P-           2233231    1.2P T--W  -lSp  *          1.1 "    ~                          a *_ _      *3- _33 W  *51 _3d- 3 1                      s ---, -
W" tn".% J. -2 -                1 1       W   12        2 -      -V                      0l                      - - -
33-                s..             .-          53 ^ l .32  S                                                                      _stt_* 
~~  ~~~        ~~~z                             31 *    *    33           -        3.          31~~~~~~~0,lft  P   M
*_aw_a _ - ~~ j lwta * * t b_ sOKI_"m -1 w-  d -"_Mn %M" 0  -Xa-  -s' _
.-   -_  *--                                                                 ate__*  w _   Ur -..  J- A_   _     p-  _       =       8-W -groan
n1__  i.           Al-1 , 3 -                                                                                                       I_ *- 1    I 3  *
_1   3393.23232  1355_2a_*a03   _23 *311  S_3  3133                         .323    3291a 31 221.     *--221  mi33p  _1 -~  122   __9
ll--" on- r- -l *-I |-                    lt
SW-"~~~~~~~~_| P                                               *_-s- As *WI  Sa  _a                           (-Wb *_ - i _@
p-  A.   mi 3--  -154   . 33.33123  - A. -' 312133322 1221                    132 311"P-2A.-210* 332235- -213  231 2311
_   = _   -F-1 *1- - _-1P-*_ 2_-  _9413    l _               -    -s-3                             _ - -    t    - -          % -   -M    d
11 3_42-ww21  -a 13   1     _2 1_33_. .. ,. 35 1 132                                                                         31 _   _1-331   43223
_~~~~~M  -a  -"   ._   _ BaS                               a _l__ _ l-Rqamm 44_ _   -111    *_  _"WP  """P-1 P W" _0 P   -" - q _w_
d332-3-2  .23-23              am2 Pm13 31 23331F-_ 222-   _      _S31- a-2  no 1  *A1  l - *        _ 1   q-2 2 3-         m11  * - _3  '
s 3ro 3  Sawa  - .31
I xillL



Pe4s 4 Of S
uCoNMc DuVnWtrUU BDTA
GN k PCAPIrA 13 19 -13260  a/
GROSS DOM C PRUOOCT II 1983B4 bl                                           ANNUAL RATE OF COWES CZ. Constant Prices) 
- 55156-59140  6016141K65  6S1E-f69t70 70/71-7417S 75176-79180 801S41 82L
US$ sin.    S
CDP at Narket Prle.            189.81    100.0                   3.7          3.6          3.7        2.9          4.1         5.1
Gross Domstic InveXtent          45.94      24.0
Gross Natioal Saving             43.17      22.7
Current Account Balance          -2.17      -1.5
OUTPIIT 1.3AO FORCE AM PIODlCITY IV 1981
Value added (at factor cost)     Labor Fore il   V.k. Per Worker
IISS Un.               S         NMi.                     Z U   of  altional Average
Azriculture                      52.5                  35.9       172.7    70.6   5304         51
Industry                         34.5                  23.6        31.6    12.9   1092        183
Services                         59.2                  40.5        40.3    16.5   1469        246
TotalLAverage                   146.2                 100.D       244.6   100.0    598        10
COVE FIDWJCE
General Covement el                              Central Covernmt
Us. Bin.           Z of GDP                  Rs. BDin          S of GOP
l983/84     1983/84   1979 N0-193/           1983/8      1983/84    1979/-198-53784
Current Receipts                 378.54        19.3           19.5            201.67        10.3           10.3
Current Expenditures            397.12         20.3          19.4             225.42       11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/Deficit         -18.58         -1.0           0.1             -23.75       -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures fJ         149.66          7.7           8.0             114.lZ        5.8             5.8
External Assist (ce (nt) d/      19.16          1.0           1.1
)1UE. CREDTI AND PRICES          1970/71  1975/76  1978179 1979/84  1980/81  1981182 1982/83  1983/84 Janua  1984 January 1985
(Rs Biion outstanding at end of erind)
Money and Quai Mney              109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9          835.1        993.9
Bank Credit to Government (net'   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7          403.1        483.9
Bank Credit to Corcial Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7             575.5        685.0
(Percentage or Index nubers)                       A pr-Jan 83/84   April-Jan 84/85
Money and qu0as Money as A S
Of CDP                         27.3      30.3    41.1    64.1    43.7    42.5    44.5  - 44.0
Wholesale Prie Indez
(1970/71 - 100)               100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2           313.6           336.7
Asnual Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Pric1 Index              7.7     -1.1      -      17.1    18.2       9.4      2.6     9.2        9:2             7.4
Bak Credit to Cowermut (net)   15.0        Z2.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3           16.9-.          Z3.2 h/
B:ak Credit to Comercial Sector  19.4      22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    1B.7           13.8 &          15.6 h/
aJ The per capita GNP estmatc is at market prices, using  orld BDnk Atlas methodology. base pedrod 1981-83.
All other conversions tc dollars In thls table are at the *verap exchange rate prevailing du-rng the period cweered.
b/ Quick Entimtes, Central Statistical Oraneftion.
cl Computed Erom trend line of CUP at factor cost series, iucluding one obserwatin bef*e Efist year end one observation after
Last year of listed period.
dl World Bak estimtes of net disbursenet of concessional aid and 78.
e/ Tranfeis between Centre and States have bemn netted out.
f  All loans ad advnrc to -tbid pertis bae been netted out.
J Percentage chane from end-March 1983 to eud-Jan.84.
hl Percentage chnge fro  end-rch 1984 to end-Jan.85.
if Total Labor Force nnd peremntage breakdomn from I981 Cenus. Excludes data for Asam.



rose 3 of 5
1/          1.
BALANCE OF PATIIESS                   1911/2    1982/43    1983/34       1966,85       DIDCAIIE   OIITS (AVEC  19SOt81-1983/S4) g/
(US$ mIn.)                                                                                                             uS ma. I
Exportu of Coods gf                     3.519      a,290       *,355       3.724       Esginerwig Coeds                IllS      13
lcporta of Goads gl                   -15.301    -14.290     -14,040    -14.501        Toe                              469       6
Trde Balance              .           - 6.7      - 4,000     - S.65      - 5.777       C_                              1O09      12
uFS (nec)                               1.002        935         943       1,098       Claohing                         Uaa       a
Latbhr ad leather Products    343          4
RIeouret  Balane                      - 5,7SO    - 5.065     - 4.737     - 4,678       Jute NMaufactures                269       3
IromOre                         400        5
Interest Incom  (net) k/                  350    -  302      -   66'    -   765        Cotton Textiles                  316       4
Net Transfers 1/     -                  2.317      2.504       2.830       2.930       Sugar                            104       1
Others                          3704      44
Balance on Current Account            - 3,113    - 2.S63     - 2.521     - 2.533
Direct Xnvestment                          10         65          62          61
Total                           8417    lO1
Officel Loans & Grants (ne)             1,661      1,901       1,961       1,944
Crosn Disbursements                     2,269      2,513       2.578       2.585       EXTERAL DEBT. HAWN 31. 1984
Amortization                             5S8         612         617         641
U1S$ billion
Private Borrowng (net)                    338        366         5Z8         844
Outstanding and Disbursed                 21.5
lbn-Resident Deposits                     260        573         903         600       Undisbursed                               10.4
Transaction with VlF (net)                690      1.9oO       1.295          70       Outstanding inluding Undisbursed          31.9
All other Item  a                     -2.264    -1,522       - 1,347       -683
Increase In Reserves C-)                2,398    -   504     -   882       - 303       DUN  SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983/84 If nl      13.6 per cent
Cross Reserves (end year) p/            4,461     4.965        5,847       6,150
Net Reserves (end year)mr               3.497      2.089       1.697       2,250
Fuel and Related Materials
US S millon
Imports (Petrolaum) gI                  5.553     4,614        2,983       3.026                                            ERD       IDA
of which: Cruds                       3.921      3,139       2.183       1.015
Products                    1,632      1,475         NOO       2,D10       Outstading and Disbursed             2.158   8.902
Undabu.se.d                          4,326    3.748
Outstandilng Including Undisbursed    6,484   12,650
RA.TE OF EICRAZIGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971    :  US$1.00 - Bs 7.50
Re 1.00 - US50.13333
Mid-December 1971 to and-June 1972:  US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - USSO.137376
After end-June 1972               :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-Mrch 1934           :  US$1.00 - Rs 10.71U
Rs 1.00 - US50.0933
Spot Rste end-March 1985          :  US$1.00 - Rs 12.3457
Is 1.00 - usso.0810
I   stited
k/ Figures give  cover s1 ivent rc-  C(pu). Major paments are Interest on foreign loas and charges padd to DIP,
i ajor receipte Is interest earned on foreign sent.
1/ Figures given Include workers' rmttances but exclude offcial g   t assistance which is included within official los
and grants, and nec-residt deposits which are show  separately.
.1 Exclude net ue of 3IV credit.
n/ Amortization sd interest psyats an foreign loans en a percentage of total current receipts.
oI Includes exchage rrate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and finenciog of iubalancea in rupee trade.
/ Frluding geId.
N Net ol petroleum exports



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Aunroval       Purpose                         Bank        IDA 11     Undisbursed ]/
52 Loans/                                            2,379.0          -
96 Credits fully disbursed                               -        5,589.2           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -          30.0          6.06
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development         -          18.0          0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -           14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0          -            3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0           8.05
682-rN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0           1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -          12.0           6.34
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -            1.90
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -          107.0         32.50
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           4.85
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0          -            1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power        105.0          -            0.02
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                 -          117.6         30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -          200.0         23.31
806-IN    1978     Jaau-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries             -           17.5          7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -           16.0          2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII             120.0          -            7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -          150.0         27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -          196.0        119.03
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0          14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -           38.0          3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -           27.0         11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0          0.40
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -          30.0           0.18
874-IN    1979     Rnagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          0.06
1648-IN    1979     Raagtundam Thermal Power            50.0          -           45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -          129.0         26.82
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -           48.0          0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -          175.0          3.25
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II            -          210.0         25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry           -           37.0          2.70
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0         14.41
98'1-IN    1980    Population II                        -           46.0         23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -           32.0         16.81
-1011-IN   1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          84.89
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -           22.0         14.74
1027-IN    1980     Sidgrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0        124.04



Page 2 of 4
US$ nillion
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
o.     k      nAroval   Purpose                        Bank        IDA jj      Undisbursed 31
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural ExtensioAn                  10.0           6.28
1033-rn    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -          56.0          15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                           54.0          24.87
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -           80.0          44.81
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   99.2         -            3.96
1053-IN    1980     Parakka Thermal Power                -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -           18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0           9.75
1078-rN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -          83.0         35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     H.P. Medium Irrigation               -         140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecocaunications VII              -         314.0          71.66
1116-In    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -          54.0         33.13
1125-IN    1981     lazira Fertilizer Project            -         399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil ladu Agricultural Ext.         -          28.0          14.27
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0         23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0         62.87
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -         400.0         243.01
1177-IN    1982     Nadhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -         220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nads Nevsprint               100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -          25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982     iciCI XIv                          150.0         -           44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II        300.0         -           264.07
1219-IN    1982     Andbra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.   -             6.0          4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           248.98
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -          72.0         57.11
1286-IN    1983     Jarnu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry           -           33.0         22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madbya Pradesh               -           -
Irrigation II                     -           31.0         17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -         127.0         101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5         -           121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    -          200.0        167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railvays Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -          197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Earyana Irrigation II                -         150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II             -         101.0          87.73
1356-IN   -1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -         170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -           156.01



>                                                                   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Asuroval       Purnose                        Bank         IDA Ij     Undisbursed ;J
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -          147.0        128.60
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         24.45
2308-IN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization       22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission         250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Hinalayan Watershed Management      46.2          -           45.82
2329-IN    1983     Nadhya Pradesh Urban                24.1          -           23.80
1397-IN    198I     Orissa Irrigation II                 -          105.0         76.24
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -           31.0         29.14
1426-IN    1984     Population III                                   70.0         65.63
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -           27.0         21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0          -          247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0          -          150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5          -          241.90
2415-IN    1984     Nadhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6          -          200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Garga Irrigation               -          125.0        116.47
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Nedium Irrigation            -          172.0        145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railvays Electrificatiou*          280.7          -          280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8          -          300.80
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4          -          157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*        -          129.8        129.80
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power*      135.4          -          135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -          36.5          34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -         220.0        205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry               -           31.8         30.33
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I*         -           39.1         39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*            -          138.0        138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1,269.9       194.6
Total nw  outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -      __ - --
Total now held by Bank and IDA ]/       5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,575.90    3,333.48
11  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
21 Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       .0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3     13.1
1964            Laksimi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -      15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0        -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.3        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.           18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5        -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -       8.1
1984            The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      3.5         -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          8.9       0.8      9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.         -            20.5        -      20.5
1985            Modi Cement                          12.0        -      12.0
TOTAL GROSS COIMTTMENTS       251.9       12.9    264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales          139.1        6.2    145.3
Now Held                   112.8        6.7    119.5
=ndisbursed  72.8   7
Undisbursed                 72.8        0.8     73.6
i =; . - -   .   .=                                 == - 



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
The Government of West Bengal with assistance from
the GOI Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
March 1984, June 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 5, 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1985.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
r
Section III:    Special Conditions
The GWB would:
(a) Take all measures necessary to appoint the required
number of Health Assistants Female (para. 46);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Furnish annual demand generation strategies
(para. 50);
(c) Establish a Coordinating Comittee for IEC functions
(para. 53);
(d) Undertake a survey to identify gaps in the skills,
knowledge, and practices of family welfare staff
(para. 55);
(e) Furnish annual curricula and timetables for staff
retraining (para. 55);
(f) Provide qualified staff for the SIHFW (para. 56);
(g) Establish a Coordinating Committee for statistical
functions (para. 58); and
(h) Undertake a mid-term review of the project (para. 58).



ANNEX rv
Procurement Arrangements 1/
Components            ICB             LCB             Other          Total Cost
~~ - (US$ M)_ 
Civil Works               -            39.4 (29.6)         -            39.4 (29.6)
Furniture                 -             1.9  (1.3)         -             1.9  (1.3)
Equipment                1.5 (1.5)    .0.6                 -             2.1  (1.5)
Vehicles                  -             2.1  (1.5)         -             2.1  (1.5)
Salaries                                  -              15.3  (7.6)   15.3  (7.6)
Materials, Supplies,
Operating and
Maintenance Costs        -             7.5  (3.8)         -             7.5  (3.8)
TOTAL                1.5 (1.5)    51.5 (36.2)        15.3  (7.6)   68.3 (45.3)
if Excluding contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts fina.=:ed by the
Association.
;



IBRD 1866
7W              ~~~~~PRADESH
%
.3V  PAKISTAN       1-dPUNJAB  4 l.
HARYANA&
-/ .                      N E PA A           B R
L..'UTTAR PRADESH                      CS_r_  M   BHUTAN
RAJASTHAN    *a        :  ;'
'Fl                  I. <-7  {'/t  'BIHAR    '( BANGLADESH
_<0    >        ?-,9 \t BhW                                         1
^ ;  k   GUJARAT     1w,                         
-. Gliuaqj                 9     MADHYA PRADESH                "i )
- ;, e-ORI SSA
MAHARASHTRA
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,#\ =- 
Bombay                                   rBy   f  ena
ANDHRA
PRADESH 
-                             PO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUL.ATiN  ROETriV
-    praecLar~TJGdWPai ddr6
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ANTK . .~ .M
TAMIL NADUSNslaslcplal-
StCab-dOnuM  Wrltor bandsIe
.~~~~~~~ ,:- =4&0'Z~   ;
C ~~ u.-~~ SRI
7' ' ..LAN;A
~~~~~~~~~~~3.:.






