OFFC'IAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1623 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Population Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1623 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of West
Bengal with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State of West
Bengal the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of West Bengal;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the State of West Bengal of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "WB" means the State of West Bengal, a State of India;
(c) "Project Districts" means the areas comprising the
districts of Bankura, Birbhum, Bardhaman, and Puruliya in WB;
(d) "PHC" means Primary Health Center;
(e) "CHC" means Community Health Center;
(f) "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
(g) "SIHFW" means State Institute of Health and Family
Welfare; and
(h) "$" means dollars in the currency of the United States.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-one million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 51,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-3-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1995, and ending
February 15, 2035. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause WB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of WB
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable WB to perform such


﻿-4-
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to WB in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangement for development assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by WB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) WB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the  Development Credit Agreement, an     extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
WB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci--
fied, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and WB.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by WB, and is legally bind-
ing upon WB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is dtsigaated as represent.tive of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
MIinistry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By    S    AK/CTc
y      IAuthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELUPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                            O
Regional Vice President


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               29,900,000        75%
(2) Equipment                  1,500,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Furniture and              2,800,000        70%
vehicles
(4) Staff salaries             7,700,000        50%
(J) Haterials, sup-            3,800,000        50%.
plies, operating
and maintenance
costs
(6) Unallocated                5,800,000
TOTAL        51,500,000


﻿2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from tne territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawa's shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures pzior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expen-
ditures before that date but after November 5, 1984.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the further development and implementation of its voluntary
family welfare program and the attainment of its population goals
in WB.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modification, thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Service Delivery:
The construction, refurbishing, or provision of rental
accommodation, where necessary, of subcenters, new PHCs, old
PHCs, CHCs and maintenance workshops; provision of furniture,
equipment and vehicles; incremental staff; and maintenance of
equipment and vehicles to extend and improve the coverage of
family welfare services in four districts.
Part B:   Demand Generation:
(i) Provision   for   community  education,   IEC  materials
including the production, printing and distribution of
films, incremental staff, furniture and equipment, and
the replacement of vehicles; staff retraining and study
tours to support service delivery activities and gene-
rate demand for family welfare services; and
(ii) Provision for allowances for trainers, operating costs
of lectures and seminars; material production, incre-
mental staff, furniture, equipment and vehicles to
introduce population education in B.Ed. and teacher
training   colleges,  workers'   educational  programs,
panchayat organizations and adult education groups in
order to involve communities in the family welfare
program and reinforce demand generating activities.
Part C:   Training:
The construction, furnishing and equipping of one SIHFW, one
general nurse midwife training school, one supervisor training
school, and field training annexes; incremental staff; operating


﻿- 10 -
and maintenance costs and vehicles to provide basic training for
incremental staff and systematic retraining to upgrade profes-
sional skills throughout WB.
Part D:   Monitoring and Evaluation:
Introduction of a managment information and evaluation
system throughout WB, including incremental staff, equipment and
vehicles; longitudinal sample surveys and operational research to
monitor and evaluate Project and program performance as well as
indicate new approaches.
Part E:   Project Management:
Provision of furniture, equipment and vehicles and incre-
mental staff required to implement the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1990.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


