CREDIT NUMBER 1623 IN
OFFICGA
Project Agreement
(Fourth Population Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
Dated                              , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1623 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the
STATE OF WEST BENGAL (WB), acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 51,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that WB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrange-
ments for developmental assistance to the States of India, the
proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to WB; and
WHEREAS WB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) WB declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public health


﻿-2-
and WB family planning practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, WB shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement among the Borrower, the Association and WB.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. WB shall carry cut the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) WB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)  WB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by WB of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenant
Section 3.01. (a) WB shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices and procedures consistently applied, their resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial


﻿-3-
statements related to the Project for each financial year, certi-
fied as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but
in any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year.
(b) WB shall cause its departments and other agencies and
authorities responsible for the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial state-
ments related to the Project for each financial year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association immediately following its finali-
zation, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts and records, financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, WB shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of WB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify WB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-5-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For State of West Bengal:
Chief Secretary
Government of West Bengal
Writer's Building
Calcutta 700001
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Calcutta
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of WB may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or sucy other person or persons as said Chief Secretary
shall designate in writing, and WB shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 6 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, tfte parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in India
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures of WB, acceptable to the Associa-
tion. Civil works on small isolated buildings not exceeding 20%
of the civil works may be carried out departmentally under the
supervision of project construction units.
2.   Contracts for furniture and vehicles shall be procured
through the competitive bidding procedures of WB, satisfactory to
the Association. Contracts for the purchase of furniture esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 each may be
awarded on the basis of prudent shopping, with solicitation of
price quotation from at least three suppliers, provided the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed $250,000.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $100,000 each may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding procedures of WB, acceptable to the


﻿-8-
Association, provided the aggregate value of such contracts shall
not exceed $2,000,000. Contracts for the purchase of equipment
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 each may be
awarded on the basis of prudent shopping, with solicitation of
price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed $500,000.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the..basis of-statements of. expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained until one year after the Closing Date.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist WB in carrying out the Project, WB shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrcwers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
In the implementation of the Project, WB shall carry out the
following undertakings:
1.   Not later than two months before the beginning of its finan-
cial year, furnish detailed annual demand generation strategies
to the Association for its review and comments.
2.   By March 31, 1986, take all measures to appoint the required
number of health assistants (female).
3.   By March 31, 1986: (a) complete a survey to identify any
significant gaps in the skills, knowledge and practices of family
welfare staff as a basis for the reorientation of the staff in
the Project Districts; and (b) promptly furnish the results of
said siurvey to the Association for its review and comments.
4.   Not later than two months before the beginning of its finan-
cial year annually furnish curricula and a timetable for the
retraining of staff in the Project Districts, to the Association
for its review and comments.
5.   (a) Complete a mid-term review of the progress of each com-
ponent of the Project and of the performance of the family wel-
fare program in WB, with particular reference to the selected
districts; and
(b) furnish the results of said review to the Association,
by April 1, 1988 for its comments and thereafter take all neces-
sary actions as agreed with the Association.
6.   (a) By June 30, 1986, appoint a nucleus of senior staff
positions as agreed with the Association; and (b) by March 31,
1988 fully staff the SIHFW as agreed with the Association and
thereafter maintain all the SIHFW staff positions on a regular
basis.
7.   By December 31, 1985, establish and maintain two committees
to coordinate the functions of: (a) the Mass Education and Media
Division with the State Bureau of Health Education; and (b) the
Family Welfare Demographic and Evaluation Cell with the State
Bureau of Health Intelligence. Said committees shall have member-
ship, functions and powers satisfactory to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archi\,es of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
in witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  2         day of
F                            98 E.
FOR SECRETARY


