Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC4uL USE ONLY
Rqot No. P-3613-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMEATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERN&TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND STRUCTURAL AD.*STMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $250.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
June 9, 1983
This document his a restriced distnibuto and may be usd by recipients aoly in the pformance of
thir offwial dutie  Its contnts may not odhrwise be disdcsed without World Bank authorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   CFA Franc (CFAF) I/
USS1 .00        =   CFAF 355
CFAF 1 million  =   US$2,817.00
WEIGHTS AND XNEASURES
Metric
I metric ton (MT) = 0.984 long ton
FIS'AL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/  The CPA Franc is tied to the French Franc at the rate of 1FF to
CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Summary ... ...............*..........    i
Descriptive Glossary of Acronyms .................................    ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY ........................ .......... .........    1
A.  Backgrounda    c      kd......              . .... ... ........    1
B.  Recent Economic Developments           ............ ........    2
C.  The Need for Structural Change ..................... ........    4
D.  The Economic Outlook ................................               5
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ............... ..... ...    7
A.  Economic Management and Public Investment Policy ............    8
B.  Parastatal Enterprise Reform .......... ......................   13
C.  Agriculture ............................................................. 16
D.  Industry.......................................   21
e. Housing Policy ................. o .................... ... ................   26
F.  Expected Impact of the Structural Adjustmen't Program ........   36
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN .       .     ...... &...   38
A.  Background .    ...... .......***.......................   38
B.  SAL I Program Implementation ..... .......... ....... ......... .    38
C.  Loan Amount .....    .......       .............. o ...............  39
D.  Monitoring of Actions, Proposed Conditions
and Supervision ................. o ...........   39
E.  Disbursements, Procurement and Use of
Counterpart Funds ............................o....                40
F.  Benefits and Risks ......................... o ................  41
G.  Collaboration with the IKF and other Donors ..... ............   42
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
AND RELATIONSHIP WITH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT ..... o................   43
PARTY - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY   .         .. o ...............   45
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION         .............. .......         .... ...   46
ANNEX I - Basic Country Data
ANNEX II - Bank Group Operations in the Ivory Coast
ANNEX III - Supplementary Data Sheet
ANNEX IV - Note on the Economic Situation in the Ivory Coast
ANNEX V - Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX VI - Use of IMF Resources
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of X
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEN¶r LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:             US$250.7 million equivalent, including capitalized front
end fee.
Terms:              17 years including 4 years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Loan Description:  The loan would be the second to support the implementation
of the Government's comprehensive program of structural
adjustment. This more intensive phase of the program is
outlined in the Economic Policy Declaration of the Govern-
ment to the Bank. The principal aim of this program of
basic policy changes is to promote sustainable growth and
increase public savings in the medium term. To achieve
these objectives detailed action programs would be imple-
mented over the next twelve months to (a) further improve
public finance management and investment policy, (b) re-
habilitate parastatal enterprises and improve their manage-
ment, (c) make additional improvements to the agricultural
incentive system, (d) promote the resumption of industrial
growth and improve the structure of Ivorian industry
through reducing the excessive levels of protection and
removing distortions in industrial incentives, and (e) sub-
stantially reform housing policy through reducing public
subsidies, improving private savings mobilization, and
inducing a structural shift in housing investment from tne
public to the private sector. The foreign exchange pro-
vided by the loan would be used to finance essential
imports. Counterpart funds would be used for development-
related expenditures and to finance the public enterprises
included in the program.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The loan would be distursed in two tranches, $125.7 million
would be available on loan effectiveness and the remaining
$125 million after a performance review.
Map:               IBRD 15773



- ii -
Descriptive Glossary of Acronyms
BCEAO           Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de lOuest
(Central Bank of West African States)
CAA             Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(Debt Amortization Fund)
CAISSTAB        Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agriccles
(Agricultural Exports Stabilization Fund)
CAPEN           Centre d'Assistance et de Promotion a l'Entreprise Nationale
(Assistance Agency for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises)
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(Central Fund for Economic Cooperation)
CIDT            Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles
(Regional Agricultural Development Agency for Savannah Zones;
Ivorian Cotton Development Company)
INTELCI         Societe des Telecommunications Internationales de Cote d'Ivoire
(Ivorian International Telecommunications Company)
HOTORAGRI       Societe pour le Developpement de la Notorisation de l'Agriculture
(Agency fcr Development of Agricultural Xechanisation)
OPT             Office de Postes et de Te1hcommunications
(Office of Posts and Telecommunications)
PALNINDUSTRIE   Societe Palmindustrie
'Palm Oil Development Company)
RAN             Regie du Chemin de Fer Abidjan-Niger
(Abidjan-Niger Railway Corporation)
SATMACI         Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modern'sation Agricole
de la C6te d'Ivoire
(Technical Assistance Company for the Agricultural Modernization of
the Ivory Coast; Regional Agricultural Development Agency for
Forest Zone)
SETU            Socit'et d'Equipements des Terrains Urbains
(Public Land Development Agency)
SICOGI          Societ& Ivoirienne de Construction et de la Gestion Immobiliere
(Public Housing Development Company)
SIR             Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage
(Ivorian Petroleum Refining Company)



- iii -
SITRAM          Societe Ivairienne de Transport Maritime
(Ivorian Maritime Transport Ccapany)
SIVENG          Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais
(Public Fertilizer Company)
SODEFEL         Societe pour le Developpement des Fruits et Legumes
(Fruit and Vegetable Development Company)
SODEFOR         Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations Foreati-res
(Forestry Development Company)
SODEPRA         Societe pour le Developpement des Productions Animales
(Livestock Production Development Company)
SODESUCRE       Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations de Cannes a Sucre,
l'Industrialisation et Commercialis&tion du Sucre
(Sugar Development Company)
SOGEFIHA        Societe de Gestion Financitrc de l'Ht.bitat
(Public Housing Development Agency)
SOTRA           Societe des Transports Abidjanais
Cibidjan Public Bus Transport Company)
UMOA            Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine
(West African Monetary Union)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equiva-
lent of $250.7 million, including capitalized front end fee. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART r - THE ECONOMY
A.  Background
2.       "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report' (No. 1!47b-IVC) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors in May 1977 and published under the title
'The Challenge of Success" in 1973. Its assessment of the country's economic
prospects has been periodically updated in subsequent President's Reports
issued to the Board. The findings of our most recent economic assessment are
reflected in the paragraphs below and are presented in greater detail in a
paper entitled 'A Note on the Economic Situation in the Ivory Coast" which is
attached as Annex IV to this report. Basic country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.       During the first two decades after independence in 1960, the Ivory
Coast experienced an average 791 per annum GNP growth rate, one of the fastest
development rates for non-oil exporting countries in the world. As a result
GNP per capita amounted to US$1,150 in 1980, the second highest in sub-saharan
Africa. The Government has pursued growth as a primary objective since inde-
pendence, in a remarkably stable political environment. Political ideology
played a secondary role in a system characterized by a wide scope for private
initiative supported by pragmatic public policies. The open economy attracted
labor from neighboring countriea, and capital, technology and skilled
personnel from Europe.
4.       Agriculture was the basis for rapid development, particularly in the
forest zones of the south where coffee, cocoa and timber became the main
source of exports, income generation, and public savings to finance a spread-
ing infrastructure network. Important progress was made in diversifying the
structure of agriculture but the three main products still represented 65% of
expcrts of goods in 1980 compared with 85% twenty years earlier. The benefits
of growth were also unevenly distributed as the more limited potential of the
north led to lagging income growth despite impressive gains in selected crops
such as cotton.



- 2 -
5.       Through 1975, fluctuations in the external terms of trade were not
largzc. The first major increase in oil prices was temporarily offset by
fav-,rable export prices. The effects of moderate external shocks were also in
large part countered, internally by a price stabilization mechanism for the
main agricultural products and, externally, throu.h membership in the West
African Monetary Union which ensures, througn a cooperation agreement with
France, inter alia, unlimited free convertibility of the currency.
6.       As growth was concentrated in forest zone export crops, it was not
surprising that returns to investment began to level off as the potential of
the region and foreign markets were increasingly exploited, and as the import
substitution possibilities in industry diminished after a period of rapid
output growth. Further, lower returns resulted from a si-ift in public invest-
ment to relatively high cost social investments with inevitably long pay off
periods, in sectors such as education.
7.       The likely emergence of structural economi.c problems following a
protracted pericd of high growth rates was a basic issue for future strategy.
Carrent econimic and financial stringencies on the other hand stem largely
from the difficulties the country faced in adcpting to the rapid changes in
the world economy after 1975. The exceptionally high international prices for
coffee and cocoa led to an 80% improvement in the terms of trade between 1975
and 1977 and to surpluses in the stabilization fund (CAISSTAB) representing
more than 10% of GDP. Governme-t launched an excessively ambitious public
investment program which rose to over 25% of GDP, some 40% of which was
financed by external borrowings. Becaaise of high unit costs and excessive
scale, especially fnr eugar, transport anl e ucat..en projects, rates of
econcmic return were low and much of the investment did little to sustain
growth. Further, rising recurrent costs and higher interast payments caused
Dublic expenditures to reach 41% of GDP by 1980 while the terms of trade
declined by 30% between 1977 and 1980. This led to a substantial deteriora-
tion in public savings and to a severe financial crisis in 1980. The current
account balance of payments deficit amounted to 16% of GDP and the public
sector £-i.rancial gap to 12.8% of GDP. The continuing adverse prosnects for
coffee and cocoa prices after the sharp decline in 1978, the high cost of
foreign borrowings and the wcrldwide depression led the Government to launch,
at the end of 1980, a stringent financial recovery plan. Simultaneously steps
were taken to prepare a longer term structural adjustment program.
8.       The finiancial program aims a" restoring internal and external im-
balances. It consists of a set of budgetary and monetary measures to contain
credit expansicn, to increase government revenue, rc reverse the upward trend
of current expenditures, and to restrain the investment program while re-
stricting external borrowings and improving the external debt profile. This
program is sapported by an IMF SDR 484.5 million (U.S.$514 million at 1983
SDR/CFAF exchange rate) Extended Fund Facility covering the period 1981-83.
B. Recent Economic Developments (1081-82) and the implementation of the
financial recovery plan
9.      TJnder the financial program tho Government has already succeeded in
reducing the cverall public sector deficit and the balance of payments current



- 3 -
account defi.c;t. This has been achieved despite three unfavorable factors
beyond the authorities' control. First, the terms of trade declined by a
further 17% in 1981 and 1982 while the world economic situation impeded growth
of exports. Second, high interest rates increased the debt service burden of
the country as it became more dependent on non-concessional loans to finance
the previous s;arge in public investment. Finally, the pace of oil production,
which reached a level of 1.3 million tons a year during the last quarter of
1982, was not as rapid as previously expected.
10.      The first objective of the financial recovery plan is to reduce the
public sector deficit, which is at the root of present external imbalances.
This deficit declined from 12.8% of GDP in 1980 to 8.8% in 1982 while Govern-
ment arrears have been reduced almost by half ov-er this period. Despite
improvemeL.&  in the efficiency of the tax system and the implementation of a
series of fiscal measures, central government revenues de--lined slightly to
27% of GDP mainly due to a reduction in the net margins levied by CAISSTAB,
despite tne freeze on producer prices for coffee and cocoa. The trend of
current expenditure expansion has been shifted; the implementation of a strict
recruitment and wage policy, and the cuts in direct and indirect consumer
subsidies enabled the Government to reduce the current budget by about 2% in
real terms. However, the main effort to control public spending focussed on
capital expenditures which have been curtailed by about 25% in real terms
during this period by cancelling or postponing expenzive non-priority
projects.
11.      Improvements in the external accounts have been more modest.  The
balance of payments current account deficit declined from 16% of GDP in 1980
to 13.7% in 1982. Despite the deterioration in the terms of trade, the trade
surplus increased from 4.8% to 9.3% of GDP. This was due to a 7.5% increase
of exports in constant prices and a reduction of imports by 17.5% induced by
the slowdown of the economy and the development of local oil production. The
decline by one-fourth in the effective exchange rate during this period was an
important factor in the improiement of the current account of the balance of
payments. The rapid rise of interest pay'nents on public debt, which more than
doubled in CFAF terms from 1980 to 1982 and new account for 6.7% of GDP,
reduced the impact of this improvement on the current account. The overall
balance of payments deficit, which reached CFAF 150 billion in 1981, fell to
CFAF 50 billion in 1982. Two factors produced opposite tendencies in this
respect. On the one hand, the Government had to increase foreign borrowing by
CFAF 130 billion in 1982 in order to finance the public sector deficit. On
the other hand, an outflow of monetary capital occurred, due to a low domestic
demand for credit and the existence of a negative differential between local
and French monetary market interest rates before their realignment in April
1982 when the basic discount rate was raised to 12%. This led to lending
rates by primary banks of 17.5% excluding taxes and almost 22% including
taxes.
12.      These budgetary and monetary policies have contributed to a marked
slowdown in the economy. For the first time since 1960, the country experi-
enced a decline in national income. GDP in real terms declined by 3.1%
between 1980 and 1982 compared with a 6.1% average annual increase during the
four previous years. In 1981 record crops led to a 7.6% growth in the primary



sector while the secondary sector was severpl' hit by the recession: value
added declined by 5% on average and by about 30% in the construction and
public works sector. In 1982 activity in this sector, which is heavily
dependent on public investment, declined by a further 17%. The return to
normal coffee and cocoa crop levels induced a decline by 3.7% of value added
in the agricultural sector, and the manufacturing and tertiery sectors
stagnated. As a consequence employment in the modern sector continued to
decline slightly for the fourth consecutive year, the reduction since 1978
amounting to about 13%. Despite Froductivity gains induceed by these develop-
ments, the financial situation of the private sector has not improved, mainly
as a result of a significant increase in financial charges. This led to a
decline in the investment rate from 27.1% to 23.5% of GDP despite the large
increase in investments in the oil sector. which ariounted to abcut CFAF 200
billion during these two years. Inflatio;n, measured by the consumption price
index, averaged 11%, the same level as during previous years, the impact of
activity slowdown being balanced by the effect of import price increases and
fiscal or parafiscal measures.
C. The Need for Structural Change
13.      Whereas the immediate crisis and its subsequent worsenirg was met by
the adoption of a stringent financial recovery and stabilization program
designed to reduce imbalances in nublic .3ector finances and exterrnal accounts,
it was evident that the ivorian economy was suffeeing from a series of funda-
mental weaknesses and economic policy deficiencies.
14.      An assessment of these weaknesses made it clear that basic structural
changes would be needed to bring the country back to a reasonably high and
sustainable growth path in the second half of the 10,80s and beyond. First,
the rapid rise in public spending clearly revealed deficiencies in the manage-
ment of public sector resources. In particular, the previously efficient in-
vestment review and financial control systems had fallen into disuse, allowing
over-designed and low productivity projects to be initiated. Large and ill-
conceived programs for public enterprises in a large variety of sectors re-
sulted in major outflows of public resources witb small correspondi-ag social
or economic benefits. The expansion of the education system while impressive,
was accompanied by growing inefficiency, increasing irrelevance to the needs
of the economy and escalating recurrent costs which absorbed as much as 46% of
the Government's current budget. Second, agriculture, the force behind
Ivorian growth, had lost much of its dynamism. Unsound price and subsidy
policies produced distorted supply and demand responces. Foodcrop production
remained weak w._le the country's need for food wa-. being met increasingly by
imports. Moreover, poor planning, programming and research led to a weak
public investment program in agriculture. Several public agricultural
agencies were poorly managed, overstaffed and at times inadequately funded due
to weak financial control systems. Third, it became clear that excessive and
misdirected protection arising from the widespread introduction of quantita-
tive restrictions and distortions in the tariff system was eroding industrial
productivity and export-:.
15.      Recognizing these structural deficiencies, the Government defined and
adopted at the end of 1981 a program of basic policy changes designed to



- 5 -
promote growth and increase public savings in the medium term. The worsening
economic situation since then has coxivinced the Government of the need to
continue and intensify its program of structural change. The Government's
structural adjustment program is described in Part II of this report.
The Present Economic Situation
16.      Growth of GDP is expected to resume in 1983 at a 2.2% rate, the
result mainly of the increase in oil production, while value added in the
other  iectors of the economy is likely to decline despite the recent 2%
reduction in domestic interest rates following the easing on international
financial markets. This forecast takes into account only first estimates of
the impact of the drought and the bush and forest fires which characterized
the 1983 dry season. The Government is currently assessing the full effects
of tile drought which will also affect 1983-84 crops. This should not however
reduce export earnings as the country's coffee stocks built after the record
1981 crop still represent 7 months of exports, and recent world price in-
creases for both coffee and cocoa are expected to compensate for a decline in
volume of cocoa exports. Despite the recent decrease in interest rates and
the reduction in CFAF exchange rate, the financial situation of the country
will remain tight. The cumulative effects of the financial stabilization plan
will, however, lead to further important reductions in external and internal
imbalances; the balance of payments current account deficit is expected to
decline from 13.7% to 9.9% of GDP and the public sector deficit from 8.8% to
6.2% of GDP.  These improvements will mainly stem from a decline in imports,
estimated at 5.5% in real terms, and from further reductions in public invest-
ment and in current budget expenditures by, respectively, 5% and 2% in real
..e rms.
17.      The Government has decided to sharply reduce, by CFAF 110 billion,
gross foreign borrowings and has obtained agreement from the UNOA to mobilize
its baLance on counterpart funds from IMF purchases. The resulting decline in
official capital inflows will lead to an increase of about CFAF 90 billion iu
the overall balance of payments deficit. Despite the strict borrowing policy
implemented since 1980, the ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non
factor services will still increase from 33% in 1982 to an estimated 39.5% in
1983, much higher than originally projected in the financial recovery program.
This reflects, as noted above, the more severe decline in the terms of trade
than was projected, and the effects of higher real interest rates and lower
than forecast oil output.
D. The Economic Outlook
18.      Since SAL I was presented to the Board at the end of 1981, the
prospects for the Ivorian economy over the rest of the decade have bacome less
promising. First, the price forecasts for the major primary products exported
by the Ivory Coast (especially cocoa and coffee) are now substantially lower
thar they were in 1981: Bank projections make any significant improvement in
the country's terms of trade unlikely in the foreseeable fature. Second,
although interest rates have recently declined cn international financial
markets, this has been accompanied by even larger declines in international
inflation and consequently, projections of interest rates in real terms are



- 6 -
higher than envisaged in 1981. Third, the pace of development of the Ivory
Coast's oil resources is likely to be slower than was previously anticipated.
The very limited available information is insufficient for reliable predic-
tions to be made on the level of Ivorian oil production during the second half
of the 1980s. In these circumstances, an arbitrary assumptior has been made
that two new oilfields will enter into production during this decade, the
first in 1986 and the second in 1987 and that these new fields will have the
same profiles and production levels as the two currently producing fields.
This assumption may appear conservative, given the recently reported discovery
of a new field and the investment in exploration that is underway by interna-
tional oil companies in the Ivory Coaet. However, in the absence of any hard
information it may be better to err on the side of caution.
19.      Over the short term (1983-85), the financial constraints on develop-
ment will remain very tight. Restrictive fiscal, investment and monetary
policies will have to remain in force at least until 1985. The efforts to
restrain public expenditures will have to continue as it could be unwise to
increase tax rates beyond the levels already attained. Government has made it
clear that the recent decision to move the political capital to Yamoussoukro,
which has a considerabje amount of underutilized infrastructure, will not lead
to any relaxation of the tight control on the size and structure of the
investment program that is necessary, at least until 1985. The decision
should help relieve growth pressure in Abidjan, the development of infrastruc-
ture in that city presently representing CFAF 31.5 billion or 70% of overall
investment in urban infrastructure in 1983.
20.      Even with the continuation of the strict financial recovery program
already in place, the debt service ratio is projected to rise to an average of
43 percent in the period 1983-1985. The deterioration in the ratio is however
not on its own an adequate measure of the external financial situation of the
country, as it is accompanied by a further reduction in the balance of pay-
ments current account deficit, which is projected to fall to 8.8% of GDP in
1985. This will mainly stem from reductions in imports, as constraints on
±ncrease of exports in the short term will remain important. The rising debt
service ratio is however an indicator of the very tight external financial
situation that the Ivory Coast will face. As a result of the financial
stabilization effort, economic growth is expeected to be lower than population
growth until 1985, real GDP being forecast to increase by about 2 percent per
year until 1985.
21.      The acceleration of the structural adjustment process in the next few
years is an important precondition to moving to a higher growth rate after
1985. It is based mainly on the improvement in the productivity of public
investments and the efficiency of public enterprises, and on the expected
supply responses in both agriculture and industry to changes in the incentive
system to be implemented. This, together with the oil output increases
assumed above, should permit growth of GDP per capita to resume at an average
rate of 2.3 percent per annum in the second half of this decade while the debt
service burden is forecast to decline to about 31% of exports of goods and non
factor services by 1990.



PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
22.      As indicated in Part I above, the Government at the beginning of the
1980s recognized that GDP growth in the late 1970s had been artificially main-
tained by exceptionally large public investment programs and realized in
retrospect that, even before the halcyon days of the coffee and cocoa boom,
the economy was suffering from diminishing returns to productive factors and
other fundamental weaknesses masked during a long period of spectacular growth.
The Bank collaborated .ery closely with the Ivorian authorities in analyzing
the structural weaknesses in the country's economic system, and assisted the
Government in defining ard initiating a program of structural change. This
program was supported Dy the Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan of $150
million to the Ivory Coast in December 1981. The principal goals of the
program were: (1) restoring effective central management, policy making and
investment programming; (2) rehabilitating the incentive system in agriculture
together with supporting planning and execut-ng agencies; (3) reforming the
inefficient and costly public enterprise sector; (4) preparing a comprehensive
reform of the industrial incentive system and agencies promoting industriali-
zation; and (5) reducing the excessive cost and improving the system of cost
recovery of the educational system.
23.      SAL I was accompanied by a $16.0 million Technical Assistance Loan
which has provided financing for a number of key advisors to strengthen in
particular agricultural planning and project preparatio'l capabilities, for a
number of studies of public enterprises and for the preparation of further
programs of reform.  Overall, the Government's performance in undertaking the
SAL I program, which is aiscussed later in this report (see Part II, Sections
A, B, C and D and paras. 95-94 below) has been very positive.
24.     'However, since SIL I was approved, several exogenous factors have
combined to worsen the short-term financial outlook as well as medium-term
prospects for the country (see paragraphs 9-12 and 16-21 above). In the light
of these developments, the Government rapidly recognized that it was impera-
tive for the country to continue with the adjustment process initiated under
SAL I and to intensify its program of structural change. A second phase
adjustment program was prepared ove: the past six months with the active
participation of the Bank. It defines a bold and forceful program of policy
reform and is based on the expsrience with the first stage reforms, results of
studies completed under SAL I, and Government's decision to expand the scope
for improving productivity and generating public savings in new areas.
25.      The main medium-term objectives of the second phase program are:
(a)  Further improvements in public finance management and investment
Dolicy, as well as a progressive restructuring of current expendi-
tures.
(b) Further rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises through the
implementation of reorganization programs developed under SAL I,
preparation of recovery plans for eight additional important agencies
and implementation of an efficient follow-up and control system.



8-  
(c) Continuing the rationalization of agricultural policy. This com-
ponent wnuld include further improvements in the agricultural
policies, the implementation of the second stage of an improved
incentive system and further stages in the reorganization of the most
important public enterprises in this sector.
(d) Implementation of the first phases of the structural adjustment
reform of the industrial sector which was identified under SAL I, and
preparing a series of additional reforms.
(e) Definition and implementation of a program of reforms in urban
housing policy, involving a major reduction in public subsidies and
improvements in private savings mobilization and in the housing
financing system which will help to-induce a structural shift in
housing investment from the public to the private sector.
Programs to achieve these objectives and action programs to implement these
policy changes are described below and in the Government's Letter of Develop-
ment Policy (see Annex 5).
A. Economic Management and Public Investment Policy
26.      The Ivory Coast's rapid development since independence depended
crucially on a planning and programming system which enabled public sector
surpluses to be reinvested in worthwhile projects, maintalned budgetary
discipline in order to produce public savings, established public agencies in
areas where the private sector was inactive, and finally, which prudently
managed the external debt.  The deterioration of the economic management
system occurred following the appearance of large public finance gains from
higher prices of coffee and cocoa in 1976 and 1977. As the Government
expected these prices to remain high it undertook a major expansion in invest-
ment, recurrent costs, public enterprise operations and the external debt.
Much of this spending did not lead to the creation of new resources and Left
the country ill-prepared for the external shocks of the oil crisis in 1979 and
the continued sharp fall in the prices of its major export commodities.
Further, the economic outlook for the medium-term indicates a continuous slow
growth in the world demand for Ivorian products and domestic stringency in
resources available to restructure the economy to face the challenge of the
1980s.
27.      The success of the country in reducing excessive public investment
spending after 1978 showed that the discipline existed at the policy level to
take difficult decisions when required. What was needed in addition was a
more sophisticated economic management and investment programming system which
would enable Government to (1) operate a medium-term planning system capable
of iden'ifying priorities and resources for the sound future development of
the economy; (2) react in a timely fashion to adverse circumstances; (3)
properly assess the use and availability of public resources as a basis for
allocations; (4) relate foreign borrowing to a realistic assessment of the
country's capacity to repay; (5) pay increased attention to economic criteria
in investment decision making to ensure that new projects produce satisfactory
returns and give rise to sustainable recurrent expenditures.



- 9 -
28.      A critical issue that the country has been facing is the need to
raise the level of public savings. As revenues already amount to about 28% of
GDP, increasing attention needs to be focussed on reducing recurrent costs of
existing operations and improving cost recovery in public service programs.
Performance in these respects is relatively good in some sectors such as
electricity, water supply and sewerage, but there is considerable room for
improvement, particularly in education and housing. The education sector has
been characterized by high operating costs, internal and external inefficien-
cies and low levels of cost recovery. The rapid expansion of spending in
education, which rose from 33.3% of the Government's current budget in 1975 to
46% in 1981, has been halted but further reductions in current spending
together with improvements in the productivity of the system are needed. In
the housing sector a particularly heavy drain on current expenditures has
arisen from the rapid increase in the number of civil servants receiving free
housing, which has been increasing by 2,000 p.a. in recent years, and reached
about 35,000 or a third of the total number of civil servants by 1981.
Government Response
29.      The Government was quick to respond to the further deterioration in
its financial situation due to external factors and succeeded in reducing the
current budget in real terms in 1982 and 1983. Nevertheless, because current
spending is difficult to compress in the short-term, financial stabilization
required the bulk of the cuts to take place in the investment budget.  Since
1981 the planning and programming system has been substitntially improved. The
1982 public inrestment program was based on the system outlined in the SAL I
Letter of Development Policy and accordingly contained all investment projects
under central Government and public enterprise control, including those
financed by CAISSTAB which, in the past, were often implemented outside the
formal programming process. Program implementation was also satisfactory; no
departures from the budget occulrred. This indicates that the Ministry of
Finance's monitoring system, which does not allow a project to begin before
funds are available, is working efficiently.
30.      The 1983 public investment program was prepared along the same lines
and on schedule. Nevertheless, a careful assessment of the availability of
public resources indicated the need for further reductions in the program.
These were carried out and public investment now amounts to about 12% of GDP
compared to over 25% in 1978, which corresponds to a 39% decline in real
terms. Despite the fact that new projects represent only 18% of 1983 invest-
ment expenditures, the quality of the program has improved. Its sectoral
composition indicates a shift to productive sectors (See Table 1).



- 10 -
Table 1:  PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1981-1983
1981               1982              1983
CFAF      %0       CFA-F       %      CFAF       %
billion            billion           billion
Agriculture                  59-9    17.4        61.6      19.1    68.2   20.5
Industry and Energy         24.1       9.9       43 9      13.6    58.?   17.9
Transportation               79.6     23.0       72.9      22.6    72.5    21.8
(of which roads)         (49.3)   (14-3)      (48-5)   (15.0)   44.2   (13.3)
Telecommunications           15.1      4.4       10.5       3.3    10.0     3.0
Urban Infrastructure,
Education and Health     116.9    33.9         92.9     28.9    85.4    25.7
Other                       39.3      11.4       40.6      12.5    36.9    11.1
344.8      100%     322.4       100%  331.2     100%
31.      Significant progress has also been made in project evaluation.
Financial and technical appraisals have greatly improved, as a result of the
active role of the -Direction et Controle des Grands Travavx=", the public
agency under the tutelage of the Presidency, in charge of preparing and
monitoring public works projects. Economic analysis is now, as a rule, done
systematically and most projects have acceptable rates of return. However,
greater attention needs to be given to the results of cost benefit analysis in
those sectors where such analysis is applicable: in addition, there is a need
in the social sectors to rapidly introduce least cost analysis criteria more
widely in screening projects. Of course, the sharp cut in investment spending
virtually eliminated new large social investments, shifting the emphasis to
complementary investments designed to make better use of existing assets.
32.      The Government announced, following student unrest in January 1982,
that it would proceed with the long delayed decentralization of the University
of Abidjan.  In vtew of the difficult financial situation and the need to
devote the bulk of the limited investment resources to productive projects,
the Government decided to lower design standards substantially so that the
cost of the two new branches of the University will not exceed CFAF 36 bil-
lion, about one-third of the original estimated cost, with annual expenditures
limited to CFAF 10 billion or 3% of the 1983 Investment Program.  Even at this
reduced level, the pace at which this investment proceeds will require con-
tinued scrutiny by the GoTrernment in the light of its financial constraints.
The relocation of several of the social science faculties to the secondary
cities of Bouake and Korhogo in the interior should be carefully implemented
in order to avoid overcrowding and facilitate placing increased emphasis on
the scientific disciplines, as these departments will stay in Abidjan. Fur-
ther, efforts that are being made to reduce costs and improve cost recovery by
such steps as reducing fellowships should restrain the indiscriminate growth
of the student population in fields that do not match the courtry's develop-
ment needs for skilled manpower.



- 11 -
Action Program
33.      The second phase of the structural adjustment process starts with
most of the basic planning and progranmming mechanisms in place. The Govern-
ment recognizes that financial austerity will have to be observed beyond 1985
and that public investment program cannot be permitted to increase in real
terms before then. New projects will be subject to overall investment
spending constraints and rigorous review of design standards lad costs.
Despite pressures arising from the very depressed state of the contracting
industry, the Government has shown its commitment to assuring that the size
and composition of the investment program meets structural adjustment goals.
In this connection, there will be a full review with Bank staff of the public
investment program in late 1983.
34.      The next stage of the program will aim at reinforcing and institu-
tionalizing current progress and place more emphasis on up stream decision
processes. This would bring improvements to each stage of the programming
system, notably with respect to three major issues:  (1) the public investment
financing process; (2) investment programming, budgeting and project selec-
tion; and (3) measures to increase public savings and control recurrent
expenditures.
Improvement in the public investment financing process
35. (a) The rules of eligibility for public enterprises to obtain Government
guarantees on their borrowings will be tightened.
(b) Receipts from the oil sector will be fully integrated into the
Treasury.  This year 80% of oil revenues are allocated to debt
service and 20% for investment financing.
(c) The receipts of CAISSTAB, the Stabilization Fund, will be better
integrated into the oublic finance system. In 1982 investments
financed by CAISSTAB were integrated into the Government's investment
budget, but their selection remained separated from the normal
programming process. This year the Government decided to earmark 70%
of CAISSTAB's surplus to the CAA and 20% to finance arrears on past
investment and complete on-going investments, with 10% going to
reduce the deficit of non-audgetary accounts in the Treasury. The
Government has decided to continue this earmarking process in the
future. Surpluses earmarked for investment will be allocated by
priority financing needs of agricultural agencies not covered by
project loans, the objective being to have these expenditures fully
met out of local resources as of 1985. As a consequence, ongoing
projects funded by CAISSTAB surpluses will be integrated into the
Government's investment budget.
Investment Programming, Budgeting and Project Selection
36.      Under the first phase of the structural adjustment process a Com-
mittee for Financial Coordination and Investment Control was set up to produce
economic and financial indicators needed to assess performance under the



- 12 -
financial recovery program and to advise the Government on the impact of
changing economic parameters. In order to further improve the process of
investment screening, without overburdening this Committee, it has been
decided to strengthen the programming process as follows:
(a) The Schema Directeur, the three year financial program, which
forecasts the likely course of the economy and proposes sectoral
investment allocations will be improved by the introduction of
detailed public sector accounts, better debt service projections and
by the preparation of a series of sectoral schemas directeur. These
will serve as guides to the line Ministries and will provide them
with sectoral priorities, indicative investment targets and available
financing based on core and optional investment programs.
(b) Parallel with the above, the Loi-Programme, the three year rolling
public investment program, will be improved by fully integrating all
transfers to parastatals and improving its accuracy. It will be used
as the monitoring framework for quarterly assessments of project
implementation.
(c)  Cost benefit analysis will be generalized for the types of investment
where it is suitable and systematic least cost analysis will be
introduced for the social sectors in most important line ministries
under the general guidance of an expanded supervisory unit in the
Ministry of Plan, supported by the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan.
Recurrent Expenditures and Public Savings
37.      Aside from measures addressed under the financial recovery program
and public enterprise reform programs, the second phase of structural adjust-
ment would concentrate on two critical areas in an effort to further reduce
recurrent expenditures, namely education and housing:
(a) The 1983 budget includes a further CFAF 15 billion reduction in
annual recurrent spending on education.  In addition, in fiscal 1984
a new system of program budgeting will be progressively introduced,
in parallel with existing budgetary controls, which will establish
norms for costs for each type of education and will provide an
objective basis for determining efficiency and identifying possible
savings in all the elements of the education system.
(b) In housing, the SAL II program makes far reaching reforms, including
sharp reductions in civil servants housing programs, maintenance fees
to be paid by tenants in Government-owned units, and raising the
level of cost recovery in the large and currently heavily subsidized
public housing program (see paras. 88-90 below for full details).



- 13 -
B. Parastatal Enterprise Reform
Background
38.      Parastatal enterprises have played a key role in the Ivory Coast's
development process. The Government has relied heavily on them to diversify
and modernize agricultural production, to promote a sound infrastructure
network and to develop sectors where private entrepreneurship was insuffi-
ciently active. During the first half of the 1970s their number increased
very rapidly. In 1977 there were 113 enterprises with total or majority
public participation. In the modern sector excluding Government, public
enterprises with a total of 86,000 employees, representei about one third of
total employment, produced _'7% of value added, and were responsible for 68% of
capital formation. The country's guaranteed external debt, which amounted to
39% of total public debt, was almost exclusively incurred by public enter-
prises. The earlier proliferation of such enterprises and the rapid growth in
their programs, combined with a deterioration in their financial situation,
induced an increasing public firnance burden and led zhe Government to define,
in 1977, a program of reform -n th3 management of parastatals. Three main
weaknesses had been diagnosed.  Fi-st, several public enterprises lacked clear
definition of their roles. Often created to pursue both ill-defined social
and economic objectives, such enterprises were obliged by the Government to
follow tariff and investment policies, which were neither consistent with
sound financial practice nor counterbalanced by sufficient resource transfers
from the Government. Second, supervisory mechanisms were inadequate and
ineffective. The Board of Directors played a modest role, as the representa-
tives of the State rarely received clear instructions on policies to be imple-
mented by the enterprises. The Government's efforts to reinforce controls
were not successful; for example recommendations formulated by external
auditors were often ignored. However, these efforts led, in several cases, to
complex and bureaucratic procedures which hindered sound management without
improving efficiency. Third, the economic and financial performance of too
many enterprises was mediocre. Often overstaffed, their productivity was
particularly low. Deficiencies in the accounting system induced very long
delays in the production of annual results. Only a few enterprises had been
able to develop planning capacities: ill-conceived investment programs with
inadequate financing schemes were common leading to structural financial
weaknesses in many cases.
Government Response
39.      Since 1978 the Government has implemented a series of far-reaching
measures to tackle these problems. They include the closing down of 16 public
enterprises, the transfer of some activities to the private sector, the
definition and adoption of a new and stricter legal classification system of
parastatal enterprises (which led to wage cuts in 11 enterprises), the re-
inforcing of the centralized financial monitoring system, and a progressive
revision of tariff policies. These measures have begun to improve, despite a
difficult economic environment, the consolidated financial situation of public
enterprises to some extent. Between 1978 and 1981 current liabilities
declined from 27.8% to 22.1% of the sector's consolidated balance sheet while
current assets rose from 21 .5% to 23%. Net cash-flow increased by CFAF 27
billion in the same period and became positive in 1981.



- 14 -
40.      Within the SAL I framework the Government, while pursuing further the
implementation of these measures, decided to launch a large and complementary
program of reform at .he enterprise level with the overall objective of
improving their cost-effectiveness. This program began with thorough manage-
ment audits of the agencies i. zharge of agricultuzal development and of the
ailing international railway company (RAN). Meanwhile short-term financial
rehabilitation programs were implemented to enable these enterprises to con-
tinue their activities, which are essential for the long-term development of
the country. These efforts will be continued under SAL II by expanding the
program of reform of parastatal enterprises in new sectors of activity and by
implementing a series of measures which are still needed to improve the
overall management of public enterprises, to rationalize their relationships
with the state and to ensure that the positive impact of the reforms are not
jeopardized in the medium term by insufficient responsibility being given to
the enterprises' managers.
Action Program
41.      The Government's action program, detailed in the Letter of Develop-
ment Policy (see Annex 5) is structured around three main objectives.
Improvement in the overall management of Public Enterprises
42.      The Participation Directorate in the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
which is in charge of the state's portfolio management, will improve its
present follow-up system by introducing a more efficient system of monitoring
economic and financial performance of parastatals. It will consist of a
series of synoptic tables (tableaux de bord) which will include basic finan-
cial data as well as key indicators of management efficiency and enterprise
productivity. Performance targets will be agreed between the Government and
the enterprises in order to periodically compare actual results with objec-
tives. The financial information will enable more accurate forecasts to be
made of the enterprises' financial needs and budgetary allocations. This
should avoid inadequate funding, which was partly responsible for the enter-
prises' financial weaknesses. This system will be introduced in the transport
sector agencies before the end of this year so as zo be generalized in 1984.
The Rationalization of the Relationships between the Government and
Parastatals
43.      The relationship between the Government and public enterprises will
be improved in three respects. First, the legal framework of public enter-
prises has been refined with the objective of bringing their legal status
closer to their functions. Public ent'-prises fall into two major and
distinct categories. The first group consists of public agencies which are
parts of the government administration but which have been given a greater
degree of autonomy and responsibility to carry out more efficiently certain
public service functions. The bulk of their resources come from the Govern-
ment's budget and they are consequently obliged to follow the guidelines and
procedures of the public administration system. The second category is made
up of public commercial companies (either fully or largely owned by the State)
responsible for promoting activities supporting the development objectives of



- 15 -
the country in s±tuations of insufficient private venture capital.  They are
subject to the vivate law of business corporations, as the intention is to
rrogressively 4-ansfer their activities to the private sector. The Government
ha.m decided to reconsider the classification of two important enterprises,
SAT:;ACI and SODEFOR 1/, and to examine ways of improving the legal status of
three others, the Abidjan and San Pedro Port Authorities and the Autonomous
Debt Agency (CAA), in order to make them correspond more closely to their
current functions.
44.      Second, Government has defined four tools which will be utilized to
define exp'licitly the reciprocal rights and obligations of the Government and
public entities depending on the activity and financial situation of the
enterprise. These devices are: (i) "Annual Action Programs", for entities
that are decentralized parts of the public administration system, perform non-
commercial activities and for which productivity objectives cannot be ade-
quately quantified; (ii) "Recovery Plans", for public commercial enterprises
that require thorough restr'lcturing of their management and improvement in
their financial situation. Their phased implementation will usually require
three to four years; (iii) "Program Contracts', for public companies which
while carrying out commercial activities are also required to provide public
services or meet social objectives and, as a result, are entitled to Govern-
ment financial support. They will define, in particular, rules for tariff
changes and investment decisions; (iv) "Management Performance Follow-ups"
will be utilized as a precautionary measure for enterprisee in the non-
competitive sector requiring no budgetary subsidies in order to periodically
review their situation and prospects. These new devices will be introduced,
on a trial basis, in five enterprises, SATMACI, SOFBSUCRE, OPT, SOTRA, and
INTELCI, by the end of the year and will be developed for eight additional
enterprises in 1984, including CIDT, PALMINDUSTRIE, and SITRAN, the three
housing sector agencies and the two port authorities.
45.      Thirdly, the financial and technical tutelage system will be improved
through a series of measures to be implemented before December 31, 1983.
These reforms mainly aim at avoiding present duplication of inefficient
')ureaucratic controls and at reinforcing the operational responsibility of the
key controlling entity. It will also assist in ensuring rapid implementation
of recommendations of financial audits commissioned regularly by Government.
The procurement procedures used by public agencies will also be reviewed with
a view to removing built-in inefficiencies in the existing system.
Improvement in financial and technical management at the enterprise level
46.      Reorganization plans of major parastatal enterprises in the agri-
cultural sector, formulated under the SAL I program, will be implemented
according to a detailed schedule. The most important enterprise to be re-
structured is the sugar company, SODESUCRE, which is the most costly public
entity in the Ivory Coast. In charge of six production complexes, which have
1/ Acronyms used are explained in the Glossary provided at the
beginning of this report.



- 16 -
required investments amounting to about CFAF 260 billion, the company is
expected to produce 250,000 tons of sugar in 1985, the bulk of which for
exports. Even excluding debt service, the production cost of sugar is sub-
stantially above world prices and without a far-reaching recovery program the
company would 2emain a permanent drain on public finances (see para. 61 on
proposed reform). Thorough management audits will be conductec for eight
additional enterprises: SODEFEL, the entity in charge of fruit anc vegetable
development programs; OPT, the national post and telecommunication agency;
SOTRA, the Abidjan transit company; SIr'RAM, the national public shipping
enterprise; CAA, the Autonomous Debt Agency; and the three public enterprises
involved in the housing sector, SETU, SICOGI and SOGEFIHA (see para. 90).
47.      Government has already taken the necessary steps to insure the
financial equilibrium of SIR, the local refinery, which suffers from the con-
sequence of lagging demand and high cost-overruns on its recent expansion,
which was financed with short term credits. Gasoline prices have been in-
creased twice since 1980 and by the end of 1981 had reached US$3.50 a gallon.
Government has decided to keep the present price structure and fully recover
any future increase in costs from consumers. With the declining debt service
of this company this decision should generate by 1985 a CFAF 25 billion
increase in annual public savings.
C. Agriculture
Background
48.      Agriculture continues to have the main potential for expanding output
and employment, and for reduc&ng regional income imbalances in the Ivory Coast.
The spectacular growth of the Ivory Coast after independence was largely based
on the output of coffee, cocoa and timber from the forest areas of the south,
supported by a sound pricing and marketing system and supplemented by success-
ful programs of promoting state-owned palm oil and other industrial plantation
crops. In the north, which has a more limited agricultural potential, pro-
gress was slower and was mainly based on expanding cotton output and producing
foodcrops for the rising urban population.
49.      During the period of high coffee and cocoa prices after 1976, Govern-
ment used part of its increased revenues to promote development and income
distribution in the zones which had benefitted least from past growth through
investments, subsidies and social programs. It also launched a number of
poorly designed investment projects, notably the ill-conceived sugar complexes
in the North. Fortunately the proposed expensive program of investments in
soy bean production was halted, after a number of seed farms were established,
in order to study the economic feasibility of the program. Administrative
expenses of such agencies as SATMACI were permitted to grow rapidly.  In an
effort to promote agri.-ultural output outside the forest zone, the Government
started expensive free fertilizer and insecticide programs notably for cotton
farmers. Further, price distortions were introduced when the producer price
of rice was raised well above world market prices. As the consumer price was
not raised correspondingly, a large deficit arose in the agency responsible
for the sector.  A costly government program to build rice mills was also
launched. The same incentives were given to coffee and cocoa producers,



- 17 -
although coffee was more costly to produce and had better prospects. Palm oil
prices remained unchanged for five years leading small holders to cut trees
and shift to other crops.
50.      As long as CAISSTAB was able to finance these expensive spending
programs from the surpluses it was making, the inherent unsoundness of these
programs was masked. However, in the late 1970s agriculture was no longer
generating the surpluses to finance general development as its costs to the
public sector began to exceed the revenues it produced. There was, in short,
a serious need of structural reforms to correct distortions in pricing
policies, reshape ineffective institutions, and overcome serious financing
problems which threatened the survival of the main agricultural executing
agencies. As world market prospects for cocoa and coffee were no longer
favorable, future generation of rsrpluses from agricultural production would
also require further diversification of the pattern of agriculture.
Government Response
51.      The first phase of the structural adjustment program aimed at
improving the financial situation of the agricultural sector in the short-
term, producing supply responses through the implementation of initial pricing
policy changes and making agricultural institutions more cost effective. At
the same time the foundation was laid for long-term sustained development
through an improvement in the incentive system and the strengthening of the
inst,itutions responsible for preparing and implementing agricultural policy,
particularly the public investment program. The first-phase program elso
included progressive restructuring of the main public enterprizes involved in
the sector, the promotion of new agricultural research programs ar,3 the
development of a food-crop policy.
52.      The interim SAL I pricing policy was implemented, with the exception
of the increase in copra prices, which, in i982, -as considered not to be
economically justified. The whole incentf.ve system has been assessed in the
Bank financed Agricultural Price, Assistance, Tax and Subsidy Study. It will
provide a sound methodological basis to analyze further and define sound
policy changes in time for the 1983-84 agricujtural season. Coordination
between the various ministries operating in the rural sector has been improved.
The reorganization uf the planning, programming and project preparation units
of the Ministry of Agriculture and the strengthening of the state Secretariat
for foodcrops has been assisted by Bank financed technical assistance.
53.      Government raised consumer prices of rice by 18%, thereby eliminating
the subsidy on imported rice and encouraging consumption of local fooderops.
In 1982 rice imports declined by 17% as consumers turned to domestic food-
crops. In July 1982, contracts were signed with private sector firms, dena-
tionalizing the public sector rice milling and marketing operations. Studies
were initiated to prepare a comprehensive program for improvement in market-
ing, storage, and transportation facilities for other fooderops. In anticipa-
'ion of the development of a national seed policy the Govarnment, so as to
give some token support to food crop production, provided as a one shot
operation, free seeds to rice and maize farmers.



- 18 -
54.      The financial recovery programs of three of the most important agri-
cultural agencies, PALMINDUSTRIE, SATMACI, and CIDT, have been implemented and
management audits coLpleted. The phased implementation of the management
studies recommendations should ensure lasting progress. The audit of SIVETG,
the fertilizer company, was commissioned by the Government. It indicated that
the company is relatively well managed and will provide the basis for ratio-
nalizing its relation with Government in the context of the new fertilizer
policy to be implemented under the new program (see para 56 b and c below).
The SODESUCRE audit was completed in MPy 1983. It defines options for a
detailed rehabilitation program. The remaining three audits of SODEPRA,
SODEFOR, and MOTORAGRI will be completed by the end of August 1983. A
thorough assessment of agricultural research policy was completed in October
1982 and the main recommendations have been reviewed by the Bank and the
Government. Preliminary measures to reorganize two of the mnst impoitant
research centers have already been imple..ented.  Further steps will include
improvements in the dissemination of research results and the channels of
communication between agricultural research and extension services.
Action Program
55.      Under SAL II the Government will continue the process of restruc-
turing agriculture under four major policy headings with accompanying action
programs as follow3:
Price and Subsidy Policy
56.      Government has agreed to take the following actions:
(a) The consumer price of rice will in the future be adjusted regularly
so as to ensure that there is no subsidy to domestic consumers of
imported rice. The purpose of this is to eliminate any subsidy to
domestic consumers resulting from rising prices in CFA francs due to
exchange rate adjustments or higher international rice prices and to
safeguard the production and consumption of traditional dome3tic food
crops for which rice is becoming an important substitute.
(b) Fertilizer subsidies will be progressively phased out over a three
year period starting next season. In the first phase, free distribu-
tion of fertilizer for cotton will be stopped, and a price of CFAF 48
per kilo (ex factory) will be charged to cotton producers who will
also bear marketing charges and transport costs.
(c) The importation of fertilizers will be liberalized. The national
producer, SIVENG, will benefit from an export subsidy to be imple-
mented as part of the industrial policy reforms to be introduced
before December 31, 1983.
(d) The producer price of both coffee and cocoa will be raised by
October 31, 1983, and Government will finance a pruning program for
rehabilitating aging coffee trees, thereby establishing a differen-
tial incentive in favor of coffee. These measures are designed to
induce farmers to maintain existing plantations without expanding



- 19 -
acreage.  Accordingly, the price risot will be less than the rate of
inflation since the last rise took place 5 years ago. Government
will also analyze the possibility of introducing quality premiums. A
new pricing system will be set up this year for small holder rubber
planters based on world market prices, adjusted quarterly, with
deductions for the cost of collection, transportation and marketing
currently borne by Government.
(e) An increase in cotton prices from CFAF 80 to CFAF 100 per kg. will be
introduced to compensate farmers for the rise in fertilizer costs.
It is expected, as a result, that production will be concentrated in
the areas most suitable for growing cotton and that cultivation in
marginal areas will shift to fool-crop production.
(f) A significant increase in the selling price of palm oil produced by
PALKINDUSTRIE to local refineries will be introduced before the end
of 1983. This will complete the realignment of palm oil prices to
world market levels begun under SAL I wheil the prices of palm oil
bunches were raised after five years of no change.
(g) The price of copra will be raised providing the economic analysis
currently being undertaken justifies this action.
(h) The Government has decided to initiate a series of annual reviews
with the Bank on agricultural prices and subsidies. The first of
these reviews will take place no later than September 30, 1983.
Agricultural Public Enterprise Reform
57.      Under the second phase of the structural adjustment program, th?
basic restructuring of the three main rural development agencies will be
completed. Studies will be completed or started for other agricultural
agencies leading to specific reforms to make them more cost effective and
better able to define and carrj out sound sector policies.
58.      PALMINDUSTRIE.  A major improvement will be the transfer of marketing
responsibility from CAISSTAB to PALMINDUSTRIE by October 1, 1983, accompanied
by a rise in the oil palm selling price. Early in 1983 the company entered
into a management contract with a specialized international film which will
strengtren its management and organization in accordance with an agreed tiue-
table, on the basis of a detailed audit carried out in 1982.
59.      CIDT has been the subject of detailed examination in the pat years,
aimed at improving its financial, administrative and technical organization
and reducing its costs. A detailed program of reforms is being finalized
(including decentralization of CIDT, and renegotiation of its arrangements
with its foreign partners). The elimination of fertilizer subsidies (see para
46(b) above) will reduce the financial risks that CIDT has had to bear on the
operations it undertakes on behalf of the Government. The ultimate objective
is to transfer the marketing responsibility of cotton to CIDT and to have the
company financing its cotton activities from ite own resources. Respective
rights and obligations of CIDT and the Government would be formalized in a
program contract.



- 20 -
60.      SATMACI.  The final recommendations of the management audit including
a revision of its statutes are being reviewed by the Government ar.d the Bank.
The audit concluded that extension services should be reorganized in order to
provide, instead of a standardized package, services designed to meet the
varying client needs in different sub-regions. This implies a decenitraliza-
tion of the company and training of extension agents to deal with multi-crop
programs.  SATMACI's commercial depaetment has been given greater financial
autonomy and now stocks and distributes, on a commercially viable basis, only
those inputs which are not generally carried by private sector distributors.
It is expected that the private sector distribution system will gradually
increase the range of its stocks and t' .t SATMACI wil'. consequently move out
of the input distribution business. Tne Bank and the Government will agree on
a reorganization program for this company by December 31, 1983.
6t.      SODESUCRE faces severe technical, financial and marketing problems.
Its recurrent deficits resulting from high production costs, large debt
servicing, and social obligations are an important financial drain on the
Treasury. In 1982-83, transfe-rs from the Government to SODESUCRE amounted to
CFAF 62 billion (of which CFAF 39 billion for debt service). There is an
obvious need to improve performance on the six estates and in iverall
SODESUCRE management. For this reason the Government in 1982 commissioned a
detailed examination of technical, economic and managerial pe-formance of the
enterprise's activities, covering all aspects ranging from basic cultivation
to exporting and overall organization. A rehabilitation program is currently
being discussed by the Government and the Bank. The program will address such
technical aspects as planting methods, cane varieties, irrigation, harvesting,
cane processing, factory management, internal marketing and export arrange-
ments, and utilization of by-products.  It will include detailed assessment of
staffing, the financial ieeds of SODESUCRE and timetable for the implementa-
tion of the rehabilitation program. SODESUCRE personnel has recently been cut
by 7%. The first phase of this program will be implemented bef-re
December 31, 1983.
Other Enterprises
62.      A management audit will be undertaken for SODEFEL (fruit and vegeta-
bles) during 1983. Government will discuss recommendations of the studies
completed on SODEFOR, SODEPRA, and MOTORAGRI, with the Bank before the end of
August 1983 in order to develop a program of agreed reform implemeAtation.
Foodcrop Policy
63.      The primary immediate focus of national policy to promote foodcrops
will be the new system of prices and subsidies discussed above. Government is
undertaking a study to define a medium-term strategy and to enable it to
launch projects to improve seeds, storage, transport and more efficient crop
marketing and will encourage the maximum participation of private initiative
and capital in this effort.



- 21 -
Other actions
64.      Government has become increasingly aware of the need for closer and
more systematic coordination between the various ministries involved in
agricultural policy. It will consequently take steps to strengthen several
inter-ministerial committees involved and is considering regrouping them into
a National Committee for Rural Development.  Other actions to be taken under
phase two in this respect include:
(a) developing an improved nationwide system of agricultural statistics
and introducing more advanced analytical tools to assist in the
design of further policy reforms.
(b) developing ne-w long-term policies for the supply and distribution, on
a national scale. of improved seeds; the mechanisation of small-
holder farming and improvements in agricultural credit;
D. industry
65.      Since independence, the industrial sector has been one of the most
dynamic elements in the Ivorian economy. Between 1960 and 1979, the indust-
rial sector grew at an average annual rate of 13 percent per year in real
terms, and its share in GDP rose from 4 to 12 percent over the same interval.
Since 1980, however, the industrial sector has been going through a period of
recession and stagnation.  Between 1980 and 1981, value added in the private
industrial sector decreased by 5 percent in real terms, Vhile industrial
exports decreased by 6 percent and investment by 20 percent in real terms. In
1982, industrial output stagnated and private industrial investment decreased
further.
Policy Issues
66.      Although the world recession and the present unfavorable circum-
stances of the Ivorian economy may explain to a certain extent the deterio-
ration observed since 1980, the resum-,tion of efficient and lasting growth of
industrial activity will depend on solutions to the structural weaknesses
affecting Ivorian industry, namely (i) excessive protection and lack of com-
petitivity of manufacturing activities; (ii) discrimination in the system of
incentives against exports; (iii) disincentives to the deepening of the
industrial structure and (iv) weakness of industrial promotion policies, in
particular in favor of small and medium-scale enterprises.
(i)    Excessive protection and lack of competitiveness of manufacturing
activities
67.      Up to the mid 1970s, the Ivory Coast went through an initial phase of
industrialization based on continuous expansion of the domestic market and on
the development of the West African Economic Community regional markets. This
growth took place in the context of a relatively simple system of incentives,
based on a moderate tariff schedule that applied fairly uniform protection
between the different branches, and without need for quantitative import
restrictions



- 22 -
68.      In 1973, the Government changed the Customs Code which resulted in
an increase in the degree of tariff escalation according to the level of
processing, and in substantial distortions in the degree of effective protec-
tion given to particular industrial branches. However, despite this increase
in effective tariff protection, manufacturing enterprises became increasingly
uflLble to compete with imports, following the acceleration in the rate of
domestic inflation after 1975, which increased the cost of labor without
corresponding gains in productivity. The competitiveness of Ivorian manufac-
turing enterprises was further eroded by the sharp appreciation of the CFA
franc which followed the coffee and cocoa boom in 1977. The Government
responded to that situation by increasing its recourse to quantitative
restrictions, both in the form of import licensing and prior import agree-
ments, in particular in the textiles sector. This encouraged the development
of uncompetitive import substitution activities, which generated foreign
exchange savings at a high cost in terms of domestic resources.
(ii)    Discrimination against exports
69.      While the production of manufactured goods for sale on the domestic
market expanded in the framework of a distorted system of protection, the
Government failed to implement an adequate system of export incentives to
counterbalance the bias against export3 inherent in the system of industrial
incentives.
70.      Until the second half of the seventies, exports of manufactured
products grew rapidly, essentially within the protected CEAO zone, and the
need for an adequate export incentive system was therefore not directly
perceived. However, with the most obvious opportunities for exports within
tne CEAO region already exploited, further growth of exports will crucially
depend on the ability of the Ivory Coast to break into non-protected regional
and international markets.  The inEC market could provide interesting oppor-
tunities in future years, as Ivory Coast exports to the Community are
presently very small, even though they enjoy duty-free entry in the framework
of the Lome agreement. In this perspective, the strong bias against exports
inherent in the present system needs to be corrected by an adequate system of
export incentives.
(iii)    Disincentives to the deepening of the industrial structure
71.      The development of a vigorous sector of local producers of inter-
mediate products has been systematically discouraged by the system of indust-
rial incentives in the Ivory Coast. This is d'ze essentially to (a) the high
degree of tariff escalation according to the degree of processing, (b) tariff
exemptions on intermediate inputs for priority firms under the Investment
Code, and (c) duty-free entry, under the temporary admission scheme, of
certain intermediate inputs which could be produced locally at a comparative
advantage under a revised system of incentives.



- 23 -
(iv)    Weakness of promotion policies for small and medium-scale enterprises
72.      Past government efforts to promote this sector have been largely
inadequate, essentially due to the poor management and the lack of coordi-
nation of the public entities in charge of the technical and financial
assistance to small and medium-scale enterprises. Furthermore, the poor
performance of these public entities has hampered the development of financial
intermediation for the sector. The structure of these pubLic entities and
their role needs to be thoroughly changed, with a view to developing a
framework more conducive to private initiative in the sector.
Government Response
73.      SAL I provided a framework for the intensification of the dialogue
between the Government and the Bank on the key issues facing the future devel-
opment of the industrial sector.  The G3vernment has defined the fundameata}
objectives of a major reorientation es industrial policy, changing the system
of industrial incentives and the role of the institutions in charge of
industrial promotion, in particular for small and medium-scale enterprises.
74.      The design of this program is being carried out by several working
groups, composed of civil servants and resident technical advisors from the
Ministry of Industry and Planning, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry
of Commerce. These wor'king groups are coordinated by a steering committee,
composed of high-level civil servants from the three ministries, under the
direction of the Cabinet of the Ministry of Industry and Planning. The
steering committee is reinforced by two long-term technical advisors financed
under the Bank's technical assistance loan (IVC-2059).
75.      The central aim of the reform to be implemented is to restore the
conditions for vigorous and sustained growth of the sector over the medium to
long term, by providing manufacturing enterprises with a coherent system of
iacentives that will give equal encouragement to exports and to the integra-
tion of local industry. The core of the reform will be an across-the-board
tariff-cum-subsidy scheme, that will harmonize effective tariff protection
between th2 different branches of activity, and will compensate exporters for
the level of effective tariff protection granted to domestic sales and for any
overvaluation of the exchange rate that exists. The tariff-cum-subsidy scheme
will be made fully effective by the abolition of the system of quantitative
import rescrictions, after a transitionary period during which these restric-
tions will be replaced by temporary import surcharges that will decline over
time.
76.      The reorientation of the new industrial policy focusses on five main
elements: (i) Reform of the system of export incentives; (ii) Reform of the
system of tariff and non-tariff protection; (iii) Revision of the Investment
Code and of domestic taxation; (iv) Reform of the institutions in ckarge of
industrial promotion; and (v) Identification and implementation of additional
measures to improve the competitiveness of industrial enterprises.



- 24 -
Reform of the system of export incentives
71.      The essential objective is to eliminate the bias against exports
inherent in the present system of industrial incentives. To this end, the
Government has decided to implement a comprehensive system of export
incentives for all manufactured goods comprising:
-    An across-the-board subsidy on value added for manufactured exports
to countries outside the West African Economic Comminity;
-    a preferential export financing scheme, and in the medium-term, a
system for export insurance.
Reform of the system of tariff and non-tariff protection
78.      In order to improve the competitiveness of the industrial sector and
to intensify the network of local interindustrial relationships, a comprehen-
sive revision of the tariff system and a progressive elimination of quantita-
tive import restrictions will be undertaken.
79.      Effective tariff protection rates applying to different branches of
industry and, within each branch, to different levels of processing, will be
harmonized through a comprehensive reform of the Customs Code. At the same
time, quantitative restrictions (both quotas and prior authorization require-
ments) will be phased out and replaced by temporary import surcharges. These
surcharges will decline over time, and will be eliminated within five years of
theiz- implementation.
Revision of the Investment Code and of domestic taxation
80.      The Investment Code will be revised to encourage the creation of new
industrial enterprises without discriminating against local suppliers of
intermediate inputs to these new activities. In particular, the provision
allowing priority firms to import intermediate inputs duty-free will be
abolished. At the same time, a series of new incentives will be introduced on
the basis of criteria related to employment creation, training, and installa-
tion outside Abidjan. Moreover, provisions will be introduced to facilitate
the access of small and medium-scale enterprises to the new Code, which will
also contain specific incentives tailored to their needs.
81.      The revision of domestic taxation aims at removing distortions that
remain in the present tax system in particular through the progressive
generalization of the value added tax system to cover the first processing of
agricultural raw materials, as well as the provision of adequate fiscal
incentives for new firms which do not apply for priority agreements under the
Investment Code.
Reform of the institutions in charge of industrial promotion
82.      The objective of the Governwent is to abandon the reliance on purely
public initiatives for industrial promotion, and to develop joint ventures



- 25 -
with the private sector in this field. The Government has decided to dis-
mantle the ineffective public entity in charge of the promotion of small and
medium-scale eaterprises, and to replace it with two small parapublic agencies
with limited and qualified staff. The first agency will be in charge of
providing technical assistance to small and medium-scale enterprises. The
second will provide essential financial support exclusively to these enter-
prises. Moreover, the Gcvernment will set up, in conjunction with the private
sector, an industrial promotion bureau which will serve as a focal point for
potential investors in the country.
Identification and implementation of additional measures to improve the
competitiveness of industrial enterprises
83.      The Government has decided to undertake a series of studies to
determine measures that could raise factor productivity and the efficiency of
industrial operations. These studies will focus in particular on improvements
that can be made in social legislation, in particular with respect to training
and pay policy, and on the possibility of increasing the proportion of
production-related bonuses in wages.
Action Program
84.      In order to achieve these objectives, the Government will implement
an action program in two successive stages of an Interim Program, which takes
major initial steps and a Medium-Term Program, designed to achieve fully the
objectives of the new industrial policy.
85.      Interim Program:  The Government will, before June 30, 1984,
implement three successive packages of policy changes. (For further details,
see Annex 5.)
(a) Before September 30, 1983, the Council of Ministers will adopt the
draft Revised Investment Code as well as the decrees for the creation
of the new parapublic agencies for the promotion of small and medium-
scale enterprises. Within the same time frame, decrees will also be
enacted to establish a scheme for the acceleration of value added tax
reimbursements to exporters, and the necessary steps will be taken
with UMOA to make manufactured exports eligible for the Preferential
Discount Rate.
(b)  Before December 31, 1983, the Government will implement the first
phase of the export incentive reform, by the introduction in the 1984
Finance Law of a subsidy on value added on exports to non-CEAO
countries for textiles, wood processing, fertilizers and agro-
industries (with the exception of coffee and cocoa processing).
These sectors cover 52 percent of industrial value added. The first
phase of the global tariff reform will be implemented by raisig
tariffs on intermediate imports in these sectors, and in chemicals,
plastics and engineering industries. These tariff reforms will cover
an estimated 60 percent of industrial value added. In addition, the
extension of the value added tax deductibility to certain goods and
the extension of the value added tax system to activities engaged in



- 26 -
the first processing of agricultural raw materials will be imple-
mented. A project appraisal unit will be established within the
Ministry of Industry and Planning, and an industrial promotion bureau
will be set up in conjunction with the private sector.
(c)  Before March 31, 1984, quantitative restrictLons on imports will be
abolished for a first list of products representing 40% of Local
value added produced under quantitative restrictions. They will be
replaced by temporary import surcharges, declining over time, for a
period not exceeding five years.
(d) Before June 30, 1984, the Draft Law establishing an acror-s-the-board
subsidy on value added on manufactured exports to non-CEAO'countries
will be presented to the National Assembly. This Law would lead to
the generalization of the system begun under the first phase,
discussed in (b) above.
r .      Medium-Term Program:  Over the medium-term, the Government will
mplement a series of policy packages leading to the full reform of the system
f industrial incentives.  Each phase of this program will be prepared on the
*asis of a detailed analysis of the impact of the reforms on existing and new
.ndustries. In addition, the successive phases will be tuned in light of the
experience gained during the preceding phases.
37.      At this stage, the Government has agreed on an indicative schedule
'or the completion of the reform. The Government's objective is that the
subsidy on value added for manufactured exports and the reform of the customs
tariff should be generalized by mid-1985. The phasing out of quantitative
restrictions and their replacement with temporary import surcharges is
expected to be completed by the end of 1986.  The Government will pursue the
reform of the system of domestic taxation, in particular through the generali-
zation of the value added tax system to all activities engaged in the first
processing of agricultural raw materials by the end of 1986. Furthermore, the
Government intends to implement measures geared to impr^-;e labor productivity,
in particular with respect to training and pay policy.
E. Housing Policy
88.      During the nineteen sixties and seventies, the Government played a
very major role in housing investment in the Ivory Coast. By 1980 the two
principal public sector housing agencies, SICOGI and SOGEFIHA, had between
them built some 70,000 high standard permanent housing units, 80% of which
were in urban areas, predominantly in Abidjan. Urban growth over this period
proceeded at a very rapid pace. Abidjan, which in 1960 had a population of
160,000 is now a booming metropolis of 1.8 million people and is continuing to
grow at 10% p.a., as are several secondary cities. This growth has led to
urban housing needs which are overwhelmingly beyond the limited contribution
that a public housing program could make. The Government's earlier investment
in housing not only catered essentially to a segment of middle and upper
income households but was highly subsidized, contributing to heavy recurrent
public sector deficits, while the bulk of the urban population depended upon
the informal sector for their housing needs. These deficits had reached



- 27 -
massive proportions by the late 1970s and early 1980s. By 1982 civil servant
housing was costing the State over CFAF 30 billion a year. In addition in
this year SOGEFIHA, which is entirely Government owned, was still incurring a
debt service charge of nearly CFAF 12 billion, despite the fact that its
domestic debt had recently been consolidated. Only half of SOGEFIHA's debt
service could be covered by self-generated funds, since the level of cost
recovery was extremely low. The structure of public housing rents in the
Ivory Coast has been frozen since 1970 when rents were reduced by 20%. Since
more than half of SOGEFIHA debt consists of short-term external borrowing,
recent exchange rate changes have added to its debt service burden. SICOGI,
on the other hand, has in recent years been just able to cover its costs, but
only because its housing programs were funded with long-term subsidized
financing provided from government sources.
Government ResDonse
89.      In the light of the financial and economic constraints facing the
country, the Government is, as part of its adjustment process, prepared to
make fundamental and radical changes in its housing policies involving a major
shift in housing investment from the public to the private sector. It is, as
part of its SAL II program, redefining its role in the housing sector with the
objectives of reducing public expenditures and subsidies, improving the focus
and effectiveness of Government's intervention in the sector, and increasing
the mobilization of private savings and the role of the private sertor in the
formal housing market.  Key elements of the Government's program uf reform
include:
(a) A shift in the bulk of public investment in the housing sector from
the provision of limited numbers of completed housing units to
providing large quantities of serviced land, the major part of which
would consist of plots with minimum initial service standards afford-
able by low income households, designed to be upgraded in the longer
term. This program will also include plots for medium and upper
ircome groups to be s3ld at market prices, enabling the public sector
to capture surpluses arising from locational and other advantages.
(b)  Peasures to stimulate the mobilization of private savings for housing
construction, including new systems and mechanisms for savings
collection and the organization of housing finance, as well as the
possible development of a secondary mortgage market and other means
of attracting long-term funds to the housing finance market.
(c) Increasing Government revenues from its housing stock, by selling
part of it, reducing gradually the large gap between market prices
and public housing charges, substantially cutting the civil servant
housing bill and improving the tax collection system.
(d) Reorientation of the roles and the cost recovery systems of SETU, the
public land development agency and of the two public housing agencies
SICOGI and SOGEFIHA and implementing programs for putting these
enterprises on a sound and self-sustaining financial basis.



- 28 -
(e) A program to develop the private domestic house building, contracting
and building material industries.
Action Program
90.      To achieve the above program of reform, the Government has developed
a program of action which is spelled out in detail in its Letter of Develop-
ment Policy (see Annex 5). The key steps to be taken include the following:
(i) The Government has begun implementing a program of civil servant
housing reform involving a sharp reduction in the number of people
entitled to housing, the introduction of small housing allowances for
those formerly receiving free housing and discontinuing the furniture
replacement program. Occupants of state-owned housing will also be
charged maintenance fees. These measures are expected to reduce the
Government's civil servant housing bill by over CFAF 15 billion per
annum beginning in 1983.
(ii) As a first step toward the provision of large quantities of serviced
land, a preliminary land development program will be formulated by
July 31, 1983. Pursuing the same objective, a major reorganization
of SETU, the Government land development agency, including its system
of charges, will be undertaken following an in-depth study of the
agency's technical, financial and commercial operations. This study
will be completed by September 30, 1983. A key objective of SETU's
new role and of the enlarged land development program it will under-
take is to encourage private ownership of residential property and
the private investment in the construction of housing.
(iii) The program to increase rental revenue from public housing will
include the following measures: (a) the operating and maintenance
costs of SOGEFIHA's rental property will be charged to tenants; (b) a
program to increase rents of public housing will be initiated, and
fixed rents will be replaced gradually by a system of automatic
escalation, based on the index of wages and salaries in the construc-
tion sector; and (c) rents for new tenancies, either for new units or
arising from a change of tenants, will be set to cover full unit
costs including land and its development costs and financing charges
of the public development company. These measures will be initiated
before March 31, 1984, and are targeted to cover all public housing
rentals by June 30, 1985.
(iv)  A financial recovery plan for SOGEFIHA, based on sales of some of its
rental property, raising rents and reducing operating costs is
nearing completion. It is expected to reduce public subsidies by
about CFAF 1 billion in 1984. A detailed study of the future role of
SOGEFIHA, which is no longer building but merely managing its
existing stock of housing, will be completed by December 31, 1983.
(v) SICOGI's role will be redefined on the basis of a detailed study to
be completed by September 30, 1983. Particular attention will be
paid to pricing and affordability analysis with a view to enabling



- 29 -
SICOGI to launch new unsubsidized programs targeted on lower income
group3. SICOGI's role will essentially be a demonstrative ono-
First, it will produce, or help the private sector produce, core
housing to be progressively completed by private owners with incomes
between one and two times the minimum legal wage. Second, for house-
holds with incomes between two and four times the minimum wage, it
will develop pilot schemes of units for sale or lease-purchase, to
substantiate the technical feasibility and financial viability of
constructing low-cost fully developed lnits for this segment of the
market, which private developers have so far largely ignored.
(vi) A program to sell between 5,000 and 6,000 public housing units will
be initiated, with the first 1,000 units being offered for sale by
June 30, 1983.
(vii) The 1984 budgets and appropriations for SETU, SICOGI and SOGEFIHA
will reflect the new policies and objectives assigned to them under
this program.
(viii) A simplified cadastral survey system will be adopted in four
secondary cities by March 31, 1984, to improve land tax receipts.
(ix) The Government will, before the end of September 1983, establish a
Special Committee for the development of financial intermediation for
social housing. This Committee will include representatives of the
main public and private organizations involved in the housing sector
and in housing finance. It will be responsible for preparing and
directing at the policy level a new system of housing credit, for
developing new mechanisms to mobilize private and institutional
savings and to encourage home-ownership, and for providing guidance
on the use of public resources so as to stimulate private involvement
in the field of social housing. Major elements of this new system of
housing finance are expected to be operational before the end of
December 31, 1983.
(x) A program to develop the private domestic construction, building,
civil engineering and building material industries will be intro-
duced, on the basis of a comprehensive study, before December 31,
1983.



- 30 -                                                    page I of b
TAILS T1
Strictural Ieume and SeoPe of Proposed SAL II
Contribution to          Aetion  taken under       SAL II                       Timtable                  Related Acti0on
Structural Adjustment   SAL I                       Action Program
Mac roeconod c
Management
-Strengthening of         -Creation of a            -Enhance capacity to                                IPIDlE?
central decision-         Financial                 formulate                                           -Implementation of
mAking process            Coordination and          mcroeconomic policy                                 stringhnt monetary
Inventmnt Control         by. Inter alla.                                     policy
Col ttee                  developing new                                      -Ceiling on external
-Integra tion of oil      economde models                                     borrowing and
resource  In the                                                              improvemnt In debt
budgetary procedure                                                            sturity structure
-Partial trmnnfer of
Calmetab surplus to
CAA
-Reduction of public      -Implementatlin of a      -Continuation of          -Adoption of a            -Reduction of Public
finances deficit          financial recovery        prenent atringent         financial program for    finance deficit
progrm                    fiscal and monetary       1984 acceptable to        -Increase in tariff
policies                  the lank prlor to         and In prices of
second tranche            subsidized products
release                   -Thorough reviw    of
the tax system and of
current expendltures
-Improve private                                    -Implementation of a      -Establishbmnt of         -Monitoring of
resouresn                                           renovated sytem  to       lationel Social           Interest rate policy
sobilization                                        mobilize prlte            Housing Credit System
savings for housing       by Dec.. 1983
-Implementation of a      -Pirit stage
promotion agency for      arrangemente by Dec..
lndustr-al                1983
developen t and
reform of the
incentives for SMEn
investment



page 2 of b
- 31 -
TABUL II
Structural Issues nnd Scope of Propnoed SAL II (aont'd)
1lbutlonm  to        Actions taken under       SAL II                       Tintble                 Related Actions
=--:tural Adj-itwnt    SAL I                      Action Program
c Investment Policy
I_rovement In            -Improvement in the       -ImplementatIon of         -eay 1983                 IMF/IR":
c Investment         echss directeur           sectoral "sebinms                                    -Aasesinnt of
-Ifng. Programming                               directeurs"                                          financtal I mplicaton
'Pi nancing System    -Rehabilitation of a      -Complete Integration    -July 1983                  of Public Inveetent
three year revolving      of public                                            level
programdng sysiem         enterprise&               -Adoption of a 1984
resources transfers       Ineet_ent Program          Rank:
end Investment            *:e ptable to the         -Assessment of
budgeta In the Lol-       Bank by end  983          *eetoral lnvestent
Programme                                           planning In
Education. Health.
Energy end Transport
under project leading
-Integration of           -Allocation or            -Review of *genelee
Inrentment                Calsetab funds            1984 budget by Dee
expendi tures funded      earmarked for             1983
by Cdaistnb In the        lnvestoents by
Inventment Budget         prlori ty to
agricultural agencies
-Implementation of a      -Generalization of
quarterly reporting       the quarterl;y
system for Important      reporting system
Investments
IpoTvement In            -Improvement In           -StandardIzation and       -Introduction of a        Host of the Dank
- -ture and quality    projects technical        generalization of         foraal economic            projects
7 .Ablic InTentnent     and financial              economic apprainal        anenesent for ell          -Implementation of a
- -- --'em                appraisals and            process                    new projects co ting      systemtic economic
reduction of risks of    -Reinforcement of          sore than CPA! 1           evaluation procedure
coat overruns             Programing and            billion::  Nov 83          In the highway sector
Evaluation Units in                                 loan
technical mdnIstries
S=-rol of recurrent    -Tariff Increasee           -Further improvement       -Introduction of a        IMF/EFF:
_ ditures             -First step  In           In recurrent cost          progren budget yetea    -1iscal end pricing
rnlsilng coet recovery    level and recovery        for the Education          meaures to increase
levels in the             schemes In housing        Sector: 1984               Government savings
education sector          and education                                        Bank:
-Improvement of cost-
recovery systam
under urban and power
projects



- 32 -                                                       pages3 of 6
TABLE II
Structural leeuse and Scope of Proposed SAL II (contcd)
Contributions to          letions taken under        SAD II                       Timetable                Relnted Actions
Structural Adjustment    SAL I                       Actien Progrm
Public fnterprines
Management
To reduce financial
deficit or the
sector:
-Strengthening and         -Progressive               -Series of measures        -by the end of 1983        IMY/EFF:
improving financial        Impleuentation of the    to rationalize the                                      -Strengthening of the
control of the sector    1980 reform                  control eyetem and to    -Strengthen control          conditione for
-Liquidation of            reinforce Its              over management of         assessing and
unviable enterprises       efficleney                 guaranteed                 monitoring the
borrowings:  Aug. 83       guaranteed debt
-Intitutionallzation      -First steps to            -Implementation of a       -Implementation for
of an eff'icient          improve financial           comprehensive              the transportation
monitoring system          controle and monitor       financial and              sector by the end of
local and external        economic monitoring         1983
borrowlngs                 system of the sector       -Generalization by
end of 1984
To Improve the
efficiency of the
sector:
-Improvement in            -Completion of a           -Further                   -Agreed detailed           -Increase In tariff
management and             series of 8                implementatlon of          timetable for each         and prices when
economic and               senagenent audits and   eopletec                     enterprise                 neceeeery
fInancial                  preparation of             rehabilitation
prof tability nt the       rebabilitation plans       programs                                              Bank:
enterprise level           -Initastion of their       -Carrying out a new        -to be completed by        -TA loan support
Implementation            series of 8                 June 84                    -Agricultural and
-Increase In tariffs       sunagement audito for                                 Forestry projects
for most public           SODEJRL, OPT. SOTRA,                                   -Tariff  Isuese under
servicee                   SETU, SICOXI.                                         power, urban,
SOCSlIRA* SITRAM and                                  telecommunication,
CU                                                    and railways projects
-Rationalization of        -Short-tern financial    -Introduction of a           -Implementation for a    CCCE:
the economic               rehabilitation            new relationship            firat group of             -Implementation of a
management of the          program  of three         system between              enterprises SAthACI,       complementary
sector                    major perastatals In        Government and             50DESOUCRE  OPT  SOTRA    restructuration
the agricultural          parastatals                and INTELCI by              program  focussing on
sector                                                December 1983              5 agricultural
agencies. SOTRA and
EECI, the national
-Re-examlnation of         -by the end of 83 for    power compny and on
the statutes of            the agrirultural           training needs
SATACI, SODEFOR, the    agencies, by June 84
two parts authorities    for the three others
and CAA



-3-                                                     ope.
f"AUL II
Structural INse. and Sole of Pronged SAL I1 (cont d)
Contribution, to         Actiona taken under      SA U                       TietableR hRlted Action.
Structural Adjuatent   SAL I                      Action PrDams
Agricultural Policy
-Rati onllstton of      -Iaplementat on of -     -Iefineomat of the        -Pricing policy           Bank:
the lncontlve sytes      I nterim pricing         athodoloW urnd for        conaultatioa with        -All Lgriaultural
policy and cowpletion    Incantiva aaeauaant       the Bank by 9/83         projects
of a comprehensive       and provielon of a        -Adoption of a new       I/UP:
etudy on inoentivem      set of anmnal             priing policy for        -Strong support of
recoeandatione for      rubber boad on world    reform
pri5e  and eubeidle      priae by 03/83
changes                  -30% 1 nereeae In
producers cotton
priose by 09/83
-Increase In
produeers price of
coffee and cocoa and
financing of a
prualng program for
coffee by 10/8
-Periodical review of    -April 1983
conrumer rie price
IN order to eldlanate
any subeidy on
imported rie*
-Impleesntation of a
first staeg  of          -by Noveaber 1983
progra  to phas  out
fertilizer euteidlee
-Increase in prime
for pals oil ad          -Nay 1983
cotton needa to local
factorte-
-Ieatructuring of        -Nansgeaent audits of    -Implementation of        -Lel led                 Ml*k:
agricultural agencies    7 agricultural sector    reforg  of                iple_ntation              -Center Woet and
inatitutiona             agricultural ageaciem    schedule for refore       Third Rual
-Firat etep  of          studied under SAL I       of ech enterprise        Development project;
peratatale               (SODERSU;                 -7S reduction in
rebabilitation           PALNIISTRIE.             SODUCORE pereonnel
-settlement of           SATS1CI. CIDT.            by 6/83
arrears of the 3         30S37OR, SODEPRA.         -lank rev    of CID.
principal aector         ftORACRI)                 SATStCI, SODUCRI
inotl tutiona            -Nanagerwnt audit of     and PAIlICOSTRD
SODEWL                   budgets for 1984
-Transfer of
mrketing
reponaibiltiee froa
Cietssab to
PADINDUSTItIE by
10/83
-Reflonemt of            -Reinforcesant of         -Iaprorement fi          -Iaple_ntation of         lOk:
agricultural             planning and              coordination for         agreed orientations       -Developent of ound
deelopmnt etrategy       programming               etrategy definition      of public invastmet       ineatent projecte
cApaoetiv                                          progra  by mid 83        in lubber and 01I
-Denationalization of    -Further prograes in      -Formulation of frat    Pals
locnl rice d llng        food crop development    etepe by 12/83            -Isplementiton of
and erketing             program                                            integrated rurel
-A-eeem_nt of            -lsple--ntateon of                                 devlopeat progim.
research policy          recondationa                                       -Propoed projects to
folloing                                           deal with food crop
roeassmsnt of                                     resoerch and
resarch                                            eaketing issue
-Preparation of long-
tear gechaniation
and ead poliies_
TABLE _I



_5 U*                                                    p g  5 of 6
Structurnl  meum  md SoODe ot PropOed SAL 11 (oC t d)
Contributions to          Actions takes under        BAL  I                        imeotable                 Related Actionm
Structural Adjustment    SAL I                       Aation Program
Indumtrial Policy
-To Improve               -Studies of the            -Rationalimation of        -Pirnt *tep. by 12/83    Bank.
competitiveness,          symtem of incentive        the fimoal policy                                     Preparation of an
reduce effective          policy                     -3btabliehmsnt of          -by 12/83                  industrial mector loan
protection and                                       project evaluation                                    -Agreement on the first
increase produativity                                unit                                                  phase of the medium term
-Revision of              -Adoption by 09/83.         program  by 03/84.
lnvestment Code           submiusion to               Initiation of its
national amnambly by       tuplamentatlon by 06/84
12/63
-Review of the leg 1      -by 12/83
wa*o frmework
-To increase exports,    -Preparation of a           -Implementation of en    -Firnt list of kwy
counterbalance bias       phased comprehensive       export subsidy scoeme    branches 12/83;
against exports            reform of the                                        -Submiasion to
inherent in the           incentive symtem                                      national ammmbly of
lncontive sy,tem                                                                the law for
generalization by
06/84
-Scheme for               -by 09/83
acceleration of value
added tax
reimburnaemnt
-Uligibillty of           -Proposal to UhNA by
exports to                09/83
preferential diacount
rate
-Studies for the
setablish -nt of
export finsneing nd
lnmuraneo achases
-Study of freight
problem                   -by 09/83
-To improve roeourea                                 -Reform the system  of    -Pirat liat of key
allocation and                                       incentives for value       branch.. 12/83;
enhance the sectors                                  added on domeatic
ntegration,                                          sales based on an
harmonize effective                                  increase of fiscal
protection                                           duty on intormediate
products                  -Firat list of
-Replacement of QRs       products by 03/84;
by a degreasive
import surharge
-To develop a network    -Assessment of              -Reform of agencies        -by fl/83                  -IFC projects
of private SEEs,          performnce of the          in charge of SlEO                                     -DFC proj-ets
reform promotion          present promotion          promotoon
policy                    ysetea.  Preparation       -Creation of an            -by .'/83
of Ita reform             lnvstaent proaotion
agency
-R tionalisation of       -by 12/83
Incentive for
reinvestment



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pg  Iet SL_ ea-
Stmoaturamo ssmes me moose of proused SML ri (coat,d)
- lbtiae  to           Ation  tkso undo.       SA. U                     tetble                     d  c
-----e-~tural ad,taj t   SAL                   Act10n Prorxm
ringl1 Polic
n=rientstion of        -Preparatory studies    -Preparation of an      -by 07/83                -Preparetiom of
Lc Ilvesteent       undertke  with lbek iitial urbla lnd                                    proposd Rousin
_ru toward           assitwe                 delomet prog.                                    Project. 7153
-led lad for la-
b~ ouueboldap
,=trueturing           -Preparatory studies    -lstablisbment of the   -by .09/83                   loan sports
--aciaS l. caniums                             coordiation entity                              prepation of
L. lacr.-se private                             to be In charge of                              stones
--ug sobilsation                              orientation.
=  favor priva                                  regution and
--ar invatmt                                  nitorla  of tho
redet merket for
houstin
=-Mrgenzaition of       -Detailed study of a    -lidtistion of a ms     -by C0/83               -Support of them
*-ing sector            nw dv1i  ervato         cEvil *ervnt housing                            uessr  under
institutions ad         huing policy            reform                                          fiancial
reduction in the cost                           -Reduction of costs     -sales to begin by       stbilsatimo progr-
=f tbe sector for                               In public sector        12/83                    -9apport of this
wub   fic.I ntervS,tlon and                                                                      policy under USAID
progressive  el. of                             proec
public bousing asset.
-Uaaagss.nt -audit of   -to be completed by
sIru. SiCOCS ad         Ot/84
SOC3r-EA to prepare     -Submeion of 84
reorientation of        budgets for SM.
ativities ad            SICOCSI Md SOCzTU
financial               compriMing refor_
rehabilitaton           adopted: Dec 83
-progressive reform     -to be initisted
of rental policy of     before 04/84 sd
SOCI7IU and SrCOCI      genrlsed by Jse
sad - iftiag of rent    85
conat-ol
-Cowernrst to clear    -no later tha
its a*ccut. with        December 31. 83
SMU and _essrse to
recover arrears for
delieget
beneftclaries                                   -Isproveeat in
Reevaluation of tax   -Adoption ced_tral        efficiency of ad
prov-s  governng        survey mytem for 4      tao reovery support
bousing and             secondary cities by     by ngoing Abidjan
improvement In land     03/8                   Water Supply and
tax roeipts                                     Sewere Project
-Shift frm publc to   -Preparatory studie                                                        -Pobssble component
pr'vate sector In       undertaken              -Rlarged lend           -To be Included in       of propose  nk-
boosing deslopmat                               devlopent program       SWU1    1984 budget      Nosing Project
and building                                    by SIMU for private
activitle                                      sector building                                 -Possible component
-i -lot demtration      -To be included In      of proposed DM*
pror   by SICOCI to   SICOCI-- 1984 budgt    Souing Project
enourage rpivste
housi investmnt
-Promotion of SIR. In   -Study completed br
the soctor ad of        12/83
dometic contruction
and bullding mterial
Industries



- 36 -
F.  Expected Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
91.      The impact of a structural adjustment process is, by its very nature,
difficult to assess with great accuracy. The timing and magnitude of the
supply response to changes in incentives and the development of the world
economy, to which the Ivory Coast is particularly sensitive, are difficult to
predict. Corsequently results of this analysis are subject to a large degree
of uncertainty. However, past dynamism of the private sector, both in agri-
culture and industry, shows that the capacity of economic agents to react to
opportunities is strong and that the overall impact of the structural adjust-
ment program will be unambiguously beneficial financially as well as economi-
cally. In order to evaluate this impact, the quantitative effects of the main
components of the program on the basic parameters of the economy have been
assessed and a comparison made between a reference scenario and a scenario
including the intensified SAL II program. A summary of this analysis is pre-
sented in Table III on page 36. The reference scenario reflects the presumed
evolution of the economy without structural adjustment. It incorporates,
however, the impact of the financial recovery program which is under imple-
mentation since 1981. The results of the scenario with intensification of the
adjustment effort indicate that sizable impact of the program should materi-
alize during the second half of the eighties. Improvements in the structure
of the economy mainly stem from a higher overall efficiency in the use of
domestic and external resources. Qualitative amelioration in public invest-
ment programs which are being more directed to sound and directly productive
projects, better efficiency in public enterprises management and the overhaul
of the incentive system in agricultural and industrial sectors will help to
reduce the ICOR, the coefficient linking investments to increments in GDP.
The impact of this evolution on future gross public foreign borrowings is
particularly important: during the period 1986-90, yearly GDP growth rate is
expected to reach 6.5%, compared to 4.6% in the reference case, while public
foreign borrowings requirements are on the average 10% lower than in this
case. The second most important consequence of the program is the expected
increase in the average annual rate of growth of manufactured exports which
should go back close to its historical level of 11 per nt, while import
elasticities of consumer and intermediate goods should decline by 5 percent
after 1985. In conclusion, the resumption of a sustained growth of per capita
income in the Ivory Coast will depend on the intensification of the structural
adjustment program now pursued by the Government. The overall effect of the
structural adjustment program, together with the forecast increase in oil
output, would be to sustain an average GDP per capita growth rate of 2.3
percent during the second half of the eighties with the current account
balance of payments deficit declining to 2.7% of GDP and the debt service
ratio being reduced from an average of 43.6% in 1983-85 to 30.7% by 1990.



- 37 -
Table 3:     WJELCLS S1WK: 70 INALI OF
THE S URAL AD rU1M  IRMM
Prsn         WEbu Strits                 With 5tut
SiBtixx       AdPioess                              Proess
1963      198535  l9E5-90  1990    1963-83  19B5-92  1990
Gra1th rates
GDP                                      2.2       2.1       4.6     4.5      2.1       6.5     6.1
of which Agrculire                    -1.7       2.2      4.2     4.2       2.2      6.0      6.0
Iaizstry (e=luiling petiletz)    -1.6       3.3      4.8      4.8      3.3      8.2      8.2
Services                         -1.7       2.1      4.1      4.1      2.1       5.9     5.9
Eports of (IPS                           1.5        2.5      3.2     1.9       2.5      5.1     4.0
imports of CaES                         -5.5        1.1      3.0     3.9       1.1      3.9     4.5
Percentage of GQIP
Oozsznption                             81.8       83.0     8.8    83.5      83.0      82.8    83.4
Saviriw                                  18.2      17.0     17.2    16.5      17.0     17.2    16.6
invesbint                               21.6       20.0     18.9    19.1      2).0     18.0    17.4
Resource Balance                        -3.9       -4.0    -2.6    -3.0    -4.0        -1.7    -1.5
Current Accxmuit BlB]are                 -         -9.5     -5.6    4.5       -9.5    -4.6    -2.7
?     -ra dtm   Iteb
IWCR                                      -         5.9      5.1     4.2       5.9      3.9     2.9
I per ca pta grzgth rate                -2.0      -2.1       0.4     0.4      -2.1      2.3     1.7
Gross foreip borrowmnss (tJ$milicm)    819.0      952.8  1,031.-3   85.4    952.8    956.0   757.1
Debt Service Ratio to NFS Eprts          39.5      43.6     42.2    35.4      43.6     3BJ0    30.7
World BRnk fpou're
WEK debt oatatardtrig                    17.8      20.5     27.1    2B.8      20.5     2B.0    31.1
(as permentwge of total debt)
WEK debt service                         7.1        8.5     13.1    15.3       8.5     13.4    16.0
(as percentage of total debt)



- 38 -
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Background
92.      The proposed loan is the second in a series of loans supporting the
Ivory Coast's structural adjustment program. This program, described in Part
II above, was developed in part under SAL I with technical assistance provided
under the Bank's Technical Assistance Project (Loan IVC-2059). Its develop-
ment involved at each stage close collaboration and a very frank and con-
structive dialogue between Government and the Bank. The Government initiated
discussions on the possibility of a SAL II program in the course of a major
Bank supervision mission of SAL I in June 1982. The program was identified
during a preparation mission in November 1982 and further developed during
Bank missions in January and February 1983. An appraisal mission visited the
Ivory Coast in March/April 1983.  Negotiations were held in Abidjan in May
1983; the Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. Dosso, Director of Investments,
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
B. SAL I Progran Implementation
93.      The Ivory Coast made good progress in carrying out the first phase of
the multi-annual structural adjustment process supported by the Bank's first
SAL of December 1981 and in meeting the targets of the financial recovery
program supported by the IMF's three-year EFF of January 1981. Overall,
implementation of the SAL I program proceeded extremely well and substantive
progress was achieved in all the areas covered, as has been made clear in Part
II, Sections A, B, C, and D above. Achievements on the specific actions taken
under SAL I are listed in Table III (pages 29-34) which also specifies
separately the actions that will be taken under SAL II in a continuing process
of reforms. In the field of public investment control and programming, com-
mendable progress was made both in improving the mechanisms of the systems
involved and in the actual results achieved: public investment was reduced
between 1981 and 1982 from 15.6 percent to 12.7 percent of GDP and significant
shifts to productive sectors occurred over the same period. In agriculture,
important improvements in key planning and project preparation units were put
in place, a major examination of incentives completed and an effective first
phase package of pricing reform implemented; even in the short term the
results are impressive, as the 17 percent decline in rice imports in 1982
following the increase in the consumer price of rice clearly demonstrates.
The studies of the seven parastatal agricultural agencies have all been done
or are nearing completion. There were a number of delays in this area as a
result of unrealistic original estimates of the time required to obtain
agreement on detailed terms of reference, and to select and recruit high
quality consultants. A far-reaching study of agricultural research was
completed as programmed. Satisfactory financing plans were implemented for
the three major agricultural agencies, CIDT, PALMINDUSTRIE and SATMACI, and
management studies of these public ccmpanies have been completed with recom-
mendations for their reorganization (see paras. 58-60 above) which should
significant'v improve their overall performance. Thorough and detailed
programs of policy reform were prepared under SAL I for the industrial sector
and for the control and management of parastatals, both of which can now begin



- )9 -
to be implemented. The second tranche of SAL I was released on September 30,
1982, when aME conditions were met, and that loan was fully disbursed in less
than 12 months from the date of effectiveness.
94.      The substantial achievement under SAL I in init:.ating the structural
adjustment process is all the more remarkable aa the Government was at the
same time concentrating its efforts on short-term financial management. The
process itself of implementing the SAL I measures has resulted in economic
policy decision-makers at all levels focusing on structural issues which
affect longer-term growth and has greatly improved coordination between a
variety of government departments and agencies, both at the policy formulation
and the execution stages. The SAL I process has contributed to the recogni-
tion and commitment that now exists throughout the Government on the necessity
of taking urgent steps to restore a positive growth of per capita GDP during
the second half of this decade. The comprehensiveness, strength and innova-
tiveness of the SAL II program that the Government has so rapidly developed is
ample testimony to this effect.
C. Loan Amount
95.      The proposed loan of $250.7 million (including capitalized front-end
fee) would be made available in two tranches. The first tranche of $125.7
would be made available on loan effectiveness and the second of $125 million
about eight months later but only after all conditions of second tranche
release (see paragraph 97 below) have been met. The loan would meet about 9%
of the Ivory Coast's erternal capital requirements in the calendar years 1983
and 1984. The amount is considered appropriate in the light of the strength
and quality of the proposed program and on the basis of the size of the Bank's
lending program in the Ivory Coast.
D. Monitoring of Actions, Proposed Conditions and Supervision
96.      A detailed implementation schedule of monitorable actions of the
SAL II-program is provided in  iatrix form in Table II on pages 29-34.  Govern-
ment, in the light of its commitment to this program and the urgency of the
economic difficulties it faces, has already taken several critical actions
prior to Board presentation. These include inter alia:
(a) starting the implementation of the program to reduce civil servant
housing subsidies;
(b) reducing SODESUCRE's staff by 7%;
(c) deciding to phase out fertilizer subsidies over a three year period
and adopting the first phase of this program;
(d) eliminating subsidies to outgrower rubber planters by adopting a new
system of pricing based on export prices net of processing and
marketing costs;
(e) initiating the process of identifying a first tranche of 1000 public
housing units to be placed on the market for sale.



- 40 -
97.      Availability of the second tranche would be contingent upon satis-
factory progress in carrying out the Structural Adjustment Program and in
particular upon the following measures being taken:
(a) adoption of a satisfactory public investment program for 1984,
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) establishment of a financial program for 1984 to further reduce
internal and external imbalances, satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) adoption of 1984 budgets, acceptable to the Bank, for SODESUCRE,
SETU, SICOGI and SOGEFIHA reflecting agreed programs of reform of
these agencies, and of satisfactory 1984 budgets for CIDT,
PAIMINDUSTRIE and SATMACI;
(d) adoption of the new Investment Code;
(e) abolition of quantitative restrictions on imports for a list of
products, acceptable to the Bank, and replacing these quantitative
restrictions with a declining system of temporary import surcharges
for a period of less than five years;
(f) adoption of the export subsidy scheme and custom tariff revision
program in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
98.      The comprehensive and detailed nature of the SAL II program calls for
a substantial supervision effort by the Bank to maintain a very close dialogue
with the Ivorian authorities and to provide advice and technical support at
critical stages in the adjustment process. At least two major supervision
missions will be required, the first in the fall of 1983 and the second early
in 1984, supported by sector specific missions particularly for the industrial
and housing components. The Bank's Agriculture Division in Abidjan would play
a key role in supervising the agricultural component, and the Bank's Resident
Representative to the Ivory Coast would maintain a constant dialogue with
Government on the implementation of the program.
E. Disbursements, Procurement and Use of Counterpart Funds
99.      The proposed loan is expected to be fully disbursed within one year
from loan effectiveness. The satisfactory arrangements that were made for the
administration of SAL I would be continued for SAL II. The Government of
Ivory Coast would be the borrower. The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement would
be responsible for assembling requested supporting documentation collected
from the commercial banks by the Central Bank. This documentation would
include copy of the invoices and evidence of payment and of shipment.
Reimbursement would be made into a Project Account opened with BCEAO in the
name of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement which will be in charge of the
disbursement of the local currency counterparts.
100.     The loan would finance 100% of the CIF cost of eligible imports
subject to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan
signature. Imports financed by other sources would not be eligible for Bank



- 41 -
financing. Eligible imports include raw materials, intermediate goods,
capital goods and spare parts for both the public and private sectors, but
some categories of goods such as items intended for military use and goods for
luxury consumption would not be eligible for Bank financing. A list of
ineligible imports is given in Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement. Bank
financing of imports of foodstuffs and petroleum products would each be
liLiited to an aggregate amount equivalent to not more than US$50.0 million.
101.     Bank financing will be limited to imports procured from Bank member
countries, Switzerland and Taiwan. All purchases, both public and private,
under contracts amounting to $5 million or more would be procured through ICB
in accordance with Bank guidelines to be eligible for Bank financing. Certain
commonly traded commodities may be purchased through price quotations avail-
able from organized international commodity markets. Imports by the private
sector for contracts of less than $5 million equivalent would be in accordance
with standar'z commercial practices.  Expenditures for goods procured under
contracts of less than $15,000 equivalent would not be eligible for Bank
financing. For small contracts between $15,000 and $500,000 equivalent, full
documentation including invoices will be retained for periodic examination by
Bank staff and withdrawal applications would be consolidated and accepted on
the basis of written statements from the CAA which would include the country
of origin, a description of goods, date and currency in which payment was
effected, the commercial bank involved and the final beneficiary. For all
concracts above $500,000, full documentation would accompany withdrawal
applications (Loan Agreement: Aanex 3, para. 3).
102.     The Government has agreed to allocate the counterpart local funds
generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided under the loan to support
the SAL II program and in particular to finance the public enterprises in-
cluded in the SAL II program (Loan Agreement: Section 3.01).
F. Benefits and Risks
103.     Benefits.  The principal benefits of this wide ranging structural
adjustment program are the expected improvements in the performance of the
Ivori*n economy with better prospects for sustained and more widely distri-
buted GDP growth. increased public savings and reductions in the country's
balance of payments deficit and debt service burden. The macro-economic
management reforms initiated under the program will increase the country's
capacity to withstand changes in the international environment to which it is
particularly susceptible. More specifically the program should increase
productivity in the agricultural sector, lead to resumption of growth in the
indust-ial sector, increase industrial exports, reduce subsidies and increase
efficiency in the parastatal sector, shift the use of public funds for housing
mainly to the needs of lower income groups and increase the mobilization of
private resources to address the housing shortage. Finally, the loan itself
will also provide the Ivory Coast, which has pressing and substantial foreign
financing requirements in the near future, with a significant amount of
foreign exchange, at favorable maturities, over a short period in which the
availability of foreign financing is likely to be particularly scarce.



- 42 -
104.     Risks.  A program as detailed and intensive as this one is clearly
not without risks. First, several sound but forceful actions that Government
has decided to implement are likely to be met with some opposition from vested
interests. The commitment of Government to the process of adjustment has,
however, been clearly demonstrated by its performance under SAL I; moreover,
Government's determination to pursue the SAL II program is clear from the
number of actions it has already taken prior to Board presentation (see para-
graph 96 above). The strength of Government's political will is manifestly
apparent in the firm response by Government to the strikes by teachers follow-
ing the initiation of civil servant housing reform. Second, an important part
of the program has been designed on the basis of anticipated responses of
private entrepreneurs, particularly in agriculture and industry, to changes in
the system of incentives. Past experience in the Ivory Coast indicates that
farmers and enterprises in the country respond rapidly to changes in prices
and other incentives. Nevertheless, there is a risk that the reaction to the
present package of incentives may prove to be less significant than behavioral
responses to similar changes have been in the past. Third, since Government
is rightly convinced that the present economic situation calls for timely
action, this program is very concentrated and includes a schedule of about 50
.actions to be taken within a twelve month period. As some of these involve
decisions to be taken on the basis of studies and analyses yet to be com-
pleted, there is a risk that there might be some slippage in parts of the
detailed time-schedule that has been agreed. It is consequently recognized
that some adjustments in the schedule may be required. In the light of
Government's strong commitment to the program, adjustments in some schedules,
if necessary, need not jeopardize the program, provided that the key actions,
and in particular those that have an impact on the cor.ditions listed in para-
graph 97 above, are implemented as programmed. Finally, in an economy as open
as that in the Ivory Coast and as dependent upon export trade, it must be
recognized that the estimated impact of such an adjustment program does hinge
apon a gradual improvement in the international environment. A protracted
-ontinuation of the global recession would undoubtedly make the program even
ilore important although its impact on growth would be reduced.
. Collaboration with the IMF and other Donors
05.     The objectivee and action program of the proposed SAL are fully con-
;istent with policies and measures undertaken in the framework of the Extended
'und Facility granted by the IMF. Cooperation with the Fund has been very
-lose and all important missions were arranged to overlap in order to coordi-
'ate policy. However the emphasis and the time frame of the two programs
espect the traditional difference in responsibility between the two institu-
.ions. The IMF program focusses more on the short and medium-term and on
:'inancial and monetary issues, while the proposed Bank program is more geared
to improving economic and institutional bases in a medium to long term
perspective.
106.     The Bank is relying on the IMF for the objectives and measures which
are included in the financial stabilization program. It includes targets for
public sector finances, credit distribution and gross external borrowings.
The Bank is taking the lead for the preparation and implementation of specific
public enterprises reform, the adjustment process in the industrial sector and



- 43 -
the dialogue on public investment. The Bank and Fund programs are both
necessary, mutually supportive and aimed at the same objective.
107.     1983 is the last year of the current three year EFF agreement.  The
present austerity policy will have to be continued at least in 1984 and 1985
to further reduce public finances and current account balance of payment
deficits. Government has requested further assistance from the IMF for these
two years. The IMF July 1983 mid-term review of the third year of the current
program will begin preparation of a possible future IMP program.
108.     The Bank is coordinating its approach to Ivorian problems with most
important bilateral agencies in order to share its analysis of the present
situation and recommended orientations and to coordinate, as far as possible,
policy advice and lending priorities. Two key agencies for this purpose are
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the American
USAID. CCCE is heavily involved in the agricultural sector, partly through
co-financed operations with the Bank, and in 1982 provided the Ivory Coast
with a non-project sector loan endorsing the SAL I agricultural sector com-
ponent. It has in April 1983 approved a Public Enterprise Project of $70
million equivalent, the objectives of which will be supportive of the SAL II
program. An important element of USAID involvement in the Ivory Coast is
presently focussed on the housing sector. The Bank and USAID have collabo-
rated closely in this field and have developed consistent and complementary
approaches to dealing with housing issues.
109.     The Ivorian Government, which is concerned about the difficdlties it
is facing in borrowing non-project loans on the international financial
market, asked the Bank to help the Ivory Coast to develop stronger relations
with the commercial banks. Accordingly, in October 1982 the Bank partici-
pated, jointly with the IMF, in meetings attended by representatives of major
commercial banks. The Bank is planning to pursue further this dialogue, in
order to present the economic and financial policy being implemented by
Government, to explain the major role that the commercial banks have tc play
in the fina-acial recovery proctess by not curtailing capital flows to the
country, and to provide the Bank's assessment of the non-project financial
support that will be required.
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST AND
RELATIONSHIP WITH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
110.     Since 1968, when Bank Group operations began in the Ivory Coast,
borrowing from the Bank Group has grown rapidly and now includes 46 lending
operations totalling $1,034.4 million, including $14 million from the Third
Window and an IDA credit of $7.5 million. As of March 31, 1983, $400.0
million remained undisbursed on approved loans. No IDA credits have been
extended to the Ivory Coast since FY73. IFC has supported textile, fertil-
izer, flour milling and development banking operations in the country.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast as
well as notes on the status of projects under implementation.



- 44 -
111.     In general, the implementation of Bank projects in the Ivory Coast
has been satisfactory and has improved substantially over the past five
years. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as a
proportion of the undisbursed total at the strrt of that fiscal year) has
risen from 15.2% in 1977 to 26.1% in 1979 and to 35.2% in 1981. The 1982
Ivory Coast disbursement ratio of 36.6% compares very favorably with the Bank-
wide average of 21.5% and by comparison with ratios fot countries such as
Tunisia (17.9%), Cameroon (20.8%) or Kenya (12.0%) for the same year.
112.     Although the sectoral composition of Bank lending has been well-
balanced, with some involvement in most important sectors, the largest number
of loans by far has been in agriculture, which accounted for 16 out of the
total of 46 lending operations. Transport, with 7 loans and one IDA credit
was next in importance, followed by the water supply and sewerage, industry,
and education sectors, in each of which the Bank has made four loans. Since
the mid 1970s, the Bank has supported the Government's growing concern with
alleviating urban poverty through two urban development projects as well as
through two projects with major components of water supply in secondary
cities. The Power Project approved in July 1980 and the Petroleum Project
approved in June 1982 reflect the recent increasing importance of the energy
sector, as does the Soubre Hydropower project which has recently been
appraised. The Bank has also supported investments in tourism and in
telecommunications in the Ivory Coast.
113.     The Bank's first Structural Adjustment loan to the Ivory Coast
supported the Government's initiation of a program of firm measures designed
to adjust the economy to deteriorating external terms of trade, an adverse
international environment and a worsening balance of payments and public
finance situation. The Government has intensified and widened the scope of
the adjustment measures it will pursue in the second phase of reforms being
undertaken under this proposed Structural Adjustment Loan. Although these
adjustment policies are wide ranging and broad based, it should be stressed
that the Ivory Coast structural adjustment program has been particularly well
designed to reinforce, support and enhance project lending opportunities in a
large number of areas.
114.     The complementarity between SAL I, the proposed loan and project
lending is perhaps most conspicuous in the agricultural sectdr, where the SAL
program is addressing a number of policy and institutional reforms which it
has not been possible to tackle satisfactorily at the project level, but
which, once resolved, can be translated into detailed operational terms
through project lending. A case in point is the cocoa and coffee pricing
policy changes and broad restructuring of SATMACI initiated under SAL I, being
followed by the Center-West Agricultural Project in June 1982. A similar
example is the new pricing system for outgrower rubber planters being
initiated under this program and the concurrent Bank loan for the Rubber IV
project, with its increased program of outgrower plantings. Since the mid
1970s there has been an increasing need for institutional, pricing and subsidy
policy reform in the agricultural sector, the lack of which was inhibiting
project lending. In the five years preceeding the approval of SAL I, despite
the acknowledged prime importance of the agricultural sector, the Bank was
only able to make 3 loans for agriculture out of a total of 17 operations. As



- 45 -
an example, the Bank was unable to proceed with a rice project, appraised in
1975, due to inadequate rice pricing policies wnich could not be resolved at
the project level. The rice pricing decisions being undertaken under the
structural adjustment program would permit consideration of investments in
rice production in future projects. In addition, the institutional reform and
fin' icial rehabilitation of CIDT, SATMACI, PALMINDUSTRIE, SODEFOR SODESUCRE,
SOP FEL and other agricultural agencies should both increase the capability of
these agencies to undertake externally funded projects as well as improve the
implementation of their ongoing projects and programs.
115.     The policy reforms being undertaken in conjunction with this proposed
loan will also provide new opportunities for sound project lending in several
other fields, and project identification and preparation is scheduled -co start
in the near future on sizeable new low income housing, industrial development,
and public enterprise projects. Moreover, the improvements being undertaken
under the structural adjustment program, partly with Bank financed technical
assistance, in investment policy, planning and control and in the public
sector financial programming and budgeting system, should have direct benefi-
cial effects in the short-term on project implementation (which has frequently
been plagued by delays in making public funds available to implementing
agencies) and in the medium-term on project identification and selection.
11o.     The Bank Group's lending to the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below $20 million during the early years to an
average of just under $140 million annually in the FY78-82 period. The Bank's
average annual lending is expected to continue to grow over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1982 stood at 15.3% (including undisbursed). The Bank's share of external
debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 11.1% to about 28% in the
late 1980s; its share of total debt service is expected to rise from 7.1% at
present to an average of about 13.5% in the second half of 1980s.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
117.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
118.     Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The specific actions that Government proposes to undertake under
this loan are specified in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex V).
119.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 46 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
120.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Moeen Qureshi
Attachments
June 9, 1983
Washington, D.C.
ANNEXES  1. Country Data
2. Bank Group Operations in IVC
3. Supplementary Data Sheet
4. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects of IVC Economy
5. Letter of Development Policy
6. Use of IMF Resources



- 47 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE JA
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlEST
IVORY CUAST                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVE9CES
AREA (THOSbAND S. EH.                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL           1:Z5                                 HOST RECENT          MIDDLE INC0ME          HIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     65.5              19b0  lb   1970 lb ESTINATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA 6 MIDDLF EAST
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                270.0       540.0   1150.0                1053.2                 1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(R1LOCKANS OF COAL EqUIVALENT)     71.0       209.5    230.2                610.1                   713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (TIHOU ANDS) 3460.0     5000.0   8262.0
URBAS POPULATION (PERCENT or TOTAL) 19.3       27.6      39.b                28.3                    47.3
POPULATION MWR ECT IONS
POPUILATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILLIONS)                    16.5
STATIUNARY PUPuLAIION (MILLIONS)                       47.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2110
POPULATION DENS ItTY
PER SQ. KM.                      10.7        15.5      24.6                54.7                    35.8
PER SQ. IM. ACRICULTtIRAL LAND    61.2      86.7    115.9                  129.9                  420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.8        42.9      44.7                 46.0                   44.3
15-64 YhS.                        53.6        55.0     53.3                 51.1                    52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.b         2.2       2.0                 2.8                     3.3
POPULATION CRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.1         3../c     5.0/c                2.8                    2.8
URBAN                             6.0         7.3       8.6                 5.2                     4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.2        49.3      49.6                47.2                    41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.2        21.0      17.5                 15.7                   12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3         3.3       3.3                 3.2                     2.9
FAM LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITIUN
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         99.°        97.0    111.0                 90.7                   100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 118.3       118.8    106.6/d               93.9                   108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         56.6        59.4      53.27a              54.8                    71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      14.8        16.0      15.8_7              17.u                    18.0
CHILD (ACES l-i) MORTALITY RATE    39.3        32.3      26.1                23.9                    15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.2        42.2      47.1                51.0                    56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TU4WSAND)                         173.0       148.5    126.8                118.5                   104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENr OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      19.0/e                ..                    59.1
URBAN                              ...                 5o.d7;i               ..03.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0d7                 ..                   39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         5.0      25.0/.
URBAm                              ..        23.0      33.07;                .
RURAL                              ..          ..      22.0..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        29187.0/i   14084.5  21043.6/             14185.2                  4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON    2920.07    2880.2/r  1585.3               2213.2                  1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           678.8       792.7        ..               1036.4                  641.7
UR4AN                              ..       492.7        ..               430.8                   538.3
RUIIAL                             ..      1331.4        ..               3678.6                 2403.3
AIJMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..                   ..                   25.5
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TUTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             3.4/         ..        .
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             1.8/i        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELEECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             0.7/k        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 48 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
tVORIY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUHEZ
IVORY COST                    REFERENCI GROUPS (VIRCUlD AV9GU
- MOST RECENT KSETIUATMI
MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME           HIDDI. IUNCME
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAA  NORTN AFRICA * NIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ESJLLMENTr RATIos
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                46.0        63.0      74.0                83.3                    fl.7
MALE                68.0        81.0      91.0                 96.1                   104.5
FEHALE              24.0        46.0      58.0                 60.4                    72.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 2.0         9.0      15.0                 15.3                    39.7
ULE                  4.0        14.0      23.0                 19.4                    49.3
FEHALE               1.0         4.0       8.0                 11.3                    Z9.0
VOCATIONAL ENgOL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 12.7         7.4      11.0/.                4.7                    10.1
PUPIL-TLACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          40.7        45.0      41.1                 38.6                   34.1
SECONDARY                          ..        21.1        ..                 23.4                    23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       S.OI1      20.0      41.2                 35.6                    43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASabEIER CARM PER THOUSAID
POPULATION                        3.3        11.3      12.11/               31.9                   17.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       15.0        15.0    118.1                  71.8                   131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.41h       4.6      41.0/d               17.9                   44.1
NEUSPAPER (CDAILY GENERAL
INTERESrT) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 2.3         8.8       6.7                 19.1                    31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPlTA   ..        2.0       0.8                  0.6                     1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTALXUOR FORCE (THOUSANDs)    1857.9        2658.0   4127.9
FEMAL  (PERCENT)                 46.2        42.7      41.5                 36.5                    10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            89.0        84.0      79.0                 56.5                    42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                2.0         3.0      4.0                 17.7                    27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              53.7        53.2      50.0                 37.0                    26.0
MALE                               58.4        59.3      56.5                 46.9                    46.2
FEMALE                             49.1        46.7      42.9                 27.2                     5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9         0.8       0.9                  1.3                     1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTIOS
PERCENT OF PRIVATE I:ICOHE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.911
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.871       ..      50.0/1  
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.671       ..      _9.                    ..
LOVES? 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   L6.571       ..      20.0/i1 ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URLWU                              ..          ..    274.0                 507.0                   279.2
RURAL                              ..          ..      96.0                200.6                   178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    487.0                 523.9                   403.6
RURAL                              ..          ..    244.0                 203.6                   285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    22.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each Lndicator are population-welghted arithletic means. Coverage of countries
smong the indicators depends on avallaLility of data and is not unifois.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 11f; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1980.
/c  Due to Immigration population growth rate Is higher than rate of natural incresem;  id 1977; /I 1976;
/f Government personnel only; 1i 1975; /h 1963; Ii 1957-58. African populatlon In the city of 8oumke
cnly; Li 1962; /Ik 1956-57; /1 Populatifn; /. 19ng-74.
May. 1982



p- -1"1-w  FV Sa -tlu   '                                                          I--tt -IxI     p 
on"sata -af t-vTa pa wa--nt-                                                        p-Sagd 1-itit-ad p- .tP- Al an-naP  aai"dq  - -ai                      "a-
-Wi- P-   t.I.ad lId A. -t .q  - - 3--  -an-an.  Aq an-nmp.
1- t.dnp           A.ssL  Pt-it  (.-i I- ' '*t -n -adn  jt -t
--apt--  an..ua
to' tItllama   taqi-~ .tiItlttd  P a-~'-A -  Ss-a pa  rtolto       p..  t    A--IP -4 ta-a.-o  -tttLst putt 5 -  sl-K   - -P
-.a   es  a s.at  1"      %- -At  1-4Tl a-   vtvtl   lt  i-ata           N  S- mq t ns  -a-i- a   "'ar -- 5-It tP-  -   1                             -
Z"   ~_    - PZT _     ~ 1 9  --I.'i-a--ttaja                            a1-atlt   P   afl             m   N' P-t'"i   -53 loll    ql-
-  tt.   p   ai - (taiL4-aJ  sod    ) it-I'  -o -  I "--avaIiI  ftff                    P.staai- tt  3t4 P*lta t-ats              *ajs  ptltta   -P        1  Aiad  a-at-
lotStta-ats.   -~en    m'- =     td  -a  altlo- 'a  Santa.                           -  i.   a  I .'taa p-  ("Sat ta-G !.U1 aaaid P-tn  3t 038 tt5
- tat-u   u-n-  -n  atai   atm   .  ta -           .a  -n   i-I-wd---                             '-'T  Jns  it'- ta   'ant 'nutc -sI  P-  "i-31 aiS   a--
a~qw Pt-tl                 t              t'-al3  tap   -w-   (pIt2tfil a-c  *L6 i*U  ittftl Salt
~ L3Ja-d ;t.5t- -It--MS .....-InUt  tua1T-ta.;a                              tn n.flfl 3. i-Ah                                                 -3Jpajat.y      -ta4ami .I t  l-ir
ppgaq  p                  fltp  ~i it..Gib]  O't_ 1t-IWI -its  -A rI-r tI-P "-Is
al"- aV i- 1t p- 'ia-d &   ta-.  'n --sataa.aa';.tdalaop Or.. ao  "Ito   .tt tt1i 41 tapai1qa  ii-L.   -t 4-a  a.
a-ntis St papa'sf - (ra-t pa Itt-l   IIIqw) saa   aaM;    a,t                                 ap- . ao  p.np a.-aa -   ~Iaa'q; a-d) oaau wa-m  (v-% mat  P;ti
--v P-  a- -Is- .3-   - r.jpa  iw-ia--  -A At".F ua-etrsaa
-Jt a.wi 7-it  p.1 tia                                               t.itp !a Pt. Of&% 'w-Itus   !A-atS s-'d Pta-a
taa-i  -qi ---a  Pa'-a-  a~.~a r.icdstat  -ta iiiaist  ~    ~       '1         - 1tt  Wm, a"-   Lada aw-              a -_a   Lad- I
--'aitd Wis.  - ;ja' pa '-it -'an"  -P-a-d    lt  52dtst                            ,uI  a   "inI'iSttatJA    .- aZ Afl---         fa- no"  stat-, .  titana-
'-t~ani pa inst 'act 'a' .-J       u -"I  1-s,a  aIthn    -      1. -ula               -I.-  1        -i    P--o aPlStsu          ."W  OVA 'U  psn- ta   tt
pa U".aiq '&ita;'Was    -an-a a-lti - t3ai    aatnb-a-'    -t.s-rt  -                                                      I- p- '-t-ia-ai p-5 -a pta ti -ita
--a, '~-l I_-  a. --a-i- -i-,aWa  i-   - (i- -ad) -It-A                                      'I2-n  'a-.a ui  -sta-- '-i ad4   In,  'aol' att-aaP                   u
-ttflZ-a       -t'S  t_ISllTI -a   t-_  IttIt.        itddtltt                              l-  s-i La-soS -i taital-S- i              r-e- a.a      "atj        fAm-t
'i  tWi   t-Wtt   lISPta-5t   inm pt!a          P p tiataol    ' P-                 .-.,      5" ---&  -it~7          a.'itaa.AZita;I, 75lifhIi r- a-
atariaa  'oa.d    uaa  Laa-    mis -jtpa--q~  t - rn-w  a...J               t..p a--t p.- 'CU&t  S-t1-i              .,ute 'ld s.'Jid  nn ann
lam  macru        -  p-u  P-t aain -s   a         a-ri   nt.S-ipI-t   a-m
I ~ ~ 1 -P PI -  -.1.         ~      Pa  - t-P-S~       tt-   atn"wi-iPa-  -IqtP   a   atP-, II-~   a- paint
i.,~a-,.hP t       ap   ap-- isa  'at-  .-so  t~                -               I-'si  a   a  p.If.. pa. ..."St  'sa-. tta.   p;a-a   npi
;" io--  a-si a pt   -  -At~   .  id~a tpu                    -      -l         ~      a   is    a   -- ]---v ---"aa   P3-.'a".taew"  a"~m
-    - a-,.  -J It-a a- ta-cdt  n  Al alp .-q~ .i                                                                                     Suzitm  as' nam
p-a -  tu i         wa.a   n-a'P--  -i *utat-aid p-it    iliaat
l..Iutla    -    pn.tpp 'ai.deia   a- 3tal a.-ta  Atlu.  taap                                                                        -      ta    ti-a  p-u   Itip
'-bp- hi 5  Slot LI 3"ntftIi   t   a-    P-    tii-'  -t                                  pq- sa-  Jt.ot-     EaSpai    -"t'd) .att  -  tadA  alt-
"a  t-it-a   s~  tt-tsta£5   itilIvtio  atiai  *.i _' fl                      taOai   taof.a attI -  vp itt _ai5    it-It"'tATs 1-    iT-   at1 t.A
I q ~ ~    ~     ~    Unl~sappao.  iA-                   -                   t1it  am   a-a. tu  iaP             sta    stn-&-t    isitlLt
nit  aawa-i              .L  lv-(.tiddpn.aj  5.                       -   ..                -V  alttP-43 t-st  W4-1t     p-ot.qiat. I 1-~--  - n.--Z-.  -Z)  -V i-18  eP-,
a-t  a5-i  a    a..        C- Ia.tattaSt- 4.i a-fl  at aat '                                                          -rn-at-u Pa- 'ac.ans  'os-4Kst -s --ia-I
-"iti 5-4   5tms   4_t"   t-V -                       -)ia-. 1 11_'5   n-Itflq
'as-inL  a-  'at1-an-a 'at.-mass a-;  taat.Td a-t
P.= I&I   IW  ~_t-d .1."   -a A.         uptdinio    -             dad- s.-- W .  anm-ai I-M a I.... s-L 1-st p.51  R.-.,a 'i-I..
NI tit~Nt  St J-W. LI -PiMP  t- iLap.sp sala41at.uan'tt -tsa i. - P 6a Ir-ata StiiS Iv miitt -ai
a  p-I-'-  a-.pa- aa-i   ia-ast  a 'tnt"'- ou-Plu..da-, atd.;:psi1                                                   P- -i-  s.-  Pa 1-  'P-a  "t.-A
-4 1- -    .-  au  -  asr-p .ti    -  te     tp -  -s*ni                       pt1   tcuatti'  -Q   tpa3-  a
ttoittaa  ata 1-55 -  o.aPa-_  it                                                               bollSlatltat.t   titi aa  a-Isa. .a - s.d sO --iuttdtd a-PtSBj
a. ." Li..     - R, ta  .-ttp..ottu.
alstat-  .at.PJ-.tlt   J5- a.am-at  ga  -t 1  ip au                                                                                             Paa'1- N:i't  -
-a3  a-ia- aw st.  l  -W    -   anta  titd-sat                                  -a-lcd  N    t-  a-s-aao   Pn- 5atd .as A.  at-u  ni     Ptit"-lt
it-nod  aa P-atAn laan         ni t-taa.io   a  taa                                     nI   ala-im-Ts   a-ib   l   -ala-- aa   t--Iat. t
at;?ttitopt  at-id   . tStsIX-   -lts;'$v-   olia   t  sL.N.                                    t5  'dit  tAiS%OdI t   it-' P- a1L itti aN
alpa   tPTuIa- tSit1s"  *itIt-  !tattit   Satla   saId                                oittiwtu-            uTT-, s.;J. 'a"- Pt-wa 'u  "-a *Iaitoa  nn
tlsit  tattasid  lata oIti.a   NI      tS ITataiaia                          t  sisa    i  Na tlt  P   '..t. M..itrs    i ~ t  i-   iilN
-a-a  n--ut-'a-Sot taa    1- tn     pa .1t- 'aa-i - u.at -atts.                 --tl-s-  In     ' ia.d a-ta-' 
minI mmtt.sau r-in w                                               --oi.A naSotiad 513 tptr- *iltip
mci±vta           tili-_..t  tIo                    -I .4. at 'So Pt-tt-   tNt .      -i'   liW
-ftItaa   oiM-id 'urni a-l Pa a--i --'i -a t-¶pt-   ISTitut-3
'Lat-ataim. S.i~eq a-a".pa 'ins  u-ant a--a 11i5p Stita-a                         a- ~   -ttO  Ailtit-1 5t5 ti-
a  saa    -tjImaLa A1i-nit lii-  -ttai lti-'I-3,ad                                    -a-asa   ttilq~                 f.d    i,aI  it-i Pa 'It-ti
pa taaaaa-  an.da-n  n-Sat "-ill-c-   -S aa.tdt.  en  aaeq                            -s aa   -  p.-. Llat si   3io'ii. -   p -.T. Mq avta.d   a--I
-    I -s.-  a.  pag--  'ala 'atiti       1   2         4-qP-q- - ama a5-  ."ta- 30i-W- o.taow n-aisi"  tiinisidi
'-tatdai i- si.14.p-T.  atm. i-a p."'i  Na                                                ltP ana-a  a  a'as  I-s
ti i-is V."   -  a-~   - Lot = a-PIa   iatw-tna-                   a 8na-I  Mt                  ta-P3-d LII (it--   iaiA- It-SW                  itt"ltp-   ta;
assi-  uulattu   -tpatpt  n  tat-  ""ai-SPNtNV                                     15li.dar:         t   i"atoai    iti'  t   nn t-isdda-t
-awl-  pa  alit    i~   - iPa"it-" . -   ta- aa  p"'      "t-s a at v_ _ __ _-                                                                                       P__ _ __ _ _ _
tastqStti 5  i t ltW  P.it ia-t  tti"i -                                                      Piii'lustttin                                                     --a-
n--alv-   a-p'S- ita -itttdl tat . ta -im   P-illid               ta-n                  si-u I-a-M'N  p- '.-I         -T-%sa  a-an   1-a a- teaI-ada   aa'
LIt.Zl-  pa-Sitm d Pa" tu"aM    tWai-a  u.I-a-a -tai-ta rtt-.                            I-)~ t-m--.a-  p  --            'er    patc~i- '.u -ICUan''luh p
'ttwi-q-- its Teatdu spA            n-tat tr-aad"I   a.pasodat  a-naaaf1                                  - as    ol-  't.             "        iS)iSIiai
-itA-a-a    -min3=  _di:                                                                                  Ws. ztip- a    aa   -iai -    tt- pa   ll-
qi-   npi't n'a-l".  tt    P-p-n......-M    Ia-as'                                     -I. in  'o,d init-ims     ma&O.-itiada   - asia) Vitl,v sam D
tai  -le     j. 5.l-   -lta-ti aiol' Sq o-vutIp  ata  -Pa '-na                     --a-p bisi 'tti-   ai                 p-a latisat  a- t sJst-  i-iL - I1-t1
- Pa-al  tititili   -  --ap   'q i--  -pua6ltS   t  aittd-A -a-s; p-  -u -
WP    .33119-11-  -"3  =Pl -43 V-   -1:3--1--S-at .it-i  -ipa Lain   N   t    l1       . a-Wsr
ACt- NI -its P-   att -nr            aI t-a-s at         - ..q. ciaaspa   oa   a n-ltwt  tapi-sNan   in   'a;ja    ip
tt.i    ittiti    tS   t .a- - a.-ppal. pa -ataV qaa- --a  -u pplaaL ap   nPs-s.dl-B'n~    qta                             taatitLa-. aat- Na 5
dhaS AISa-    Ni all  --l  Sta   51vq Ta-ia-" I3t  ~an  ia't  w (Z] pa tae-.- ta                         -RNi l- S-oa Afla-n t-t  NI. ~   -- .6-rall t-eapa  uq
_n _it    _t-I     tteati     s-t- Silt   -sa-.spa   tpa   -Srit, '4"ait- it t-Pt'-  4i ....P "i iP-                             t-uN
-a .'a "vt  Ni  '-tSP  Ni t' qalt "a  .Iant  lt-atap sq pt- .4"-ai pa   -.nIo  a-p p-IR-Pi-3It a- tI .Na Ao.inan  -ws-d"' uAs.Maat
t"a  N      ~a'A- Ap." lil  P-I   N t-i  PIa-   i  -1 it        pa.nwl   SttlsNn a   Ni Ppapc   .tatt   t-                a   *Qa    i-p n'. 4ftqiliu        :--
I XaNNV                                                                              t- 6



50~ -
Page 4
701!n CST - M0OXc IDICA?0!
Populatton: 8.240 {dd-l9WO. thommada)
CUP per capita: U33 .150 (1980)
Asnual groth rat5 CS) at conotat pricesf
Aut 
(llilem 1US$                      Actual                           PelUmLnra                       Projected
Indicator                  at arrant pr-cos 
1980            1975   1976   197   Ie78    sg979           19eo   1g1    1982              1983   1984    19e5
NATIONIAL ACCOUtS
Crom Dosestic Product                 10514            7.0   12.0    4.7    9.9    2.0              6.3   -1.6   -1.8              2.2    1.8    2.3
Agriculture                          27s            15.5    3_1   -3.0    4.9        1.2         11.O    4.6   .3.7             -1.7     1.9    2.4
Irdustry (escludiUg credo oll)       2458            6.9   t5.9   16.8    9.1        3.2         3.9   -0.2   -3.6              -1.6    2.8    3.6
Services                             5329            1.9   15.5    4.0   123   - 1.8              4.8   -3.7   -1.6             -1.7     1.8    2.3
Crede Oil                                             -       -       -       -       -           -   410.1   87.6              97.7   -3.6   -2.9
Consumption                            !185           10.8   t3.0    9.3   12.1        2.9         3.4    2.8   -3.3               1.9    3.3    3.7
Cross Irnsbwt                          2-53           15.4   22.4   42.'   22.3   -9.6             7.7  -11.7   -9.9              - -9.4   -6.3   -4.6
Exports of'CT                          3578           -6.7   12.8   -7.8    6.7    2.6            11.5    3.4    0.6               1.5    1.4    2.5
Imports of CGM                         4125           -7.3   21.7   25.7   14.9   -2.7              6.2   -6.3   -5.4             -5.5    0.2    2.0
Cross National Saving                  1290             1.6   18.6   36.4  -16.1   -27.6          -&.6  -41.8  -31.2               8.9    2.1   -2.9
PRICE
CDP Deflator (1980 - 100)                             52.3   62.2   82.0   86.5   92.5            100.0  104.0  116.8            128.5  141.3  155.5
Exhange Rte (3I-                                     214.3  239.0  245.7  225.6  212.7            211.3   27t.7   W8.6           360.0  360.0  360.0
Sar, of CDP at  ark.et Prom ()                         A*r"* Anml rnIrease (M)
(at c,rrzet prices)_-                                (at constant prices)
1960  1470  1975  19Wo  195 1*990           1960.1970   1970.1975  1975-198O   1960-1985   1985-1990
cros Domawtic Product                        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         e.0        5.5         7.4         0.6         6.5
Agriculture                                43.5  27.2  28.8  25.8  25.9  25.3               4.2         4.3        5.3         0.7         6.0
industry (zexluding oil)                    14.1  21.5  21.5  23.4  22.9  24.8             11.5        6.7         9.6         0.1         8.2
Services                                    42.4  51.3  49.7  50.7  47.8  45.6              9.7        5.7         7.6        -0.5         5.9
Oil                                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   3.5   4.3               -          -           -        120.1        11.1
Consumption                                   82.9  76.8  80.3  77.8  84.2  83.2              8.5        4.6         8.1         1.7         6.2
Cross Inveat"et                               14.6  22.1  22.4  27.1  18.5  17.4             12.7         6.6       15.7        -8.5         5.0
Ex'orts of CUS                                37.1  30.9  38.0  33.1  35.8  33.5         ~     .5        8.4         4.9         1.9         5.1
Imp rt. of CUPS                               34.5  37.7  40.7  38.3  386   34.1              6A.         9.2       12.7        -3.0         3.9
Cross National Sevinsp                        10.6  17.0  't.7  12.3   5.6  11.9              7.2         7.2       -1.2       -15.5        23.5
A S of CDP
1960  1970  1975  1980
ru.c  7mAR08
Current Revenue.                            20.0  20.1  19.8  27.9
Currant zpeditures                          14.6  16.1  t6.4  21.3
Surplus (C) or Deficit C-)                   5.4   4.0   3.4   6.5
Capital EzpenditLre                         4.9   7.5   8.4   19.4
Foreign Financing                           0.7   t.4    14    7.9
1960-1970    1970-1975   1975-190   1980-1985  1985-1990
OrTM INDICATORS
csP croeth B-t: (5)                         7.9          5.6        7.4         0.6         6.5
crr per Capits Croth late ()-                             -         2.9        -3.4         2.3
ICOR                                        1.7         3.0         3.7          -          2.9
Argunal Savings Rote                        0.3         0.4        -0.9         0.3         0.3
Import  lasticity                           0.9          1.7        1.5        -5-2         0.6
m/   At market prices.
I/  ProJected Years at constant prico.
Ti   Costant 1980 prices.



-age 5
rvou COAST - 21SNa  TRAM
Population: 8.240 (mid-1980. thuuaad)
CNP per capita: tlS1 .150 (1980)
tAnnual growth rat" (5) at mutunt price,
Auuu
(million g                       Actual                          Prelainazy                       Projected
IndicLtor                  at currat prim)
1980            197-   1976   t977   1978   1979           1980   1gs8   1982            1983   1984   1985
mTRAL TRADE
Merchandise Ezport                  3142.0           10.7   -6.3  -26.3   22.7   -0.            27.5    5.9    0.0             1.3    2.6    :.4
Agrtculture                        2048.3           9.4   -4.2  -28.0   24.2   -4.6           22.2    0.0    1.5             0.4    2.4    2.0
Indutty (excLuding erde oil)      1093.7          34.4  -39.1   15.9   13.3   25.0           38.9   17.1    2.3             2.8    3.5    3.5
Crude Oil                              -             _      _       _       _      _            _      _
N.rckandiae Iaporta                  2990.5           0.3   23.1   42.1   27.8   -3.7            4.9  -14.0  -11.3            -8.2    2.1    3.1
Food                                398.5         -19.8   18.3   77.3   21.1    0.5           21.0   13.6  -13.4             3.3    4.7    5.2
P-trol.m                            555.1          -6.9   37.7   11.1    1.9   45.9           33.8    1.9  -57.8           -78.5   61.3   38.1
Rachinery and lquipent             83.8            10.9   19.5   67.4   41.1  -16.0            0.9  -34.?   -5.5            .6.1   -6.2   -4.5
Others                             1202.1         -17.3   22.4   27.5   25.0    3.0           -6.0  -16.3   14.5             0.9    3.1    3.7
PRICE
Export Price rudex (9eo - 100)                       52.5   68.9  106.7   93.7  102.0          100.0  100.5  111.2           118.4  125.0  134.0
Import Price Index (1980 - 100)                      61.8   67.3   75.8   78.6   87.3          100.0  117.2  132.4           144.   157.1  168.6
Term  of Trade rndex (198o - 1og)                    84.9  102.4  140.9  1t9-3  117.0          100.0   85.8   84.0            82.0   79.6   79.5
Coaposition of nerchandias Trade S)                       rage Annual Incro_e (S)
(at currant prices)                             (at coatant 1980 price)
1960  1970  1975  1980  1985  1990        1960-tg70   1970-195  1975-1980   1980-1985   1985-1990
Ezports                                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        6.6        7.9         1.4        2.4         5.3
Aaiculture                                93.0  92.0  80.7  69.5  68.4  60.4             5.7         6.6        0.7         1.3        2.6
Industry (ezcluding crude oil)             7.0   8.0  19.3  3r .5  31.6  36.8           15.2        16.1        6.8        4.7        10.0
Crude Oil                                   -      -      -     -      -    2.8           -          -           _          -           _
Imports                                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        9.0        7.2         7.7       -6.0         5.7
PC"                                       10.0  11.0  12.0  13.3  19.1  19.9            7.4         0.5       25.2        2.2         6.6
petreulwm                                  9.0   9.0  14.0  18.6   4.5   1.3             7.5        10.7       25.0      -27.5       -20.9
Machinery and Equi±ment                    30.0  26.0  28.0  27.9  24.1  23.3            6.5         5.3       16.4       -12.5        4.9
Otber.                                    51.0  54.0  46.0  40.2  52.3-  55.5           10.8       -0.1        13.5  -     0.5         7.0
Share of Trde with                      Shre of Trade with                     Shae  f Trade with
Industrial Countries                    Developing Contries ()             Capital surplus Oil xorter. U)
1965  1970  1975  1979                 1965  1970  t975  1979                   1965  1970  1975  1979
DIRECTON OF T24DE
Exporta                              82.4  86.9  70.0  81.4                  13.0  1t.1  24.2  11.3                   0.6   0.2   0.0   2.7
Agriculture                        84.2  89.9  75.9    -                  t1-O    7.9  18.2    -                    0.6   0.2   0.0    -
Industry (excluding crude aol)     50.3  38.2  26.5    -                   49.0  60.7  68.1      -                  0.0   0.0   0.0    -
Iaporta                              84.7  84.0  71.8  81.3                 14.1  14.3  21.4   6.5                    0.0   0.1   1.3  11.7



-52-                                 MU~~~~~~~~NU I
pag 6
rnon CO*  - er1*A8 OF PA1us. CUTI*L CIfTL AID DDt
-(aLliems UMS at carrent priced
Populatio: 8.240 (mid-1960. tboua.na)
GNP per capita. Us1.150 (1960)
Actuia                              preliminary                          Projected
Indicator
1970  1975  1976  1977  1976         1979      tgB0      1981     1962         1963       1905     I-go
DALA%CZ OF PAUZIT
Rzports of Goodo and Services            573  1507  199   2725  2962          3255.7   5577.9   2901.4   2780.8         2717.2   3241.8   5570.0
of which: l.rchmudi-e r.o.b.           497  1239  175  2346  2325           2514.3   3142.0   2537.0   24324          2363.8   2810.2   4907.0
Imorts or goods and services             646  1933  1795  2429  3131         3438.8   42t4.9   3602.5   3273-6          3034.7   3651.0   569.2
of whicb: Narcheudjee f.o.b.           375  1012  1161  1677  214Z          2313.1   278.9   2236.3   2050.3          1958.5   2407.2   4234.8
Not Transfere                             34    42  -404  -494  -723         -1152.4  -1057.0   -515.5   -560.2         -47n.5   -499.8   -264.1
Curtnt Aecount  Bin=e                    -38  -384  -206  -196  -692        -1355.5  -1694.0  -1214.6  -1055.0          -795.0  -9.0   -593.3
Private Direct lnveteent                 31    el    37       3    59         103.3    10t.8    110.4    133.3          147.1    t77.0    325.0
I= Loan (net)                             50   249   241   542   760          695.3    651.9    526.3    827.7           248.3    279.8   -415.9
O-Mcial                                 34    75    65   158   153           234.0    202.1      76.4    300.8         363.0    365.0    125.3
Privte                                  15   174   176   364   627          461.3     69.8    449-9    526.9         -.34.7    -85.2   .541.2
Other Capital                             .4   -39    31  -226   126           505.5     85.1      35.1        0            0         0      500.4
Cb*ue   in R-e-ryn (increase             -39    95  -103  -121   -75          251.4    648.2    544.8       92.0         399.6    452.2        0
International REserve                      -     -      -      -      -          -    -.98.6  -1553.4  -162584         -2025.0  -2970.7  -2545.7
of whicb: Gold
ReBer-s an months laporte                  -      -     -      -      -          -       -1.9      -t.7      -1.          -o.e       0.2       1.5
==AL CAPITAL AID DESr
Gross Disburemnt
Official Crant                           -      -      -     -    20           25       30        55        39           42        51 t5
Co=aial Loan.                           32    34      4            64         27        41        71        53           75        91       104
DAC                                   24    23    37    24    30             15       27        25        32           52        80        91
OPEC                                   -      -      -     -      -           -        _         -         _            -         _         _
IDA                                    -      1     2      4      1          -         -         2
Other                                  6      9     6    17    33            12       14        44        21           23        I         13
on-eonee±onmel Loan                     45   291   342   865   932            97e      s88      1401       866          751       993      469
OMfefcl Export. Credits -   laterl    6    20    21    89    28             101       26       186        77           97       135        92
1 BR                                   3    25    14    37    58             51       40        64       244          501       259       g90
Other Eultilaterrl                     1    15      7    11    32            28       t0        92        13            9        10         9
Pr.ivte                               34   231   299   727   815            798      805      1059       532          34        5619      178
Bt-rnal Debt
Dcbt Outtaondlsg n Dieburmed           256   916  1167  1962  2609           3667     426       4389      6459         4707      5219     4064
Oft-ci.                              144   378   433   612   799           1054     1183      1134      1372         1755      2421      3222
Private                              112   55    734  1351  2010           2613     3106      3255      387          2952.    2796        842
Undisbursed Debt                       168   560   974  1666  1660           1507     1430      204       1603         1584      1584      1967
Debt Service
Total Service Peyments                  39   132   175   288   415            568      855       926       931         1073      1514      1711
Interet                               12    56    66   104   171            250      329       379       520          454       546       575
Payment  S %Exports                      7      9     9    10    14            17       23        27        33           39        47        31
Average Iater-t Rate on New Loan. C)    5.9   8.0   7.5   7.7   8.6             8.1       8.5       8.2                   10.7      10.0      10.0
Official                               4.9   7.3   6.9   6.6                   -         -         -               -           -         -
Private                                7.5   8.5   7.6   8.1        -          -         _         -         _            _         _         _
Averap Nturity or low Loan. (Jears)    18.5  12.6  10.6  11.2   9.8            It.5       8.0      10.7      11.1         15-3      14.1      15.5
Orffie.l                              22.5  18.0  16.9  18.7                       -               -           -        -           -
Private                               12.0   8.7   9.0   9.1        -           -        -         -         -            -         -         -
An % of Debt Outstanding
at Red of Rot Recant
Year (1979)
Maturity Structure of Dbt Otattandif
Principal due within 5 year                                        52.6
Principal due witbin 19 years                                      87.6
Interest 3tructure of Debt Outn tending
InteD-t due within five year.                                      26.6
Veetarn Africa  egiOn
1e 1963



ANNEX II
Page 1
- 53 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 19983)
US$ Millions
Loan or               Fiscal                                (less cancellations)
Credit No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose         Ban1      IDA  Undisbursed
One           Credit  Fully Disbursed                             7.5
Twenty five   Loans   Fully Disbursed                   415.2
981-IVC       1974    Ivory Coast       Telecom-          17.4              5.2
munications
1177-IVC      1976    BIDI              DFC               8.0               1.4
1347-IVC      1977    Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       30.0               5.4
1348-T-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       14.0               2.5
1484-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast       Water Supply     16.0               1.6
1501-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast       Feeder Roads     29.0               6.7
1575-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast       Rubber II        20.0               0.2
1577-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast       Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0              13.6
1633-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast       Rubber III        7.6               1.2
1663-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast       CCI-Artisanu     12.6               9.6
1698-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast       Tourism II       14.2               9.1
1735-IVC      1980    Ivory Ccast       Forestry         18.0              10.1
1777-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast       Education III    24.0              17.4
1827-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast       Rural Dev.        9.4               7.8
1896-IVC      1981    EECI              Power            33.0              30.6
1914-IVC      1981    Ivory Coast       Highway Sctr    100.0              84.5
2048-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast       Urban Dev II     51.0              50.8
2059-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast       Tech. Asst.       16.0             15.8
2130-IVC 1/   1982    Ivory Coast       2nd Water Sp     43.0              43.0
2167-IVC T/   1982    Ivory Coast       Center West       13.0             13.0
2189-IVC      1982    Petroci           Petroleum        101.5             70.5
TOTAL                                   1,025.9    7.5      400.0
of which has been repaid                63.8     -
TOTAL now outstanding                     962.1    7.5
Amount sold                     5.1
of which has been repaid    5.1          0.01    -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA            962.1    7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                         400.0    0.0      400.0
1/   not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
- 54 -
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1983)
(uss '000)
Type of
Year   Obligator                   Business          Loan      Equity    TOTAL
1965   Banque Ivoirienne de        Industrial          -         204.0     204.0
Developpement Industriel   Development Bank
1978   do.                         do.                 -         219.5   219.5
1977   Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.   Textiles            -          884.7   884.7
1980   Societe Ivoirienne          Fertilizers      5,120.0   1,272.0   6,392.0
d'Engrais
1980   MSO                         Flour Mill       2,900.0      406.7   3,306.7
Total Gross Coimitments                      8,020.0   2,986.9   11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold or repaid                 -           -         -
TOTAL commitments now held by IFC                   8,020.0   2,986.9   11,006.9



ANNEX II
- 55 -                         Page 3
C.    Projects in Execution 2.
Loan No. 981     Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million loan of May 3,
1974; Effectiveness Date: JanuarY 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project has experienced a four-year slippage due initially to
delays in appointing engineering consultants and subsequently to management
and organizational deficiencies. After the Government awarded the contract
for switching equipment to other than the lowe3t evaluated bidder, the amount
earmarked under the loan to finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including
contingencies) was cancelled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A reorganization
of the Postal and Telecommunications Office took place in the Fall of 1981,
together with the appointment of competent managers. This important
development is expected to resijlt in completion of the project by mid-1983.
Loan No. 1177    BIDI DFC Project: US$8.0 million loan of December 12, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The availability of less costly funds to BIDI in the past slowed
down the commitment of this line of credit. As the situation has changed
during the last year, however, this loan has now been fully committed.
Loan No. 1347    Urban Development Project: US$44.0 million; Loans and 1348-T
(US$30.0 and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third Window terms
respectively) of December 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
March 9, 1978; Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily.  The
transport, trunk sewer, community facilities, technical assistance, and low-
cost housing components are completed. The upgrading component, which suf-
fered delays caused by adminiszrative and legal procedures, is now proceeding
well, and is expected to be completed by mid-1983.
Loan No. 1484    Secondar-y Centers Water Supply Project; US$16.0 million loan
of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.  Physical works have
been completed on schedule, but delays have been experienced in the training
component of the project and in the execution of a study on village well con-
struction and maintenance.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems and actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read
with the understanding that they do not present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
- 56 -
Loan No. 1501    Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project; US$29.0 million
loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 17,
1978; Closing Date September 30, 1984.
Overall work progress is slower than anticipated, particularly as it
relates to works carried out by the local contractor. Actions taken by RMWA
are expected to speed up implementation of the project, which otherwise is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1575    Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project: US$20.0 million loan of
June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
Following the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand
Bereby rubber plantations (SOGB), amended legal documents for the project were
submitted for approval by the Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on
August 6, 1980. They became effective on September 15, 1980. Project execu-
tion has proceeding satisfactorily, and the Loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1577    Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project US$33.0 million
loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 14, 1979;
Closing Date June 30, 1983.
Project execution is rroceeding satisfactorily, although house
connections to the sewerage system are progressing at a slower rate than
anticipated. Remedial action in this respect is being discussed with the
Government.
Loan No. 1633    SAPH Rubber Project; US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Smallholder rubber
plantings are ahead of schedule and the project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1663    Artisans-, Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$12.6 million loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although commitments
and disbursements are about six months behind schedule because of a slackening
in demand resulting from the overall lower investment activity in the country.
Loan No. 1698    Second Tourism Development Project: US$14.2 million loan of
June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Three large hotels
are under construction and nine small hotel sub-projects have been approved.
Over 60% of the loan amount has been committed.



ANNEX II
Page 5
- 57 -
Loan No. 1735    Forestry Project: US$18.0 million loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
Dscember 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The 1980 plantation
program covering 4,000 ha was executed and plantations have been well main-
tained. Subsequent plantations have been on schedule. All project-provided
staff have now taken up their appointments.
Loan No. 1777    Third Education Project US$24.0 million loan of December 28,
1979; Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
After initial delays of about one year due to the technical weakness
of some consultant architects and slowness in awarding civil works contracts,
project implementation is improving and most components are expected to be
successfully completed. A sharp increase in disbursements is expected now
that civil works have begun.  The train.ing of local staff and the preparation
of equipment procurement are well underway.
Loan No. 1827    North-East Savannah Rural Development Project; US$9.4 million
loan of May 27, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Project execution began well, but has not been progressing as
smoothly during the past year, owing to difficulties involved in coordinating
the various actions called for by a number of institutions. The applied
research program, however, is proceeding satisfactorily and project progress
is being c1osely monitored.
Loan No. 1896    First Power Project :US$33.0 million loan of September 11,
1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The studies under the project have been carried out on schedule.
Physical works, however, are delayed for about one year, due to the much
longer than expected time required for selection by CIDA and EECI of engineer-
ing consultants for the project (including Bank-financed components) and
subsequent negotiations with the consultants.
Loan No. 1914    Highway Sector Project; US$100.0 million loan of March 19,
1981; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, and the dialogue on
sector policies and issues is proving fruitful. Disbursements, however, were
initially slower than projected at the time of appraisal, but are now expected
to pick up considerably.



ANNEX II
- 58 -                            Page 6
Loan No. 2048    Second Urban Development Project; US$51.0 million loan of
October 9, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 28, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Delays in finaliz-
ing the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of the Ivory Coast
and SOTRA initially delayed the effectiveness of this loan. Nonetheless,
invitation for tenders and selection of consultants procedures are being
carried out on schedule.
Loan No. 2059    Technical Assistance Project; US$16.0 million loan of
December 3, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is being executed satisfactorily. Ten long-term
advisers have now assumed their responsibilities under the project, and
several short-term advisory missions have taken place, including one to assist
the Government in preparing a master plan for agricultural research. Ten
ministries have benefited from the project, and $3.0 million of the loan has
been committed.
Loan No. 2130 1i/ Second Water Supply Project; US$43.0 million loan of June 18,
1982; Closing Date: Narch 31, 1988.
Loan No. 2167 1/ Center-West Agricultural Development Project; US$13.0 million
loan of September 27, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
Loan No. 2189    Petroleum Exploration and Development Project; US$101.5
million loan of June 30, 1982; Effectiveness Date: September
28, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
1/   Loan not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
- 59 -
IVORY COAST
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMFjNT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Request from Minister of Finance for
a Second Structural Adjustment Loan                   June 1982
(b)  Identification mission.                               November 1982
(c)  Preparation mission:  Housing Policy                  January 1983
(d)  Preparation mission:  Industrial Policy               February 1983
(e)  Appraisal and prenegotiation mission                  April 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations                            May 31, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                         July 15, 1983
Section 2: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section 3:  Special Conditions
Disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed loan would be
contingent on satisfactory progress in carrying out the Structural
Adjustment Program and in particular on the following measures being
taken:
Ci) adoption of a satisfactory public investment program for 1984,
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) establishment of a financial program for 1984 to further reduce
internal and external imbalances, satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii) adoption of 1984 budgets, acceptable to the Bank, for SODESUCRE,
SETU, SICOGI and SOGEFIHA reflecting agreed programs of reform of
these agencies, and of satisfactory 1984 budgets for CIDT,
PALMINDUSTRIE and SATMACI;
(iv) adoption of the new Investment Code;



ANNEX III
- 60 -                            Page 2 of 2
(v)  abolition of quantitative restrJctions on imports for a list of
products, acceptable to the Bank, and replacing these quantitative
restrictions with a declining system of temporary import
surcharges for a period of less than five years;
(vi) adoption of the export subsidy scheme and custom tariff revision
program in a manner acceptable to the Bank.



ANNEX IV
- 61 -                             Page 1
NOTE ON THE ECONOMIC SITUATION IN THE IVORY COAST
1.       This aote provides a detailed review of economic developments sinne
1976. It covers the background to the crisis in the period 1976 to 1980, the
course of the economy during the implementation of the fiziancial recovery
program in 1981 and 1982, the present economic situation and the outlook for
economic adjustment over the short and medium-term.
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND POLICY ISSUES: 1976-1982
(a) The Economic Situation from 1976 to 1980
2.       Over the past five years, the Ivory Coast economy has been subject
to a series of external shocks: the coffee and cocoa boom in 1976 and 1977, a
40 percent decline in the terms of trade following the sharp drop in coffee
and cocoa prices in 1978, the subsequent increase in the price of imported
oil, and, more recently, sharp increases in real interest rates on interna-
tional financial markets. These shocks led to a rapid deterioration of the
financial situation of the country and to two consecutive years of stagnation
in 1981-82, in sharp contrast with the continuous record of economic growth
which took place since the early sixties.
3.       During the coffee and cocoa boom, the price of these commodities mul-
tiplied by 3.6 and 2.2 respectively between 1975 and 1977. Large surpluses
were generated for the Stabilization Fund and a substantial improvement took
place in the balance of payments situation. Government launched an ambitious
investment program, and the share of public investment increased from 15 to
over 25 percent of GDP between 1976 and 1978. This program was financed with
Stabilization Fund surpluses and external borrowing, which was available in
connection with the balance of payment surpluses. The share of investment
financed by national savings thus fell from 50 to less than 20 percent between
1976 and 1978 while the gross inflows of public capital increased from CFAF 56
billion to about 200 CFA billions between 1975 and 1977.  GDP grew by almost
10 percent in real terms in 1978.
4.       However, between 1977 and 1979 coffee and cocoa prices declined by 28
and 13 percent respectively, and remained constant at these lower levels until
the first half of 1980. In this period the public investment program was
maintained at some 20 percent of GDP. As a result, while the Ivory Coast's
terms of trade declined by 15 percent between 1977 and 1978, as a result of
the export price decline, and by another 17 percent between 1978 and 1980, due
mainly to sharp increases in import prices, Government had to rely increas-
ingly on foreign borrowing to finance its investment program. With sharp
rises in current budgetary outlays and public euterprise losses, a public
Bector deficit of the order of 10 percent of GDP appeared in 1979, rising to
12.8 percent in 1980. The balance of payments turned negative in 1979. This
situation was further aggravated by the abrupt decline in coffee and cocoa
prices which started in the second half of 1980. In 1980, the current account
deficit represented 16 percent of GDP, and the net foreign assets of the
Central Bank were exhausted despite continued heavy borrowing abroad. Accord-
ingly, a CFAF 118 billion overdraft was registered in the operations account
of the UNOA with the French Treasury in that year.



ANNEX IV
- 62 -                            Page 2
5.       This sharp deterioration in the internal and external financial
situation affected the Ivory Coast at a critical phase of its development.
Arter two decades of growth essentially based on the exploitation of the most
obvious areas of comparative advantage, particularly in agriculture, and on
the development of a dynamic, although still limited, industrial base, the
growth potential of the country progressively deteriorated during the second
part of the seventies. This can be summarized principally as the result of:
the low economic returns on the expanded public investment program launched in
1977; the distortion in the system of macroeconomic and sectoral incentives in
the face of rapid changes in the external environment of the country; and
inadequate support to agricultural development.
6.       The rapid expansion of the public investment program in the second
half of the seventies was accompanied by a sharp deterioration in the quality
of investment projects. By comparison with the 1971-75 plan, the increase in
the public investment program in the 1976-80 plan was mainly allocated to
large projects with high unit costs. In agriculture for instance, most of the
increased investment was for six sugar complexes, with operating unit costs
two to three times above world market prices. In education, the investment
program was burdened by several over-designed high education facilities, which
led to high recurrent costs. In transportation, the main problem has been the
excessive scale of highway investment. It has been estimated 1/ that the
incremental national income from the $8 billion spent on the public investment
program from 1976-80 was approximately 40 percent less than it would have been
if earlier standards had been maintained. This translates into an annual
cost, in terms of foregone earnings, imposed on the economy equivalent to
about 5 percent of GDP levels in the early 1980's.
7.       The distortion of the system of incentives imposed further constraints
on growth and on the capacity of the country to adjust in the face of rapidly
changing external conditions. The rapid acceleration in the rate of domestic
inflation after 1975, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade bet-
ween 1978 and 1982 led tc a substantial overvaluation of the CFA franc vis-a-
vis the currencies of Ivory Coast's main trading partners. Although major
agricultural products withstood the overvaluation, thanks to the margins pro-
vided by their considerable comparative advantage, this was not the case in
the industrial sector, where these margins are much narrower. In particular,
the expansion of the industrial sector was directly compromised by the strong
bias against exports inherent in the system of industrial incentives, at a
time when the most obvious opportunities for exports within the protected CEAO
markets had already been exploited, when the Ivory Coast had to turn to non-
regional markets to sustain the growth of its industrial base and to generate
the foreign exchange earnings required to balance its external accounts.
8.       Finally, the growth potential of the country has suffered from the
inadequate support to agricultural development. Although agriculture has been
a key to the successful development of the country, agricultural development
projects have remained a small part of the public investment program in recent
years, apart from the large expenditures incurred for the six sugar complexes.
1/ See President's Report SAL I, pp. 4-5, P-3143-IVC, November 2, 1981.



ANNEX IV
-63 -                              Page 3
New efficient projects have not been prepared at an adequate pace by the
Ministry of Agriculture. Nore fundamentally, as discussed in Part II the
Government only recently placed increased priority on the definition of a
coherent development strategy for the sector, in particular on the design of
an adequate system of agricultural incentives to exploit the medium to long-
term ,omparative advantage of the country in particular crops.
(b) The Economic Situation in 1981 and 1982: The implementation of the
financial recovery program.
9.       The external environment of the Ivorian economy worsened in 1981 and
1982. First, mainly because of a further large decline in coffee and cocoa
prices, the terms of trade decreased by 17% during the period and were by the
end of 1982 about 40% lower than the 1977 peak, one of the sharpest deterio-
rations n the world economy.  This evolution occurred despite the implementa-
tion of export quotas under the international coffee agreement which led the
Ivorian government, followirg a record crop in 1981, to build a stock which
peaked at 325,000 tons in June 1982, representing 14 months of exports and
7.5 percent of GDP. Second, high interest rates on the international finan-
cia:. market substantially increased the - *1ht service burden as the Ivory Coast
became more dependent on non-concessional loans to finance its public invest-
ment policy until 1980. Third, the worldwide depression led to a quasi-
stagnation of imports by the Ivory Coast's main trade partners which impeded
growth of its exports while a 10 percent inflatiGn rate affected imports from
its main suppliers in 1981 and 1982.
10.      This period has also been characterized by a rapid change in exchange
rates. The 55 percent depreciation oZ the CFA franc vis-a-vis the US dollar
bet-ween the beginning of 1981 and the end of 1982 led to a substantial reduc-
tion in the degree of overvaluation of the real purchasing-power-parity ex-
change rate of tbs ivory Coast vis-a-vis its main trading partners, partially
compensating the negative impact of the deterioration in terms of trade on the
equilibrium exchange rate. This evolution led to increased revenues in CFA
francs and enabled the Government to maintain internal producers' prices of
its main agricultural exports despite the declinc in their US$ prices on the
world market and had a favorable impact on the trade balance. At the same
time, it s'tarply increased the debt service burden of the country as more CFA
francs were required to service the same dollar denominated debt. Finally,
this period was marked by the development of local oil production which was,
however, not as rapid as anticipated when the Government designed its
financial recovery program.
11.      Despite these unfavorable factors beyond its control, and which
slowed the recovery pace to less than had been expected, the Government
succeeded in reducing overall external and internal imbalances. This was
achieved through an intensification of the stringent fiscal and monetary
policies in place since 1980.
12.      The dsterioration in the external environment together with implemen-
tation of the financial stabilization plan caused a sharp slowdown in the
econozic activity. For the first time since 1960, the country experienced a
decrease in national income. GDP in real terms is estimated to have declined



ANNEX IV
- 64 -                            Page 4
by 3.4 percent between 1980 and 1982 compared with a 6.1 percent average in-
crease between 1976 and 1980. In 1981 GDP receded by 1.6 percent despite a
favorable agricultural campaign, due in particular to a- record coffee crop of
367,000 tons, which led to 4.6 percent growth in the agricultural sector. The
services sectnr was particularly hit by the recession (-3.7 percent) while
industry stagnated (-0.2 percent). As a result, employment in the modern
sector declined by 9.7 percent. In 1982, GDP is estimated to have declined by
a further 1.8 percent. Value added in the agricultura'l sector decreased by
3.7 percent, food crop production increasing by 2.6 percent while cash crops
declined by about 10 percent, the impact of an excellent cocoa crop of 456,000
tons being more than counterbalanced by the return of the coffee harvest to
its normal level. The recession was particularly marked in industry (-3.6
percent), while services declined further by 1.6 percent, leading to new
layoffs. The sources and uses of resources are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: MACROECONKOIC INDICATORS
1978    1979   1980   1981    1982   1983
GDP at market prices
Growth rate in constant prices    9.9      2.0     6.3   -1.6    -1.8    2.2
Agriculture                   4.9      1.2    11.0    4.6    -3.7   -1.7
Industry (excl. crude oil)    9.1     3.2      3.9   -0.2    -3.6   -1.6
Services                     12.3      1.8     4.8   -3.7    -1.6   -1.7
Crude Oil                     -       --       --   410.1    87.6   97.7
Use of resources
(in percentage of GDP)
Consumption                  71.1    75.1    77.8   81.5    82.1   81.8
of which public              16.4    17.0    18.2   18.0    18.5   18.1
private             54.7    58.1    59.6   63.5    63.6   63.7
Investment                   29.8    27.1    27.1   25.3    23.5   21.6
Resource Balance             -0.9    -2.6    -6.1   -6.7    -5.7   -3.9
Gross domestic savings           28.9    24.9    22.2   18.5    17.9   18.2
13.      During this period, the situation in the energy sector changed
rapidly.  First, the country is close to self-sufficiency level for petroleum
products. Local oil production which started in 1980 on the Belier offshore
field reached an average annual level of about 1.3 million tons by the ei:d of
1982 when a second offshore field, Espoir, began to produce. Investments in
this sector amounted to about CFAF 200 billion during these two years. Explo-
ration drilling has also been active in the framework of four other contracts
to share development. Second, following the coming on-stream of the two dams,
Taboo in 1980 and Buyo in 1981, hydroelectric power reached 90 percent of
electricity production compared with 15 percent five years ago, while consump-
tion continued to rise mainly due to an increase in the distributien and
trsnsportation network. Third, the local refinery has been expanded with a
CFAF 150 billion investment. The 2 million ton hydroskimming unit has been



ANNEX IV
- 65 -                            Page 5
operational since mid-1982 while a 600,000 tons capacity hydrocracking unit is
expected to start production in 1983.
14.      Despite the high level of investment in this sector overall capital
formation in the country declined from 28.3 percent of GDP in 1980 to 23.5
percent in 1982. This was partly due to the sharp decline in government and
public enterprise investments. It was also caused by an important reduction
in new investments by the private modern sector. The decline in operating
margins combined with a large increase in financial charges led the enter-
prises to concentrate on improvement in labor productivity and to reduce
employment for the fourth consecutive year.
15.      The first objective of the stabilization plan is to reduce the over-
all public sector deficit, which rose because of excessive spending between
1976 and 1980 and is at the root of present external imbalances. Results
achieved are impressive. The deficit is estimated to have declined from
12.8 percent of GDP in 1980 to 8.7 percent in 1982 while government arrears
outstanding have been reduced by half to about CFAF 70 billion.
16.      Government revenues have been increased by improving the efficiency
of the tax system, implementing a series of fiscal measures related to excise,
value added, and services taxes, and by freezing since 1979 producer prices of
major cash crops on which the Caisstab (the stabilization fund) levies
margins.
17.      Given the already high level of Government revenues which average
28 percent of GDP the bulk of the budgetary policy focussed on expenditures.
The trend in the expansion in current budget expenditures has been shifted and
a slight decline in real terms took place since 1981. This has been achieved
through the implementation of a wide set of restrictive measures. The most
important are related to: (i) personnel management, new recruitment being
strictly limited while the number of technical assistants has been reduced and
wage increases being kept lower than the inflation rate; (-i) direct and
indirect consumers subsidies have been reduced through tariff increases of
major public services, large price increases of rice and refined petroleum
product prices and elimination of subsidies on cotton sales to local enter-
prises; and (iii) the initiation of important cuts in education expenditures
through, inter alia, reduction in students' fringe benefits and restriction in
scholarships. However, the main effort to control public spending was fo-
cussed on capital expenditures which have been furth6r curtailed by 25 percent
in real terms during the period, mostly by shelving or postponing expensive
non-priority projects. This policy induced a positive shift in the structure
of the public investment program toward productive sectors. Tab.e 2 below
sets forth the breakdown of central goverment financed accounts for the
period.



ANNEX IV
- 66 -                            Page 6
Table 2: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTS
(in percentage of GDP)
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982    1983
Revenue                    32.5      30.7     27.,7    27.8      27.2   28.5
of which taxes             20.4      20.4     20.7      22.1     21.3    19.7
Caisstab          10.1      7.8       3.9      1.3       2.5     3.3
Other              2.0       2.5      3.1      4.4       3.4     5.5
Current expenditures        19.5     21.3     21.6      23.7     25.3    25.4
of which current budget    15.3      15.8     16.0      15.9     15.9    15.7
interest           2.0       2.6      3.2      4.8       7.1     8.2
Other              2.2       2.9      2.4      3.0       2.3     1.5
Public Savings              13.0      9.3      6.1       4.1      1.9     3.1
Public investment           25.5     18.8     17.8      13.8     13.7    11.9
(Loi-Programme definition)
Public Sector deficit       -8.3    -10.4    -12.8      -8.9     -8.7    -6.2
(in CFAF billion)        (-149)   (-202)   (-285)   (-204)   (-221)  (-176)
18.      Budgetary policy was reinforced by a tight monetary policy.  Strict
ceilings on domestic credit have been implemented. In particular, the in-
crease in public sector liabilities have been reduced from CFAF 120 billion in
1980 to CFAF 100 billion in 1981 and to only CFAF 20 billion in 1982. The
Central Bank reinforced its control on credit distribution through the exist-
ing prior authorization scheme, monthly target on commercial bank's assets,
and recommendations on the sectoral distribution of domestic credit. The
joint effects of this policy and of the slowdown in economic activity induced
a sharp reduction in the growth of money supply. Ordinary credit to the
private sector incre3sed by onlY 3.4 percent in 1981 and 8.5 percent in
1982. This low domestic demand for credit enabled the commercial banks to
reduce their foreign l_abilities which were more expensive than their local
resources until April 1982 when the West African Monetary Union decided to
increase by 2 percent its discount rates. Normal discount rates were raised
to 12.5 percent which corresponded to lending rates by primary banks of 17.5
percent on average, excluding taxes, and about 22 percent including a value
added tax of 25 percent. Rates paid on large deposits reached 16 percent
which was competitive with international market rates. The main feature of
the monetary situation has been however the further important increase in net
foreign liabilities of the Central bank which rose from CFAF 127 billion to
CFAF 323 billion during the period. These were financed through purchases of
resources from the IMF and an increase in the deficit of the UNOA's operations
account with the French treasury.
19.      Inflation, measured at the private consumption level, averaged 11
percent a year between 1980 and 1982, about the same level as during the three
previous years. This high level, given the reduction in the activity and the
tight monetary policy, has been caused by two main factors. On the one hand,



ADNEX IV
- 67 -                            Page 7
import prices continued to rise rapidly due to the depreciation of the cur-
rency and the inflation rate in France; on the other hand, the important
tariff and price increases which were implemented in 1981 in the framework of
the stabilization program. Recent price index movements indicate more favor-
able prospects for 1983.
The external accounts
20.      The deterioration in the situation of net foreign assets of the
country reflects the evolution of the balance of payments which is the most
important short-term preoccupation. After the sharp deterioration between
1978 and 1980 the balance of payments current account deficit declined from
16 percent of GDP in 1980 to 13.7 percent in 1982, as is shown in Table 3.
Table 3: BAIANCE OF PATh]NE
(in perxenta  of GDP)
1978   1979   1980   198L  Ml    193
Ezport FOB                    33.1   29.8   29.4   32.5  32.2  31.1
import FOB                   -259   -24.4  -24.6  -24.5  -23.0  -21.0
Trade iBance                  7.2    5.4    4.8    8.0   9.2  10.1
Net Service and Transfers    -17.1  -19.9  -a).8  -22.4  -22.9  -3).l
of  idch interest on pablic debt (22)   (2.7)  (3.0)  (4.4)  (6.8)  (7.4)
salazy renittmice    (5.8)   (6.3)  (6.1)  (6.7)  (6.2)  (5.2)
Current account balanoe       -9.9  -14.5  -16.0  -14.4  -13.7  -10.0
CaitalIdbement                11.7    8.3    9.9    7.9  11.7   6.1
(of -hdi official capital)    (10.1)  (6.1)  (8.1)  (6.2) (10.8)  (4.3)
OverEl BIaane                  1.1   -7.0   -6.1   -6.4  -1.9  -5.0
(in CFAF billion)             (90)  (-137)  (-136)  (-148)  (-49) (-142)
Yb!randut Items
Oacge in tezs of tade      -15.3   -1.9  -14.5  -14.2  -2.1  -2.3
Debt service ratio to
GMS exports                13.5   17.1   24.5   2B.3  33.7  39.5
21.      The Ivory Coast traditionally has a positive trade balance.  After
steadily declining from 1977 to 1980 the trend reversed itself in 1981. Des-
pite the deterioration in terms of trade, the surplus rose from 4.8 percent of
GDP in 1980 to 8 perceit in 1981 and is estimated at 9.2 perceat in 1982.
Progress has been mainly due to the impact of the economic recession and of
the start of oil production on imports which declined by 17.5 percent in con-
stant prices during this period.



ANNEX IV
- 68 -                            Page 8
22.      The counterpart of the extensive use by the country of foreign fac-
tirs of production is the large deficit in services and transfers. Private
transfers abroad, which had increased very raridly between 1977 and 1980,
daclined by about 16 percent in real terms between 1980 and 1982. On the
other hand, interest on external debt soared from CFAF 68 billion to 171
billion, i.e. about 6.8 percent of GDP, mainly due to changes in exchange
rates and interest rates. This increase nearly wiped out improvements in the
trade balance. Accordingly the current account balance deficit remained too
high to lead to overall balance of payments equilibrium.
23.      Two major changes occurred on the capital account balance.  First
gross public borrowings rose from about CFAF 280 billion in 1980 and 1981 to
CFAF 410 billion in 1982. This is the consequence of public sector deficit
financing requirements and reduction in arrears combined with strict ceilings
on net domestic assets of this sector. The improved profile of new borrow-
ings, with no loans of less than five years maturity, limited the increase in
debt amortization from CFAF 100 billion to 125 billion despite the deprecia-
tion of the CFAF vis-a-vis the US dollar in which about 38.5 percent of out-
standing external public debt had been contracted by the end of 1980. As a
result, net public capital inflows increased from 8.1 percent of GDP in 1980
to 10.8 percent in 1982. Second, as noted earlier, 1982 has been charac-
terized by net outflows of monetary capital. As a consequence, the overall
balance of payment deficit declined from about CFAF 140 billion in 1980 to
CFAF 50 billion in 1982, while the ratio debt service to exports of goods and
non factor services increased from 24.5 percent in 1980 to 33.7 percent in
1982.
(c) The Present Economic Situation
24.      Growth of GDP is expected to resume in 1983 at a 2.2 percent rate due
Go a two-fold increase in oil production while value added in the other sec-
tors of the economy should decline by about 1.5 percent despite the recent
lowering by 2 percent of lending interest rates following the easing on the
international financial market. This forecast takes into account initial
estimates of the impact of the exceptional drought and the bush and forest
fires which characterized Vhis year's dry season.  Government is currently
assessing the magnitude of these developments on the 1983-84 crops. Export
earnings should not be reduced as the country's coffee stocks built after the
record 1981 crop still represent 7 months of exports, and price increases are
expected to compensate for a decline in volume of cocoa exports. Despite the
recent decline in interest rates and the new CFAF exchange rate situation, the
financial situation of the country will remain tight. The cumulative effects
of the financial stabilization plan are expected, however, to lead to further
important reductions in external and internal imbalances; the balance of pay-
ments current account deficit is expected to decline from 13.7 percent to
10.0 percent of GDP and the public sector deficit from 8.8 percent to 6.2 per-
cent of GD?. These improvements will mainly stem from the evolution of
imports, which should decline by 5.5 percent in real terms, and from a further
6 percent reduction in real terms in public investment expenditures, and,
2 percent in current budget expenditures. The Government has decided to
sharply reduce, by CFAF 110 billion, gross foreign borrowings and has obtained



ANNEX IV
-69 -                              Page 9
agreement from the Monetary Union to mobilize the counterpart of IMF pur-
chases. Following the decline in official capital inflows an increse of about
CFAF 90 billion in the overall balarce of payments deficit is forecast.
Despite tne strict borrowing policy implemented since 1980 the ratio of debt
service to exports of goods and non factor services will still increase from
33.1 percent in 1982 to an estimated 39.5 percent in 1983 reflecting the
impact of unfavorable export prices and the lagged effects of high interest
rates, past investment policy and the evolution in exchange rates structure.
25.      At present; the outlook for the international economy is for no large
improvement in the terms of trade, and the financial constraints on economic
development are likely to remain tight over the next few years. The Govern-
ment's objective to resume GDP per capita growth during the second half of the
decade requires the continuation of the current restrictive fiscal and mone-
tary policies until at least 1985 combined with an acceleration of the struc-
tural adjustment process.
II. ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
26.      Since the forecast of Ivorian wconomy made at the end of 1981 in
conjunction with SAL I, the economic outlook has deteriorated significantly.
27.      First, the pace of development of oil resources is likely to be
slower than originally anticipated. Current projections have been made under
the hypothesis that only two new oilfields will enter into production in 1986
and 1987, their levels and profiles being identical to the two existing ones.
Accordingly, sizeable surpluses for exports are not likely to materialize
before 1987, and they should not su1rpass 500,000 tons per year by the end of
the decade. Second, price projections for the major primary products exported
by the Ivory Coast (especially cocoa and coffee) have been substantially
revised downward by comparison with the expectations prevailing in 1981.
Third, the period of high interest rates on international markets in 1982 has
increased the debt burden of the Ivory Coast. More recently, decreases in
interest rates of US dollar denominated borrowings have been accompanied by
downward revisions in internatioLal inflation projected for the rest of the
decade, resulting in higher real interest rates than originally anticipated.
28.      The current projections have been made under the assumption that a
strong financial recovery program will be implemented between 1983 and 1985.
This program implies that public investment will be reduced by 6 percent per
year in real terms at least until 1985. Over the same period, government
consumption is assumed to remain constant in real terms, while present efforts
to improve the efficiency of the tax collection system are pursued. Until
1985, the deficit of the balance of payments (net of IMF) is assumed to be
compensated by an increase in the net debit position of the Ivory Coast with
respect to the French Treasury's operations account. Starting in 1986, the
overall deficit of the balance of payments is assumed to be financed through
foreign borrowing at commercial terms, and repayments to the French Treasury's
operations account are assumed at the rate of US$85 million a year.



ANNEX IV
- 70 -                            Page 10
29.      In order to assess the economic outlook of the country taking into
account the impact of the structural adjustment program, two alternative
scenarios have been developed. In the reference scenario carried out without
intensification of the structural adjustment effort, manufactured exports are
assumed to grow at an average annual rate of 3.5 percent until the end of the
decade, in line with projected growth in OECD countries. This compares with a
growth rate of manufactured ex;irts of 10 percent per year under the scenario
with structural adjustment, slightly inferior to the historical rate of growth
of 11 percent. The reference scenario further assumes that import elastici-
ties for other consumer goods and intermediate inputs remain at their his-
torical levels throughout the projection period, while reductions of 5 per-
centag- points in the two elasticities is assumed under the scenario with
structural adjustment after 1985, as a result of expected growth of import
substitution production. Finally, the reference scenario has been carried out
under the assumption that the coefficient linking investment to increments in
GDP in the investment function remains at its historical level, while an
improvement of 1 percentage point is assumed after 1985 under the scenario
with structural adjustment, reflecting improvements in the quality of public
investments.
30.      The results of these projections are subject to a considerable degree
of uncertainty. First, the medium-term outlook for the oil market remains
difficult to predict. While even a substantial change in the price of oil
would have only a marginal impact on the Ivory Coast balance of payments in
the short term, given the relative balance between oil exports and imports in
1983, a sharp downward revision of the price projected over the medium term
could delay the recovery of the Ivorian economy, both directly through its
impact on export L-rowth and indirectly through its impact on public savings
and on the public izvestment program. Second, the projections assume no
further deterioration in the external environment of the country, especially
concernin6 terms of trade and interest rates. Finally, the comparison between
the two scenarios should be made with caution, given the difficulty in pre-
dicting the timing and the magnitude of supply responses to changes in incen-
tives. However, past dynamism of the private sector, both in agriculture and
industry, shows that the capacity of economic agents to react to opportunities
is strong, and that the overall impact of the stru:tural adjustment program
should be beneficial financially as well as economically.
Short-Term Pros2ects: 1983-1985
31.      The financial constraints bearing on the development of the Ivory
Coast will remain very tight over the next three or four years. On the
revenue side, further increases in non-oil tax revenues will depend critically
on Government's ability to improve the efficiency of the tax system, as it
could be unwise to increase tax rates beyond the levels already attained, and
as Caisstab revenues are not likely to increase in real terms given the pro-
spects for coffee and cocoa prices. Major improvements in the net public
finance situation will have to come from the expenliture side: increases in
public expenditures will have to be maintained in line with the rate of infla-
tion and the public investment program will have to be sharply curtailed in
real terms.



ANNEX IV
- 71 -                             Page 11
32.      Following the implementation of this program, the ratio of the public
sector deficit with respect to GDP is expected to fall to about 4.5 percent
in 1985. However, further increases of the debt service ratio are projected,
from 39.5 percent in 1983 to some 43 percent in the 1983-85 period. The de-
terioration in this ratio i", however, not an adequate measure with which to
assess the external financial situation of the country, as the current account
situation is expected to improve as a result of reductions in imports induced
by the increase in domestic oil production after 1983. It is however an
indicator of the very tight external financial situation faced by the Ivory
Coast. With a debt service ratio in the 43 percent range, and continued nega-
tive public savings, the Government will have to manage its external situation
very tightly in o-der to maintain macroeconomic equilibria within reasonable
bounds. At the sane time, sensitivity analyses show that a departure from the
present program could result in a rapid worsening of the external financial
situation of the country, and that the Government no longer has the margins of
manoeuver it enjoyed during the seventies, when the relative debt burden was
much lower.
33.      As a result of the financial stabilization efforts, economic growth
is expected to be lower than population increase until 1985. Real GDP is
forecast to rise by 2.2 percent in 1983, largely as a result of the increase
in oil production, and to grow at about 2 percent per year until 1985. This
slow growth, together with the substitution of local oil for imports, should
result in an improvement in the current account deficit, which is expected to
decline from 10.0 percent of GDP in 1983 to 8.8 percent in 1985.
Medium to Long-Term Prospects: 1986-1990
34.      The evolution of the medium to long-term outlook of the country will
be shaped by the expected impact of the structural adjustment program, the ex-
ternal environment and the profile of oil production.
35.      Under the impetus of the sharp increase in oil production after 1986,
and in the wake of the resumption of real growth of public investment made
possible by higher inflows of oil tax revenues, GDP is projected to grow at an
average annual rate of 4.6 percent between 1985 and 1990 under the reference
scenario. By comparison, a growth rate of GDP of 6.5 percent is projected
over the same period under the scenario with structural adjustment, reflecting
expected improvements in the quality of the public investment program, a rise
in agricultural output as well as the higher rate of growth of manufactured
products. This result shows that only a substantial structural change within
the Ivorian economy can lead to a resumption of the growth of per capita in-
comes after 1985.
36.      The public finance situation improves considerably under both sce-
narios after 1985.  Under the reference scenario, the public sector deficit
does not exceed 1 percent of GDP after 1987, and slight surpluses of the order
of 1 percent of GDP are projected in 1989 and 1990. Under the alternative
scenario, the ublic sector deficit vanishes in 1986, and surpluses of the
order of 3 percent of GDP are projected toward the end of the decade. This
improvement is mainly the result of the sharp increases in oil tax revenues
after 1987, reaching CFAF 150 billion in 1990, or about equal to the surpluses



ANNEX IV
- 72 -                            Page 12
projected for the Stabilization Fund in that year. Under the alternative
scenario, further improvements originate from the relatively lower interest
payments on external public debt, which decrease to 16.3 percent of current
public expenditure in 1990 compared to 18.1 percent in that same year under
the reference scenario.
37.      The positive evolution of public finances is accompanied by a marked
improvement in the external accounts. Under the base scenario, this improve-
ment results essentially from the change in the structure of foreign trade
following the emergence of the oil sector. From a level of 700,000 MT in
1982, imports of crude oil for transformation by the local refinery vanish in
1986, while imports of refined products become marginal after 1983 following
production start-up of the new cracker unit. Exports of crude of the order of
650,000 MT are projected in 1987, levelling off at 450,000 MT by 1990. In
parallel, exports of refined products of the order of 600,000 MT are main-
tained throughout the rest of the decade. By contrast, the growth of non-oil
exports does not improve between 1985 and 1990 by comparison with the 1983-
1985 period. This is due to the fact that the acceleration in the rate of
growth of manufactured exports (from 2.8 percent in 1983-1985 to 3.5 percent
in 1985-90) following the expected modest recovery in OECD countries is offset
by tne decline in the exports of timber, projected at 3 percent per year after
1985. Overall, the impact of the emergence of the oil sector on import
savings and on increased exports results in a substantial amelioration of the
current account balance, whose deficit is reduced to 4.5 percent of GDP in
1990. Under the scenario with structural adjustment, the positive impact of
oil on the external accounts is reinforced by an acceleration in the rate of
growth of non-oil exports (from 2.8 percent in 83-85 to 4.8 percent in 1985-
90), essentially as a result of the rapid increase in manufactured exports,
and by the reduction in the elasticity of imports of consumer goods and inter-
mediate products with respect to GDP. Accordingly, the deficit of the current
balance with respect to GDP is reduced to 2.7 percent in 1990.
38.      Higher export growth ra es and improvements in the public finance
situation after 1985 result in a decline of the debt service ratio to 35.4
percent in 1990. Under the scenario with structura. adjustment, improvements
in the growth of manufactured exports and further reductions in public finan-
cing requirements induce a steady decline ir the debt service ratio to 30.7
percent in 1990.
39.      The internal and external financial constraints, which will remain
very tight during the first part of the decade, should be progressively re-
moved as a function of the successful implementation of the financial recovery
program, the slight improvement in the international environment, and the
expected increase in oil production. However, the resumption of a sustained
growth of per capita incomes in the Ivory Coast will depend on the intensifi-
cation of the structural adjustment program now pursued by the Government. In
this perspective, the reform of the cystem of incentives, both in agriculture
and in industry, improvements in macro management ana in the management of
public enterprises, and improvements in the composition of the public invest-
ment program, should play a key role in shaping a lasting recovery towards the
end of the decade and beyond.



- 73 -                               ANNEX V
Page 1
(Traaslation from French Original)
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Introduction
1.       After a long period of strong and financially balanced growth, Ivory
Coast's economy went through three years of overheating from 1976 to 1978,
chiefly because of the favorable prices for its two main export products,
coffee and cocoa. These factors permitted the Ivory Coast to embark on an
large public investment program, with some poor quality components.
2.       The Ivory Coast subsequently underwent from 1979-1982 a very sharp
deterioration in its external terms of trade, which resulted in a profound
disequilibrium in its balance of trade and balance of payments. Furthermore,
this also affected public revenues, to which CAISSTAB surpluses previously
made important contributions.
3.       Changes in cocoa and coffee prices were not the only factors weighing
on the internal and external equilibria of the country, even if they appeared
to be the most important influence. In 1980 the general economic slowdown
brought with it a stagnation of international trade and a decline in prices of
princlpal commodities. The high US dollar exchange rate and interest rates
which followed this crisis have worsened the economic and financial situation
of those developing countries for whiCh petroleum imports and a growing share
of public debt are payable in US dollars.
4.       As a result, the Ivory Coast's traditional markets, particularly the
CikO and the CEDEAO countries, which accounted by the end of the 1960s for a
substantial share of Ivorian industrial exports, have contracted sharply,
further compounding the difficulties encountered in commodity markets.
5.       Finally, the financial conditions prevailing in the petroleum markets,
and the conditions affecting the Ivory Coast's own petroleum exploration
program, have not enabled national petroleum production to reach the expected
levels.
6.       As a consequence, the Ivory Coast has been experiencing economic and
financial difficulties for several years, and this has led the Government to
adopt programs of stabilization and adjustment of considerable magnitude.
7.       The economic and financial recovery program aims at improving the
public finance and balance of payments situation in the short term and at re-
storing the bases for balanced growth over the medium term.  The progrp.m has
been supported by an extended facility agreement negotiated with the Inter-
national Monetary Fund in February 1981 and by the World Bank through a First
Structural Adjustment Loan granted in November of the same year.



- 74 -                              ANNEX V
Page 2
8.       Considering the evolution of the international environment, restora-
tion of financial and economic equilibria is progressing slowly, in spite of a
restrictive budgetary and monetary policy. Nevertheless, the results already
obtained are significant: the public sector deficit was brought down from
12.8% of GDP in 1980 to 8.9% in 1982 and should reach 6.2% in 1983. The
sector's payment arrears have been reduced from CFAF 140 billion at the end of
1980 to about CFAF 60 billion by the end of 1983. The balance of payments
current account deficit, which represented 16% of GDP in 1980, amounted to
13.7% in 1982 and is estimated at 11.1% in 1983.
9.       Notwithstanding these initial positive results, the Government
intends to maintain its policy of budgetary and monetary austerity for as long
as is necessary to restore completely the country's principal economic and
financial balances. In particular, the Government, which has always respected
its external public debt payments, will continue to give priority to its
financial commitments.
10.      Beyond the short-term stabilization policy, the Government is aware
that the prospects for the international environment remains more unfavorable
than in the past, and that it is necessary to continue and to intensify the
adjustment policy launched more than a year ago. It mainly consists of carry-
ing out a medium- and long-term development strategy which can re-establish
the basis for resuming per capita income growth during the second half of this
decade. To this end, the Government intends to make full use of the economic
policy instruments at its disposal, particularly macroeconomic and sectoral
incentive systems. The Government Is aware of the magnitude of the task to be
accomplished and of the efforts that will be required of different economic
agents: the Government, enterprises, both public and private, and households.
The Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program
11.      In its Letter of Development Policy of November 3, 1981, the Govern-
ment outlined the objectives and measures to be taken in its medium-term
economic adjustment program. The first phase of this program was carried out
in the context of the First Structural Adjustment Loan, during which sub-
stantial progress was made.
12.      The second phase will involve continuing the program, particularly in
agriculture, and new action programs in industry and housing. This second
phase will comprise five principal components:
(a) Further improvement in public finance management. Emphasis will be
placed in particular on rationalizing investment policy and on
progressively restructuring current expenditures.
(b)  Continuation of the rehabilitation of the parastatal sector, in-
cluding the development of the tools needed for global management of
the sector, improvement of the system relating the State and its
enterprises, and rehabilitation of enterprises in financial
difficulties.



- 75 -                          ANNEX V
Page 3
(c)  Continuation of the rationalization of agricultural policy.  This
program is based on a global approach to price, tax and subsidy
policy. It envisages a reorganization of the public enterprises in
this sector, some of which are in deficit, and implementation of a
rural development strategy through modernizing and diversifying
agricultural production, particularly the promotion of foodcrops,
with the long-term goal of self-sufficiency in food.
(d)  Implementation of the adjustment strategy for the industrial sector,
comprising reform of the system of industrial incentives and restruc-
turing of the institutional environment, will make it possible to
enhance the sector's competitiveness and expand exports.
(e)  Implementation of a new urban housing policy.  This policy should
lead to a reduction in the drain on public finances and create the
conditions for a lasting recovery of the construction sector, relying
on private enterprise and on a greater mobilization of private
savings.
Public Investment Policy
13.      The Government has taken steps to cut back the public investment pro-
gram. The volume of public investment has accordingJy fallen from 25% of GDP
in 1978 to 12% in 1983, equivalent to a reduction of 40% in constant prices.
Public investment will not expand in real terms until warranted by the finan-
cial situation of the public sector. The steps taken have also sought to
improve the quality of the investment program and to strengthen project pro-
grnmming, preparation. monitoring and control mechanisms. The Government is
firmly resolved to maintain a rigorous policy in this field and to strengthen
the effectiveness of its control mechanisms.
14.      The principal control mechanisms are:
(a)  The Financial Coordination and Investment Control Committee, which
produces each month the basic tables required for monitoring the
economic situation;
(b)  The Schema-Directeur, the three-year financial program prepared in
June 1982 underlines the need to continue the financial austerity
policy at least until 1985.
(c)  The Loi-Programme, the three-year rolling public investment program,
now includes virtually all public investments and permits centralized
management of the public sector's financing needs.
15.      Starting in 1983 the Government integrated the receipts from oil
production into the central government accounts. The use to be made of these
receipts will be datermined each year by the Finance Law. Thus, for 1983, 80%
of these receipts were allocated to the CAA and 20% to the Investment Budget
(BSIE).  CAISSTAB surpluses have been distributed under the same principles as
follows: 70% have been allocated to the CAA, 20% to financing investments,
and 10% to financing Government current expenditures. In future years the



-76-                                 ANNEX V
Page 4
CAISSTAB surpluses will continue to be allocated along the lines adopted in
1983. Investment projects currently financed by CAISSTAB, primarily the
funding of agricultural agencies, will be integrated into the Investment
Budget.
16.      Significant improvements will be made at each stage of the public
investment programming process. In 1983 and 1984 the Government will stress:
-   Improvement of the short- and medium-term forecasting methods used
for determining the total requirement, the sectoral breakdown, and
the financing plan for the public investment program;
-   Development of sector master plans.  These will be prepared jointly
by the Investment and Planning Directorates and will provide the
technical ministries and public enterprises with the necessary guid-
ance for preparing their investment programs. This improvement will
allow zs6c or allocations to be defined on the basis of a minimum
priority -program and a maximum optional program;
-   Effect4ve coverage of all public enterprises by the Loi-Programme.
In particular, it will record all financial transfers to the para-
statal sector and quarterly reviews of project execution will be
generalized;
-   Appraisal and selection of new projects.   Current financial con-
straints give rise to the need to limit investment expenditures and
to give priority to maintenance and to optimum utilization of
existing infrastructure and facilities. Careful selection of new
projects is therefore all the more important. After initially
stressing technical and financial evaluation, the Government has
decided to strengthen the means and methodologies employed in eco-
nomic appraisal and to systematize project cost-benefit and cost-
efficiency analyses. In particular, all projects requiring an
investment of more than CFAF 1 billion will be subject to an economic
appraisal before any decision is made. The Government and the World
Bank will examine the investment program for 1984 before the end of
1983.
17.      Better recovery of capital costs and recurrent expenditures will be
sought.  The systems in place have been improved and are now considered satis-
factory in some sectors. However, they need to bs reviewed in other sectors
that still weigh heavily on public finances. The Government is payiLg par-
ticular attention in this respect to education, urban transport and housing,
since these constitute a heavy burden on the operating budget. Improvement of
the systems for recovering recurrent expenditures is one of the principal
options included in the preparation of the SOTRA program-contract and in
defining the new urban housing policy. The Government has already taken some
important steps to limit the growth of budgetary expenditures on education;
other measures, concerning in particular the distribution of study fellow-
ships, will be put into effect at the beginning of the next academic year. In
order to improve management of this sector, which takes up nearly 45% of the
operating budget, the Government has decided to introduce, along with the



-77 -                               ANNEX V
Page 5
present budgetary procedures, a system for programming current expenditures
that will include the establishment of standard unit costs by type of educa-
tion; this will improve the efficiency of this sector that is essential for
the country's development. This system should become operational in 1984.
Nanagement of the Parastatal Sector
18.      The parastatal sector experienced considerable, though sometimes
poorly controlled, growth until 1977. The sector generated deficits which now
weigh heavily on the country's puolic finances. In 1977, the Government
undartook an extensive rehabilitation program which began by closing a dozen
state enterprises and by transferring certain activities to the private
sector. In addition, a new supervisory system vas put in place. A systematic
management analysis of all enterprises of a certain size is in progress which
will form the basis for a durable rehabilitation program and a clearer defini-
tion of their respective missions.
19.      The Go-rernment's policy has three components:
-   introduction of the necessary tools for the overall management of the
sector;
-   rationalization of the system of relations between the State and the
enterprises;
-   continued efforts to rehabilitate the principal enterprises in
financial difficulty.
20.      A clearer knowledge of the aggregated situation of the parapublic
sector, particularly the financial flows with the State and the banking
system, and the arrears of this sectcr, is indispensable for the Government in
defining economic policy and for the .3uccess of the ongoing financial stabili-
zation program. To this end, the Ministry of Economy and Finance has decided
to supplement the instruments for monitoring public enterprises currently in
use by a series of synoptic tables designed to be as useful to the Government
as to the enterprises themselves. These management information charts will
incorporate financial information that can be aggregated and that can serve as
a guide to the country's financial policy, and will include a series of man-
agement and productivity indicators. They will be prepared in a standard form
so as to make it possible to compare performance of the enterprises with de-
fined objectives. They will also enable the financial needs of parastatal
enterprises to be forecast and timely provision to be made in the Loi-
Programme and in Government budgets. This system will be introduced on an
experimental basis this year for enterprises in the transport sector, so that
it can be applied generally in 1984.
21.      The system of relations between the State and public enterprises is
in need of improvement. Specifically, there is a need to state clearly the
reciprocal duties and obligations of th: State and of the entities under its
supervision.



78-                           ANNEX V
Page 6
22.      Enterprises in the parastatal sector are classified into two distinct
categories. The first group, the "itablissements publics" (public agencies)
which are either administrative or industrial or commercial, are in effect
constituent parts of the administration, which carry out certain public
service functions and which obtain most of their resources from the national
budget. The creation of a separate juridical status, independent of that of
the State, reflects the aim of giving these establishments a greater degree of
autonomy and responsibility than that enjoyed by Government departments.
Nevertheless, since they are close to the public administration in their
goals, it is appropriate to apply to them the same general principles as are
applied under public finance procedures, but to ensure that their application
retains a degree of flexibility that is essential if these entities are to be
managed efficiently.
23.      The second group consists of "Societ6s d'Etat" (State companies) and
"sociftes d'6conomie mxutew (semi-public companies). Their organization and
management are based on the private law of business corporations, whether or
not they are subject to public service requirements. These companies, which
are all commercial in form, are responsible for promoting certain industrial
and commercial activities designed to support and  ccelerate the economic and
social development of the nation. Their activitie: involve the production
and/or marketing of goods and services; in particul&.-, they substitute for the
absence of private initiative, when necessary, but they aim to ensure that in
the longer term their activities will be taken over by the private sector.
24.      The Government has decided to re-examine, by December 31, 1983, the
roles, activities and action programs of certain public enterprises, parti-
cularly SATKACI and SODEFOR, and to reconsider their statutes and structures.
It will also take the necessary measures .to provide both the CAA and the
autonomous ports of Abidjan and San Pedro with statutes more appropriate to
their missions by June 30, 1984.
25.      It is also necessary to define clearly the missions, objectives and
responsibilit'ies of the enterprises as well as the reciprocal obligations of
the state. The Government plans to employ four different tools determined by
the type of activity and the economic and financial position of the
enterprises.
(i)  "Annual Action Programs", comparable to those already used for
certain agencies operating in rural areas, will be drawn up on a
standard basis and within a three-year framework for enterprises
which, like SODEPALM and SATMACI, have public service functions but
for which it is difficult to define quantitative productivity and
efficiency goals;
(ii) "Recovery Plans" for entities whose financial situation or internal
management situation is in need of improvement; the three most
important will be for SODESTUCRE, OPT, and SBETU;
(iii)  -Program Contracts" for companies that have both important commercial
activities, and public service requirements which are a drain on
public finances, although their management and internal control



- 79 -                            ANNEX V
Page 7
systems may be efficient or improving;  'Program contracts' should be
negotiated with SOTRA and CIDT;
(iv) "Management Performance Follow-ups" for enterprises in the non-
competitive sector that make only limited calls on public finances
and whose management is considered satisfactory. These vill be used
for the autoaomous ports, for SITRAM and for INTELCI.
26.      This new system will be introduced before December 31, 1983 for a
first group of enterprises which should include SATMACI, SODESUCRE, OPT, SOTRA
and INTELCI.
27.      The Government will seek to ensure compatibility between the legal
framework within which the necessary controls by the public authorities are to
be exercised, the nature of the activities carried out by the enterprises and
the requirements of effective management.
28.      Since 1980, the State has gradually strengthened its financial super-
vision of enterprises in the parastatal sector stressing in particular the
control of expenditures. In this regard, the Government has decided to imple-
ment a series of measures by December 31, 1983. These measures, which are
listed in detail in Section A of the Annex, are designed to avoid the risks of
excessive administrative rigidity, to strengthen the operational efficiency of
control procedures, to speed up the work of the supervisory boards and the
appointment of the Relegates of these boards as envisaged under the law, as
Well as to improve the use made of financial audits. These measures will be
supplemented by an examination of the whole system of procedures governing the
award of public contracts.
29.      Recovery programs will be implemiented for those enterprises in the
agricultural sector for which in-depth studies have already been completed.
Particular attention will be paid to the restructuring of SODESUCRE and the
rehabilitation of RAN. Diagnostic studies will also be made for SODEFEL, OPT,
SOTRA, SETU and SICOGI as well as specific studies of SITRAM and SOGEFIHA.
The Government has taken the necessary steps to ensure SIR's financial equili-
brium. The Government will take any measures that may become necessary as a
result of changes in the basic parameters (dollar exchange rate, price of
petroleum) to preserve this financial equilibrium and to do this from 1985
onwards without any transfer from the petroleum compensation funds.
AGRICULTURE
Introduction
30.      Development of the agricultural sector has been the foundation of the
Ivorian economy's growth and will continue to play an essential role in the
country's economic, social and financial future. The Government intends to
continue to give the highest priority to agriculture through an action program
which concentrates on three principal eLements:



-80 -                             AJNEX V
Page 8
(a)  definition and application of a coherent and incentive-oriented
price, subsidy and marketing policy;
(b) reform of the most important agricultural sector enterprises to make
them more effective and more profitable;
(c) definition and application of a rural development strategy aimed at
modernizing and diversifying agricultural production, and at prc-
moting food production in particular, with a view to attaininL food
self-sufficiency, in the longer run.
Price and Subsidy Policy
31.      Since the Government regards an incentive-oriented price and subsidy
system as the best means of optimizing the agricultural production structure,
national policy endeavors to reconcile a range of needs:
-   To assure the best balance among producer prices so that producers
will be persuaded to grow the crops that reflect the country's long-
term comparative advantage;
-   To cushion the impact of short-term fluctuations of world market
prices on producer prices, while ensuring that the agricultural
sector participates in the national savings effort;
-   To provide appropriate incentives for the production and marketing of
food crops and export crops;
-   To ensure that inputs are used rationally by establ±sahing prices for
them that are consistent with their actual cost, and by using sub-
sidies less as incentives to production but rather as a means of
encouraging producers to adopt more advanced technologies (for
example, cotton insecticides, and cocoa fermentation vats and tanks);
32.      In 1982, a general study on pricing, subsidies and other types of
assistance in the agriculturs! sector was completed. It gives an overall view
of the price structure at the endi of 1981, and could yield the elements of a
methodology for determining agricultural prices and 3ubsidies.
33.      It is apparent from the jovernment's survey that the structure or
agricultural pricea in Ivory Coast reflects the relative value of the various
products. Recent price decisions, as well as the measures contemplated by the
Government for the 1983/84 season, tend to counterbalance certain price dis-
tortions, for example the elimination of fertilizer subsidies. Details of
these measares will be found in Section B of the Annex.
Promotion of Food Production
34.      The Government is aware that the success of the food self-sufficiency
program depends as much on efforts to be made in research and production man-
agement aiming at better productivity as on a coherent and incentive-oriented
price and marketing policy. Both producer and consumer prices for rice are a
decisive factor in the policy to stimulate food production, mainly because of



-81-                              ANNEX V
Page 9
the marked price elasticity of supply and demand for rice. Based on the pre-
sent consumer price level, marketing of locally produced rice involves a sub-
sidy of about CFAF 3 billion, a sum which should not increase in the future.
In addition, the Government will adjust the market price of rice to the price
of imported -ice in CFA fru es so as to eliminate any subsidy on imported
rice.
35.      As regards paddy collection and rice milling, the Government took a
far-reaching decision in 1982 to place rice marketing and processing in pri-
vate hands and to give rice mills access to the finLncial resources (in the
form of seasonal credits) needed to cover their purchases from producers. The
immediate effect was to guarantee farmers regular payment for their crops, to
improve milling yields and to increase the volume collected (from 16,000
metric tons in 1982 to 40,000 in 1983 and an expected 60,000 in 1984). In
July 1984, the Government will evaluate the success of these new arrangements,
and will seek to make the necessary resources available to further improve
their effectiveness with a view to reducing the subsidy element in commercial
rice processing.
36.      As far as the marketing of other food products is concerned, the
Government is aware of the need to improve distribution channels and outlet
facilities, while keeping a more equitable balance among the interests of
producers, consumers and intermediaries.
37.      Studies undertaken by the Government in 1982 on the production and
marketing of maize and vegetables are now nearing completion, while a study on
groundnuts will begin shortly. More recently, the Government decided to
conduct a study to identify a strategy and to prepare a development program
for product marketing that would focus on:
-   assessing the sector's situation, in particular its human and
material resources;
-   drawing up short-, medium-, and long-term strategies that define the
roles and actions of the various ministries and other agencies
capable of bringing about improvements in the marketing of food
products;
-   defining an interim action program that would culminate in a
development project.
The results of this study will be available 1y mid-December 1983.
38.      The Government's intention to eliminate progressively the subsidy on
SIVENG fertilizers raises a corollary problem of what support and incentives
to give to that enterprise and to the agro-industries that use compound fer-
tilizers. Firstly, in the long term SIVENG will have to lose its domestic
monopoly and face competition from foreign producers. Secondly, because of the
increase in the price of compound fertilizers, it is likely that some users,
SODESUCRE for example, will opt for simple fertilizers, which are cheaper and
probably equally suited to their needs. SIVENG's domestic sales volume will
therefore probably decline, at least over the short term, and it will have to



ANNE V
- 82 -                             Page 10
be induced to orient itself toward the export market. An in-depth study of
the conditions under which this entity will be operating in its new economic
environment is tn begin in August 1983.
Reform of Agricultural Sector Enterprises
39.      As part of the First Structural Adjustment Loan, the Government
undertook to settle the arrears of three agriculture sector enterprises
(PALNINDUSTRIE, CIDT and SATNACI) as well as to conduct management audits of
seven sector enterprises (PALMINDUSTRIE, CIDT, SATNACI, SODESUCRE, SODEFOR,
SODEPRA and SIVENG), designed to improve their management, to reduce their
costs, and to redefine where necessary their objectives and the system
governing their relationships with their supervisory authorities.
40.      In the course of 1982, the Government succeeded in settling the
arrears of PALMINDUSTRIE, CIDT and SATNACI and committed itself to taking
:;rhatever measures might be necessary in the future to guarantee regular
financing and rational operations for these enterprises. By the end of 1983,
the Government will take whatever steps are required to maintain the financial
equilibrium of these three enterprises.
41.      The various management audits are nearing completion.  These audits
will give the Government a aolid basis for reform of these enterprises, a
subject to be discussed with the Bank at the appropriate time.
42.      PALMINDUSTRIE has been audited in considerable depth by the UNIPLANT
Group, with which a technical assistance contract was signed in early 1983.
Based on this audit, the Government has already taken a number of iaportant
decisions that should improve this entity' s operations and structure. Its
Statute as a State company has been confirmed. It is to take over product
marketing operations on October 1, 1983, functioning thereafter as a com-
mercial organization while still benefiting from a price stabilization system
for village production. In this regard, the Government recognizes that the
company will need adequate working capital.  The UNIPLANT audit, together with
the feasibility study of an oil-palm and coconut-palm replanting project
already under way, will serve as the basis for preparation of another oil-
palm/coconut-palm project.
43.      CIDT, which plays a key role both in development of the North and in
promotion of food crops, has been the subject of a number of studies to
improve its administrative, technical and financial organization and to reduce
its costs. Section B of the Annex gives details of the planned program of
reforms and other measures designed to improve its cost-effectiveness, and
which could result in greater financial autonomy for CIDT, depending on the
situation of the cotton account.
44.      SATMACI:  The Government is now in the process of redefining SATMACI's
objectives. This is expected to include a restructuring of the organization
aimed at improving the efficiency of its extension services and transferring
SATMACI's commercial activities to the private cector. The Government is now
analyzing the management audit of SATMACI that has just been concluded.  By
December 31, 1983, the Government and the Bank will agree on the principal



ANNEX V
- 83 -                              Page 11
components of the internal reform of SATMACI as well as on the timetable of
actions to be taken.
45.      SODESUCRE: The management audit of this State company is particu-
larly important, given the extent of the technical, financial, and admini-
strative difficulties Confronting it and the fact that it places a consider-
able burden on Ivorian public finances. Both the Government and the Bank are
monitoring the progress of this audit, which began in mid-January 1983, and
after the final report is expected to become available in June 1983, they will
make every effort to agree on a rehabilitation and recovery program. SODESUCRE
has already decided upon a series of measures to be implemented immediately,
one of them being a 7% cut-back in personnel before June 30, 1983 (See Section
B of the Annex).
46.      SODEFOR: The management audit of SODEFOR is nearing completion and
focuses on:
-   identifying the causes, both internal and external, of the administ-
rative, technical and fiiancial problems confronting the company;
-   formulating recommendations to improve SODEFOR's performance, speci-
fically by reducing its operating costs and allowing its component
units more autonomy" justified in view of their sustained and rapid
development;
-   improving protection of plantations from natural hazards;
-   assessing the system of relationship between SODEFOR and its two
supervisory ministries.
The results of the audit will be examined by the Government and the Bank in
August 1983.
47.      SODEPRA:  The audit of SODEPRA, which has begun, focuses on:
-   rectification of the financial statements of the enterprise, with an
accurate estimate of its assets and arrears;
-   definition of the objectives of the various production units
(ranches, commercial-scale complexes, commercial silos);
-   analysis of the internal organization of SODEPRA and its management,
and definition of a new organizational structure taking into account
the recommendations concerning the redirection of SODEPRA's objec-
tives.
The results of the audit will be examined by the Government and the Bank in
August 1983.
48.      MOTORAGRI:  The management audit of MOTORAGRI, which is already under
way, is designed to provide the Government with a basis for defining programs
of mechanized work within the framework of its policy of modernizing and



ANNEX V
- 84 -                             Page 12
mechanizing agriculture.  Starting with a critical analysis of Ivory Coast's
development ventures since 1977, the audit will seek to define valid tech-
nicaL, aconomic and social criteria for use in identifying appropriate action
programs. It will also redefine the role MOTORAGRI is to play in the execu-
tion of these programs, as well as its other activities and its system of
organization and financial management. The conclusions of the audit report
will be discussed with the Bank in August 1983.
49.      SODEFEL:  The Government also intends to undertake a management audit
of SODEFEL in the course of 1983.
Definition of a Rural Development Strategy
50.      In the Letter of Development Policy p epared in November 1981, in the
context of the First Structural Adjustment Loan, the Government mentioned the
importance of an agricultural development policy that would enable the  vory
Coast both to continue to grow within a changing world economic environment
and to expand its portfolio of economically justified agricultural projects.
51.      A particular effort was therefore made to strengthen the agencies
responsible for project planning and preparation. In 1981, the Government
created a new entity, the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP), within
the Ministry of Agriculture, it built up the Directorate of Programming,
Budget and Management Control (DPBCG) and the Agriculture Projects Design
Office (BETPA), both within the Ministry of Agriculture. In October 1982,
BETPA was converted into an EPIC with well-defined objectives. In 1982,
through the World Bank Technical Assistance Loan, eight experts were recruited
to supplement the staff of these entidies.
52.      Concurrently, in application of the policy of food self-sufficiency
and to strengthen the structure and organization of agronomic research, the
Government cr_ated the Institut des Savanes (IDESSA), as an EPIC, responsible
for improving the production systems of principal foodcrops, and the Ivorian
Centre for Technological Research (CIRT), as an EPA, responsible for the
application of technologies that are responsive to needs in the areas of
storage, conservation and processing of foodcrops. Through the Technical
Assistance Project, four experts have been recruited in 1983 and a program to
provide equipment and scientific materials has been initiated.
53.      An integrated work program put together by the various departments of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Secretariat of State for Agriculture, and the
Ministry of Education and Scientific Research, aims essentially at modernizing
the rural sector and at diversifying production in accordance with the country's
lorg term economic interests. The main elements in the program, which are
listed in Section B of the Annex, will be discussed with the Bank in September
1983 and reviewed regularly thereafter.
54.      These broad guiding principles have for the most part already been
given concrete form in the 1983 Investment Budget and the 1983-85 Loi-
Programme. They indicate that the Government:



ANNEX V
- 85 -                              Page 13
stopped expansion of cocoa and coffee plantations in order to
concentrate on coffee regeneration and on improving cocoa pro-
ductivity and quality;
is encouraging wider cultivation of rubber and replanting of oil-
palms and coconut-palms (both commercially and at the village level);
i3 emphasizing integrated development projects;
-   would favor eventual expansion of sugar, soybean and irrig&ted rice
production only if feasibility studies showed this to be economically
justified;
- envisages the continuation of cotton programs as long as they show
satisfactory returns.
55.      As a means of accelerating the modernization of agriculture, the
Government has conducted a pilot motorization project and is now evaluating
the results. MOTORAGRI's land-clearing methods and programs are also pre-
sently being reviewed within the context of the management audit. In addi-
tion, on instructions from the Government, ISNAR carried out a study designed
to: assess the links between farm research and extension work; produce a
master plan and prospective programs for agricultural research; and produce
an integrated research program on more intensive food production in the
savannah and forest zones, on foodstuff storage operations and on the con-
serving, processing and value-enhancement of food products. The Government
and the Bank are now working together to review the results of this study, as
the first step toward preparation of an integrated research project.
56.      The Government is aware that the definition of a dynamic rural devel-
opment strategy depends on a close and systematic coordination of the actions
taken by the various ministries responsible for the rural sector. It will,
therefore, endeavor to strengthen the various ad-hoc inter-ministerial com-
mittees presently invol-red and is considering regrouping them into one body, a
National Committee for frural Development.
INDUSTRIAL POLICY
57.      For the last two years the industrial sector has been through a
period of stagnation characterized by a very marked slowdown in the growth of
exports and a slackening of investment, after having experienced a period of
rapid and continuous expansion up to the end of the 1970s, during which its
share of GDP rose from 4% to 13%.
58.      While it is true that the world recession and the present unfavorable
circumstances of the Ivorian economy partly explain the slowdown in industrial
growth since 1980, the Government is aware that beyond the vagaries of
economic circumstances, resumption of sound and lasting growth of industrial
activity will depend on the solutions found to the structural problems
affecting Ivorian industry, i.e.:



ANNEX V
- 86 -                              Page 14
A.   Decline in the competitiveness of manufacturing enterprises
59.      Until the mid-1970s, Ivory Coast experienced an initial phase of
industrialization based on continued expansion of the domestic market and
development of the CEAO regional market. This remarkable growth period demon-
strated Ivory Coast'a ability to spur development of private enterprise in the
framework of a balanced expansion of the national economy. This growth took
place in the context of a relatively simple system of industrial incentives,
based on moderate tariff protection that was relatively uniform between the
different branches, and on the absence of a system of quantitative import
restrictions, which ensured the development of a competitive industrial
fabric.
60.      This situation first began to deteriorate following the revision of
the customs tariff in 1973, which brought in considerable distortions between
tne protection provided to the different branches of industry and, within
them, to the different degrees of product processing. Moreover, the acce-
leration of inflation after 1975, and the sharp jump in domestic prices fol-
lowing the coffee and cocoa boom of 1978 and the oil crisis of 1979, induced a
growing distortion between the price level in Ivory Coast and those of its
chief international trading partners and contributed to the erosion of the
competitiveness of Ivorian products in export markets. The Government res-
ponded to this situation by expanding the system of quantitive restrictions on
imports, leading to a rapid increase in the number of products subject to
import quotas, and to the setting up, in several branches, of prior authori-
zation commissions. However, this further accelerated the decline in the
competitiveness of Ivorian industry, because of the establishment of uneco-
nomic import-substituting industries. It also doubtless entailed a sizeable
loss of revenue for the Government, in the form of customs duties that would
have been collected if quotas were not in effect.
61.      A considerable structural a.justment effort will now be needed to
restore industry's competitiveness, both at home and in export markets,
without quantitatLve restrictions.
B.   Discrimination in the exrort incentive system
62.      The system of industrial incentives introduces a very marked discri-
mination between production incentives for the domestic market and for
exports. During the 1960e and 1970s, the rapid expansion of the domestic
market and of openings in the regional markets were sufficient to sczstain the
growth of the industrial sector. Now, the lack of an adequate value added
incentive system is restraining the expansion of the sector at a time when the
saturation of the local market and of the traditional regional merk--ts calls
for diversification into markets such as the EEC, where Ivory Coast Ls en-
titled to preferential treatment, especially since most enterprises have idle
production capacity. An in-depth reform of the export incentive system is
therefore urgently needed, to permit vigorous expansion of Ivorian exports of
manufactured goods.



ANNEX V
- 87 -                              Page 15
C. Low level of integration
63.      General processing predominates in Ivorian industry.  This is because
the present incentive system does not encourage inter-sector relations or
densification of production processes. In order to develop local production
of intermediate goods, a major reform of customs tariffs and domestic taxation
is needed, the chief aim of which will be to reduce the difference between the
protection for production of intermediate and finished products, and to offset
the negative effects of the tax-free imports allowed by the Investment Code
and the temporary import procedure in their present form.
D.   Weakness of the policy for promotion of local industry
64.      The inadequacy of the promotion of local industry arises chiefly from
the deficiencies of the institutions responsible for promotion, primarily as
regards providing technical and financial assistance to small and medium
enterprises. Implementation of an effective industrial promotion policy
therefore requires that dynamic institutions be established with clearly
defined goals and in which representatives of the Government and of the
private sector work closely together.
65.      Aware of the need to restore the dynamism and competitiveness of the
industrial sector within the framework of balanced national economic devel-
opment, the Government has decided on a major reorientation of its industrial
policy focusing on five principal elements:
(a)  REFORM OF THE SYSTEM OF EXPORT INCENTIVES
5S.      The Ivorian Government intends to set up a system of incentives for
etxpurts of manufactured goods that will comprise:
=   a system of subsidy on export value added for all manufactured
exports to countries outside the CEAO;
-   a preferential financing system for exports;
-   in the long term, a system of export insurance.
67.      The rate of the subsidy on export value added will be computed Bo as
to compensate exporters in full both for the average effective tariff protec-
tion given to sales on the domestic market and for the cumulative inflation
differential since 1975 between Ivory Coast and its main trading partners.
The system that is set up will also make it possible to reduce, and over the
long term remove, the incentive to import inputs that exists under the tem-
porary import procedure in its present form.
(b)  REFORM OF THE SYSTEM OF TARIFF AND NONTARIFF IMPORT PROTECTION
68.      The essential aims of this reform are to promote better densification
of the industrial fabric and to improve the sector's competitiveness.



ANNEX V
- 88 -                              Page 16
69.      The first part of the reform will consist of a revision of the cus-
toms tariff, in order to harmonize the effective tariff protection rates
applying to the different branches of industry and, within them, to the dif-
ferent levels of product processing.
70.      The second part will concern the quantitative restrictions on
imports. The ultimate aim of this reform will be the elimination of these
restrictions, whether quotas or prior authorization requirements, and their
replacement by an import surcharge that will be degressive over time. This
aim will be pursued in successive stages, in order to enable Ivorian industry
to adapt to the new policy.
(c) REVISION OF THE INVESTMENT CODE AND TAXATION
71.      The revision of the Investment Code will be aimed at encouraging the
development of new activities. It will include:
-   Reformulation of the measures provided for in the 1959 Code in order
to adapt them to the country's economic situation. In particular,
the automatic exemption from import duties on intermediate products
for priority enterprises will be eliminated, o as not to penalize
potential local manufacturers of such intermediate products.
-   Introduction of new measures designed to consolidate certain funda-
mental aspects of Ivory Coast's indu3trial policy:
-    Participation in national development by encouraging the
establishment of enterprises in the provinces;
-    Job creation;
-    Training within enterprises;
-    Export promotion.
-   Measures in favor of small and medium enterprises, which have not so
far benefited from the incentives included in the 1959 Code.
-   In addition to the measures taken for large-scale industries, small
and medium enterprises will benefit from specific advantages.
72.      The tax reforms will be designed to place industrial enterprises,
including small and medium enterprises, in a better competitive position.
(d)  REFORM OF THE INSTITUTIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR rROMOTING INDUSTRY
73.      The Government envisages setting up two agencies that will have the
autonomy and freedom of action n?eded to ensure the success of the industrial
promotion policy.



ANNEX V
- 89 -                             Page 17
74.      The first will deal essentially with promoting and providing tech-
nical assistance to small and medium enterprises; it will be based on an in-
depth reorganization of CAPEN, especially as regards its statutes and
staffing.
75.      The second will combine different funds (guarantee, participation,
subsidy, studies) and will provide the financial support essential for the
promotion of small and medium enterprises.
76.      The two agencies will have qualified personnel, strictly limited in
number to the needs and programs identified. Moreover, to ensure real coordi-
nation of their actions they will have a common Board made up of representa-
tives of the highest levels of Government, the banking sector and the indus-
trial sector.
(e) IDENTIFICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ADDITIONAL MEASURES TO
STRENGTHEN ENTERPRISES' EFFICIENCY
77.      The Government has decided to undertake a series of studies to define
measures that would raise factor productivity and the efficiency of industrial
operations. These studies will focus in particular on improvemen'.s that can
be made in social legisletion, for instance regarding training and pay policy,
and on the possibility of increasing the proportion of production-related
bonuses in wages. An effort will also be made to encourage technological
research applicable to the sector, particularly to small and medium
enterprises.
78.      As a result, the Government has decided to adopt the following action
program and schedule: before December 31, 1983, a first set of measures will
be put into effect in the framework of an interim program and detailed for-
mulation of a medium-term program will be carried out, with its first phase to
be implemented before September 30, 1984. Before the different rates men-
tioned below are applied, they will be reviewed by mutual agreement between
the Government and the Bank.
A. Interim Program
79.      The measures envisaged under the interim program are the following:
(a) Before September 30, 1983
1.   Adoption of the new Investment Code by the Council ,
Ministers. This Code will then be submitted to the NaLional
Assembly before December 31, 1983.
2.   Adoption by the Council of Ministers of the decrees reorganizing
CAPEN and establishing an agency for financial assistance to
small and medium enterprises.
3.   Establishment of a system allowing acceleration of value added
tax reimbursements to exporters.



ANNEX V
- 90 -                              Page IB
4.   Commissioning of a study on freight problems.
5.   Submission to UMOA of a dossier to enable Ivorian manufactured
exports to be eligible for the Preferential Discount Rate.
(b) Before December 31, 1983
1.   The Government will include in the draft 1984 Finance Law the
Pubsidy on export value added for the trntiles, wood processing,
fertilizer, and agro-industrial (except for products derived
from cocoa and coffee) sectors. These sectors represent 52% of
industrial value added.
2.   The Government will include in the draft 1984 Finance Law the
first phase of the global customs tariff reform concerned with
raising customs duties on intermediate goods in the textile,
chemicals and plastics, metalworking and mechanical engineering,
wood and agro-industrial sectors, as well as measures governing
application of the Investment Code in connection with elimi-
nating the exemption of these goods from import duty. These
sectors represent 60% of industrial value added.
3.   Revision of the Ordinary Law taxation system including:
-    extension of the new-plant system from five to seven years
in the regions and its application to small and medium
industrial enterprises;
-    improvement of the system concerning reinvestment of
profits;
-    correction of the distortions brought about by certain VAT
exemptions;
-    extension of VAT deductibility to certain goods;
-    introduction of an optional degressive amortization system;
-    reform of profit taxation and of the FNI for small and
medium enterprises.
4.   Recruitment of personnel, devising of procedures and evaluation
of technical and financial assistance needs for the two agencies
for promoting small and medium enterprises.
5.   Establishment in DGAI of an appraisal unit and of a promotion
unit for industrial projects; the terms of reference for these
units will be drawn up jointly by the Government and the World
Bank.
6.   Starting of investment opportvnity btudis. including at the
small and medium enterprise level, and of the work of the



ANNEX V
- 91 -                             Page 19
Commission on Factor Productivity, for which the terms of
reference vill be drawn up jointly by the Government and the
World Bank.
(C) Before March 31, 1984
1.   Replacement of quantitative restrictions on i' orts by an import
surcharge for an initial list of products, at -east those bene-
fiting from an export subsidy, and representing 40% of the local
value added produced under quantitative restrictions. The
import surcharge will be degressive over time and may not in any
event be maintained for longer than five years.
(d)  Before June 30, 1984
t.   Presentation to the National Assembly of the draft Law con-
cerning establishment o. a generalized export value added
subsidy system for the entire manufacturing sector.
B. Y-edium-Term Program
80.      In view of the general aims of the reform program and the importance
of these reforms for the future of industrialization in Ivory Coast, it is
essential that each phase of the medium-term program be prepared on the basis
of a detailed analysis of the impact of the reforms on existing and new
industries. In addition, the later phases of the program will have to take
into account the experience gained during the earlier phases.
81.      A series of studies is therefore presently being carried out by the
Ministry of Planning and Industry, the Ministry of Commerce, and the Ministry
Of Economy and Finance, to assess the impact of the medium-ternm reforms on
industrial production, exports, employment and public finances.
al.      The first phase of the medium-term program will be drawn up by mutual
agreement between the Government and the Bank before March 31, 1984, and will
be initiated before September 30, 1984. The following therefore only repre-
sents an indicative schedule of the steps to be taken to accomplish the aims
of the program.
1.   Extension of the value added export subsidy
-    extension to a second list so as to cover cumulatively 70% of
industrial value added before September 30, 1984;
-    to a third list to cover 85% of industrial value added berore
March 31. 1985;
- - generalization of the system to cover the entire manufacturing
sector before September 30, 1985.



ANI  V
- 92-                               Page 20
2. Extension of the replacement of quantitative restrictions by import
surcharges
-    extension to a second list of products so as to cover at least
60% of the value added produced under quantitative restrictions
before December 31, 1984;
-    to a third list of products so as to cover 80% of the value
adde.i produced under quantitative restrictions before June 30,
1985;
-    to a fourth list of products, covering 90% of the value added
produced under quantitative restrictions before December 31,
1985;
-    total elimination of quantitative restrictions before
December 31, 1986.
3.   General ration of the customs tariff reform
-    extension to a second set of branches, so as to cover 70% of
industrial value added before December 31, 1984;
-    general application of the tariff reform before June 30, 1985.
HOUSING POLICY
83.      Until 1980, the State played a predominant role in the development
and financing of the housing sector. The private sector's role was essentially
limited to the production of high standard housing in the modern sector for
the most affluent segments of the population, while the informal sector met
the greater part of the country'- housing needs. During this period the urban
population grew at a rapid rate of about 8.5% per annum, which currently means
an increase of approximately 263,000 people per year. The combined effects of
this rapid urbanization and the difficulties of the financial situation make a
profound revision of housing policy imperative. The needs of the urban popu-
lation far exceed in effect the resources that the State can make available to
the public sector for housing programs. It is therefore necessary to adapt
housing policy to this nev set of circumstances and, in particular, to define
the role of the State and to redirect its financial involvement, making it
both more effective and more selective. Starting in 1984, this will produce
the conditions needed for a gradua'l recovery of the housing sector that is
financially sound and therefore lasting, and which will have to ,ely more on
savings and private initiative than in the past, without however fuarther
burdening public finances or putting excessive pressure on credit distri-
bution.



- 93                               ANNEX V
Page 21
84.      This policy will be organized along the following lines:
-    redirection of the public investment effort toward develcpment of
serviced land;
-    rehabilitation of the system of housing finance, with a view to
improving credit transformation and mobilization of savings;
-    reform of sector public enterprises;
-    reduction of the sector's public finance burden.
(1) Shift in the role of the public authorities
85.      Public investment efforts will be redirected toward the production
of large numbers of developed sites with infrastructure levels adapted to the
income levels of different social groups, with greater priority than before
being given to lower-income households. With this in mind, development of
large areas containing plots with minimal infrastructure that can be progres-
sively upgraded will be stressed. Plots intended for middle or higher-income
categories will be sold at market prices, and this would permit the introduc-
tion of a cross-subsidization mechanism to subsidize plots sold directly to
less advantaged categories. A preliminary land development program will be
defined along these lines by the end of July 1983.
(2) Restructuring of the financing system
56.     tMechanisms for financial intermediation and for mobilizing private
and institutional savings for low-income housing will be improved in order to
eaable the prirate sector to play a more important part in the development of
low-income housing programs.
87.      The restructuring of financing mechanisms aims to widen the range of
credit offered and, in particular, to develop credit facilities compatible
with development of access to ownership and a savings and loan system. This
action will be complemented by a review of the tax policy and, if possible,
supplemented by the development of lines of credit for the purchase of con-
struction materials and by the subsequent development of a secondary mortgage
market. The gradual elimination of the present system of subsidies for ser-
viced lots and housing rentals whilst improving the financial system will
enable a very selective interest subsidization scheme to be introduced, if
this is necessary.
88.      The Government will undertake a study on reorganizing the housing
credit system to enable it to fulfill the following roles:
-    participating in the collection of rrivate and institutional savings
and directing these savings toward low-income housing;
-    establishing credit conditions for low-income housing;



- 94 -                              ANNEX V
Page 22
-    directing the use of local bank resources to the low-income housing
sector and adapting the repayment schemes to the particular charac-
teristics of the sector;
-    assuring the conformity of planned actlons and credit provision with
the sector objective3 defined by the Government.
The committee responsiole for preparing and administering this low-income
housing credit system wIll be made up of representatives of the main public
and private organizations working in the sector. It will be constituted by
September 30, 1983, in order that the system can become operational by
January 1, 1984.
89.      The Managing Committee of the FSH will be in place by August 31,
1983. The FSH will have three essential functions: maIntaining the financial
equilibrium of financing schemes for low-income housing; supplsmenting the
refinancing needs of lending agencies through mobilizing additional resources;
and providing public enterprises if necessary with equity so that they can
maintain their working capital and their cash position at a level that Is com-
patible with their activities.
(3) Reform of public enterprises in the sector
90.      This reform concerns SOGEFIHA, SICOGI, and SETU.  It will entail
reform of their internal organization and their financial rehabilitation,
which will be achieved in particular through rationalizing their pricing
policies.
91.      The Government will gradually lift the controls on SICOGI's and
SOGEFIHA's rents.  In order to maintain its housing stock, the Government will
gradually pass on the operating and maintenance costs of SOGEFIHA's and
SICOGI's rental properties to the tenants, and will take the first steps
before March 31, 1984. Application of this policy, which will affect all
tenants, will be completed no later than December 31, 1984.
92.      Liberalization of SICOGI and SOGEFIHA rents, which will be based on
an indexation formula, will be initiated before March 31, 1984, and applied
generally by June 30, 1985. With effect from January 1, 1984, rents on new
housing units constructed and on units where there is a change of tenant will
incorporate the cost of the land and its development together with all the
finance charges of the holding company.
93.      Parallel with this, in order to reconstitute their cash positions and
to promote access to property ownership, public housing agencies will gra-
dually put some of their property on the market, estimated at between 5,000 to
6,000 housing units, the modalities and timetable of which will be worked out
by January 1, 1984.
94.      SETU is the Government's principal agent for the purchase of land and
the development of sites both in Abidjan and in secondary cities. The re-
direction of its activities along the lines of the new investment policy as
defined above will be accompanied by an internal reorganization that will,



- 95 -ANEV
Page 23
among other things, enable SETU to gain greater control over the cost of each
of its operations, to base its investment decisions on prior market studies,
and to reconsider its sales policy.
95.      SETU's short term financlal rehabilitation is a precondition for
starting any new operations. Measures crucial to the rapid assignment of
serviced lots not yet allocated and to the recovery of amounts owed by
delinquent site beneficiaries will be swiftly implemented. Finally, the State
will clear its accounts with SETU. These measures should substantially
improve the company's financial situation before the end of 1963.
96.      The company's commercial policy will be redefined along three main
lines: (a) expansion of its range of products; (b) sale at market prices of
new or repossessed plots intented for middle and higher-income categories, the
resulting margins enabling the company to increase its working capital, gra-
dually to build up land reserves, and if necessary to introduce a cross-
subsidy scheme; (c) making the company responsible for the allocation of
plots, with the allocation committee making the final decisions exclusively
from a list previously drawn up by SETU on the basis of the creditworthiness
of the candidates. The in-depth study of SETU's technical, financial and
commercial manasement will be completed by the end of September 1983. It will
provide the framework for specifying in detail the stages of the rehabilita-
tion program of its activities and its internal reorganization, its possible
technical assistance needs, as well as the procedures for transforming it into
a semi-public company. In addition, the Government is studying the possible
creation of a Caisse des Collectivites Locales (Local Community Fund) that
would seek to develop SETU's role in secondary cities. This study will be
completed by June 30, 1984.
97.      SOGEFIRA's financial disequilibrium, tying up almost CYAF 7 billion
in public funds per year to service its debts, is seriously affecting the
activities of the construction sector as a whole. Preparation of a recovery
program, which will save about CPAF 1 bilLion in public subsidies from the
first year, is nearing completion. It has three principal elements: the gra-
dual disposal of some of its rental property, sale of a first group of 1,300
units to be undertaken by December 31, 1983; the progressive lifting of rent
controls throughl differential increases based on the categories of housing;
and reduction of the company's operating costs.  A detailed study to determine
SOGEFIIA's future role is to be completed by January 1, 1984.
98.      SICOGI will essentially play a key role in two critical sectors
simultaneously. The first concerns the population with an income level bet-
ween one and two times the legal minimum wage. Although it is desirable to
offer these households, which account for approximately one third of the urban
population, something better than simple serviced plots, it is nevertheless
financially impossible to offer them fully equipped housing units without
introducing a subsidy scheme that would be tunsastainable for public finances.
SICOGI will produce, or will help the private sector to produce, core housing
units to be built on plots developed to a rudimentary level by SETU. Tnese
activities will be supplemented by a selE-help assistance program that will
ensure the gradual upgrading of these units and help speed up site occupation.



- 96 -                             AINEX V
Page 24
99.      The second concerns the sale and the leasing of fully developed hous-
ing units inteaded for households with an income between two and four timeq
the legal minimum wage.  The aim in effect is to prove to the private sector
that building housing units for this segment of the population is financially
viable and technically feasible.  Thia will lead SICOGI to test and dissemi-
nate architectural and technological innovations designed to cut construction
costs. Implementation of this new policy will be based on the results of a
dfEtailed study to be completed before the end of 1983. The study will include
an examination of SICOGI's tariff policy with a view to bringing it into line
with market conditions, so as to enable it to initiate new programs.
100.          The budgets and financial requirements of the three compaLies will
reflect the new objectives assigned to them, starting with their next fiscal
year.
(4) Reduction of the burden of the housing sector on public finances
101.          The policy directions described above will make it possible to reduce
the sector s burden on public finances. The basic reform of the housing
policy for civil servants, accoapanied by a series of complementary measures
now being studied, will also lead to further progress in the same direction.
102.          The Government has decided to make radical changes in the housing
policy for civil servants. The important measures decided on at the end of
last year will yield savings of close tc CFAF 20 billion from the first year.
These measures basically entail a sharp reduction in the number of people
entitled to housing, the introduction of small allowances for those formerly
entitled to such benefits, the discontinuation of the replacement of furni-
ture, and the renegotiation of private leases. In addition, maintenance costs
will be shared by owners and occupants, and those entitled to benefit from
State-owned housing will have to pay for their maintenance.
103.          For the sake of equity it is necessary to review the situation
regarding housing for the staff of public establishments, State companies and
semi-public companies. where there is majority public participation, and to
draw up detailed rules to be followed. This will be done before December 31,
1983, and the rules will take effect at the start of the following fiscal year
for the companies concerned.
104.    The same concern for equity has prompted the Government to study the
procedures for revaluing the taxable amount of benefits in kind in the form of
free housing. The Department of Taxation will prepare the necessary measures
to be incladed in the next Finance Law. It will also ensure that real estate
income is more accurately reported by individuals in their annual tax returns.
105.     The burden on puolic finances will also be eased by an improvement in
land tax receipts, which have not kept pace with the growth in the country's
housing assets. In order to strengthen the financial position of municipali-
ties and within the broad context of preparing, in the longer term, a com-
puterized land reg!stry, a simplified fiscal cadastral survey system will
initially be established. It will start with the preparation of simplified
cadastral surveys for four secondary cities by March 31, 1984.



- 97 -                                ANNEX V
Page 25
106.     Finally, with the aim of having greater control over all the factors
affecting the cost and effectiveness of a national housing policy, a program
to develop companies in the construction, buildilng materials and public works
sector will be introduced, on the basis of an in-depth study, by December 31,
1983. This program will include training for site managers and artisans, a
review of regulations, and also assistance to small and medium enterprises.
This last component will be carried out in conjunction with CAPEN.
Abdoulaye Kone
The M(inister of Economy and Finance
Abidjan, May 31, 1983



ANNEX V
- 98 -                            Page 26
ANNEX
A.      MEANGEMENT OF THE PARASTATAL SECTOR
Detailed listing of measures pertaining to supervision of
enterprises in the parastatal sector
Measures                                                                D
Appointment of deputy budgetary inspectors                   July 31, 1983
Determination of provisions pertaining
to modalities for the appeal procedure to
the Ministry of the Economy and Finance in
the event of refusal of authorization by the
budgetary inspector                                          September 30, 1983
Instructions regarding procedures to be
followed for the preparation and use of audit
reports                                                      October 31, 1983
Appointment of members of all the management
and supervisory boards of the State companies
(SODEs) and the consultative management
commissions of public establishments                         October 31, 1983
Preparation of the first phase of a training
program for officials responsible for the
management and supervision of public enterprises             October 31, 1983
Harmonization of statutes of parastatal
enterprises with their new classification                    December 31, 1983
Final closing of the accounts of tLe EPN
and SODEs for fiscal 1982                                    December 31, 19B3
Appointment of delegates of the supervisory
boards of the SODEs and study of provisions
to be implemented for the semi-public
companies (SEMs)                                             December 31, 1983
Determination of provisions pertaining to
modalities for the right of petition
(requisition) for directors of the EPN                       December 31, 1983
Re-examination of procedures for awarding
public contracts                                             March 31, 1984
The Director General of Finances is responsible for coordinating the
implementation of these measures.



ANNEX V
- 99 -                            Page 27
B.       AGRICULTURE
I.       Price and Subsidy Policy
1.       The Government decided at the beginning of 1983 that farmers will pay
for cotton fertilizers on the basis of the price ratified by the Minister of
Commerce (CFAF 48 in 1983) for compound phosphate (NPK) and on the basis of
the price of urea on world markets (CFAF 86 in 1983), and that producer prices
of cotton will be raised at the same time to CFAF 100 for quality A and to
CFAF 90 for quality B.
2.       The Government will specify before November 30, 1983 the modalities
for progressively eliminating over a period of three years the subsidy on
fertilizers produced by SIVENG. This provision does not affect the equili-
brium subsidy provided for in the SIVENG Agreement.
3.       At the beginning of 1983, the Government decided to eliminate the
subsidy to small rubber planters, through application of a pricing formula
based on the export price of rubber less processing and marketing costs.
4.       Other decisions were also made concerning the selling prices of
agricultural products:
(a) In 1982, the CFAF 75/kg rebate on cotton fiber sold to domestic
manufacturers was eliminated;
(b) In early 1983, prices for palm oil and seed cotton sold to domestic
mills and factories were raised.
5.       As far as the 1983/84 season is concerned, the Government will in-
crease producer prices for cocoa and coffee.
6.       Subject to the availability of necessary external resources, the
Gcvernment will finance the pruning program alre'ady in place to enable farmers
to reconstitute their plantations.
7.       The Government has also decided to study the technical and financial
means appropriate for improving the quality of cocoa.  This study will include
an analysis of the comparative costs and benefits of on the one hand intro-
ducing a quality premium and on the other of continuing with the present
subsidies for cocoa fermentation vats and tanks.
8.       The Go-ernment has confirmed that the subsidy on rice and maize seed
part in 1982 should not be conside=ed definitive, but simply an incentive
measure designed to launch the food self-sufficiency program.
9.       As far as copra is concerned, the Government still expects to in-
crease the small-planter price, based on the results of the analyses now under
way.
10.      The various measures will give rise to annual consultations between
Ivory Coast and the World Bank; the first round is scheduled for September
1983.



ANNEX V
- 100 -                            Page °8
II.      REFORM OF AGRICULTURE SECTOR ENTERPRISES
1.       CIDT:  It has been decided:
(a)  To carry out in 1983 a detailed analysis of the struct-re of actual
costs by activity (cotton, food crops, mechanization, etc.);
(b)  Prior to December 31, 1983, to renegotiate the cooperation agreements
with CFDT, in order to update that agency's role, with the Government
undertaking that the new mode of participation by CFDT will not imply
immediate transfer of funds abroad;
(c)  Prior to December 31, 1983, to make a detailed study of possible
savings in; overhead costs, extension services, marketing,
transport, and cotton ginning.
(d)  To draw up a detailed schedule for introduction of the measures
recommended; the conclusions will make it possible to adjust the
1983/84 budget accordingly.
Ce) By December 31, 1983, at the latest, to reach final agreement on the
CIDT decentralization program.
2.       In the light of the findings of the above studies and depending on
the equilibrium of the cotton account, the Government also expects to review
the current pricing system (bareme). Under the new system, the relationship
between the State and CIDT would be redefined in the context of a program
contract calling specifically for:
-    allocation of the revenue from sales of cotton fiber and seed cotton
firstly to financing cotton acti7ities and secondly to cotton price
stabilization;
-    a system for establishing producer prices that takes into account
world cotton prices.
These reforms will be discussed with the Bank prior to June 30, 1984.
3.       SODESUCRE:  The Government has already decided to reduce SODESUCRE's
personnel by 7%. The Government and the Bank will subsequently agree on
an action program for its recovery and for implementation of the initial
recommendations made in the management audit, before December 31, 1983.



ANNEX V
- 101 -                            Page 29
III.     DEFINITION OF A RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
1.       The strategy will consist of the following elements:
a.   redirection of rural development, involving an integrated approach to
actions at the farm level;
b.   promotion of agricultural settlement and modernization by defining a
policy for use of inputs, seed multiplication, mechanization and
credit;
c.   improvement of communications between agronomic research and
extension services;
d.   definition of a coherent and incentive-oriented price and subsidy
policy;
e.   improvements in the marketing, storage, transport, and processing of
agricultural products, particularly foodstuffs;
f.   diversification of production based on the country's long-term
comparative advantage;
g.   greater equilibrium among the various regions of the country;
h.   better rural statistics and better country-wide and regional modeling
in the rinral sector.
This program will be the subject of regular consultations with the Bank.



ANNEX VI
Pale I of 1
USi OF IN? RESOURCUS
tin millions of SDRa)
Gros. Credit Drawing.
Coupensatory cad         Oil       RTg. Stand-by.    Trust Yund                                                  Not Credit   Undrawn Balance of
Buffer Stank Drawing.   Yao11:ty        and EeFe         Borrowing       Total/        Repayzent.      Charge.    Drawing.       Agreed Stand-by or EPF3/
1973
1974                               11.2                                            11.2                            0.07         11.2
1975                                                                                                               0.8
1976            26.0               10.4                                            36.4            24.2            1.8          12.2
1977                                                                                               10.0            1.4        -10.0
!.978                                                             21.6             21.6            24.1            0.9          -2.5
1979                                                                                                               0.03
1980                                                              29.1             29.1                             -           29.1
1981           114.0                              176.72/          0.2           290.9                             4.2        290.9
1982                                              115.4                           115.4                           26.8         115.4
1983                                              153.9                           157.9                           46.0         153.9             153.9
1984                                              124.04/                         124.0            27.1           48.4          96.3
19B5                                              114.04/                        114.0             97.7           'S.7          16.3
1986                                               28.54/                          28.5           107.4           60.3         -78.9
1987                                                                                              105.5           54.5       -105.5
1    Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by dravings, %tF dravings, oil facility dravinge, comyenaatory
facility drawings, and buffer stock dravings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
i/   In addition purchase in 1981 of 5DR 28.5 million under the first credlt tranche.
2/ Undrawn Oalance of 17F agreement with statement of remaining period of agreement.
Al   Projected, assuing further N1F assistance amounting to 100 percent of quota In both 1984 and 1985.



IBRD 15773
f,.;ATCu
W
BP
0     oor t
T7
lntwnutionof a
00
One    vpfeserh IAM.
pw
Cyolcr---.
4-F t.
AU 1.1 T ANO Al
J1 t-,
Ak A L
UPPIN
VOLW
Gui
G   If
I V 0 1 T
of                                                           A ri A ill",c    ill       c c . 5 T
n e a                                                        ocf
0 to 40 a a m
f-






