OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2332 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
betueen
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        \    , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2332 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  av(4, 1983, between
REPUBLICOF THE IVORY COAST (hereinafter calad the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 31,
1983 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of that program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in the financing of urgent imports to be made during the
execution of such program; and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of such program to provide assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modificatiop thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"The   term  Project   means  the   imports   and  other
activities that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
1'0uest;
(b) "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, of the
Ivory Coast;
(c) "CFAF" and "CFA francs" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(d) "CIDT" means Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Dfveloppement
des Textiles;
(e) "Letter   of  Development   Policy"  means  the   letter
mentioned in the first WHEREAS clause of the Preamble to this
Agreement;
(f) "Loi-Programme"   means   the   law   establishing   the
Borrower's three-year roll-over public investment program;
(g) "PALMINDUSTRIE" means Societ' Palmindustrie;
(h) "SATMACI" means Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la
Modernisation Agricole de la C^te d'Ivoire;
(i) "SETU" means Soci&tg d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains;
(j) "SICOGI" means Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et de
Gestion Immobiliere;
(k) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity   Indexes  for   the   Standard   Intern&tional  Trade
Classification, Revised,   Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev.2 (1975);
(1)   "SODESUCRE" means Societi pour le D&veloppement des
Plantationsde Cannes a Sucre, l'Industrialisation et Commerciali-
sation du Sucre; and
(m) "SOGEFIHA" means Societe de Gestion      Financiere de
1'Habitat.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or


﻿-3-
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred   fifty   million   seven   hundred   thousand   dollars
($250,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services described in
such Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to six hundred
twenty-five   thousand   one    hundred   eighty-seven   dollars
($625,187). The fee shall be payable in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.


﻿-4-
(b)' For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means     the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" o: Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) CAA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall entrust CAA with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to


﻿-5-
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal appli-
cations shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to
apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) at the CAA and shall, upon each withdrawal from
the Loan Account, deposit in said account in accordance with its
usual financial procedures the equivalent in CFA francs of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account (such
equivalent to be determined as of the respective date of such
withdrawal). The amounts so deposited in the Project Account
shall be used to support the Borrower's program for structural
adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and to
contribute to the financial requirements of the public enter-
prises included in that program.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such action
including the expeditious granting of import licenses as shall be
necessary or convenient to facilitate the timely importation of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provi-
sion will be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazaris incident.
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Upon the award of any contract for goods cost-
ing the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of e     .her party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the program for structural
adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and the
measures specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.06. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
BCEAO or any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, including
the separate records and accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section.


﻿-7-
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate records
and accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loa,, Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; (ii) retaiv. jntil one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year, and the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section for each month audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing  principles   consistently  applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year so audited, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii) without limitation to the foregoing, furnish to the Bank,
not later than two months after each month so audited, a separate
opinion by said auditors in respect of the separate records and
accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided;   and (iv) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.08. Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
the Preamble of this Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of SuspenEion
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿-8-
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the program for
structural adjustment or a significant part of the program for
structural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 6)cL:oe [b (-              , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designaeed as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box V 125
Abidjan
Republic of the Ivory Coast
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINIFIN                        MINIFIN 3747
Abidjan                        Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By/,5/
Authorizdd Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/   (    Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The reasonable cost of importation of any goods into the
territory of the Borrower may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, except that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups:
Group     Sub-group         Description of Items
112         -              Alcoholic beverages
121         -              Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122         -              Tobacco, manufactured
667         -              Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
668         -              Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)


﻿- 11 -
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $15,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(g) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(h) expenditures in excess of aggregate amounts equivalent
to $50,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs, respec-
tively; and
(i) expenditures for which disbursement is requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures in
excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,000, for
goods supplied   under  contracts  costing  less  than  $500,000
equivalent.
2.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of $125,700,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement, with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the program for structural
adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
particular that the measures described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 12 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 1988
Through   March 15, 2000                    9,640,000
On September 15, 2000                            9,700,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Cbnditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the following forms:
(i) a   notice  in  the  United  Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 16 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for sub-
paragraph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the
successful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the
following:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of
goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts and purchase orders for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each or for commonly
traded commodities shall be awarded on the basis of standard
commercial and other procurement practices applicable to the
purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract or purchase order for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such purchase, two conformed
copies of the contract, together with such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request and, in the case of contracts
awarded through international competitive bidding, the analysis
of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed.
4.   With respect to each contract or purchase order for goods
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as
the   Bank  may   reasonably  request   to  support   withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract or purchase order.
5.   The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was not


﻿- 17 -
consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Second Tranche Release
List of measures to be taken in accordance with paragraph 2
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
1.   Approval of the Ivorian Government of a financial program
for 1984 to reduce public sector and balance of payment deficits,
especially by limiting the growth of domestic credit and exterior
borrowing in line with the repayment capacity of the borrowers.
2.   Approval of the Ivorian Government of a public investment
program for 1984 within the framework of the Loi-Programme for
the years 1984-1986, consistent with the Letter of Development
Policy.
3.   Approval of the Ivorian Government of budgets for 1984 for
CIDT,   SATMACI,  PALMINDUSTRIE,  SODESUCRE,   SETU,  SICOGI   and
SOGEFIHA reflecting, in the case of the latter four enterprises,
programs for reform of their finances and management.
4.   Implementation of new measures to facilitate investment in
the Ivory Coast, consistent with paragraph 71 of the Letter of
Development Policy.
5.   Replacement of quantitative restrictions on the import of a
list of products, to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Bank, by declining import surcharges on such products, during a
period of not more than five years.
6.   (a) Adoption of systems providing for export incentives for
manufactured goods and customs tariffs reforms for intermediate
goods to be imported, both consistent with paragraphs 66-69 of
the Letter of Development Policy.
(b) Application of such systems to a list of goods to be
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original ia the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this IAN     day ofT4Lt, 198&.
FOR SECRETARY


