Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5451-4
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR CECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
O'N A
PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PERAL)
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
ro
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
JANUARY 14, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Austral (A$)
The Austral floats freely against other currencies; on December 12,
1990, the exchange rate was A$5,000 = US$1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
AA        Aerolineas Argentinas                   Argentine Airlines
AGP       Asociaci6n General de Puertos            The National Ports
System
AyE       Agua y Energia Electrica                 The National Water and
Power Company
BANADE    Banco Nacional de Desarrollo            National Development
Bank
BCRA      Banco Central de la Rep6blica           Central Bank of
Argentina                               Argentina
BUN       Banco Ripotecario Nacional              National Mortgage Bank
BONEX     Bonos Externos                          External Bonds
DEP       Direcci6n de Empresas P1blicas          Directorate of Public
Enterprises
ELMA      Empresa de Lineas Maritimas             National Shipping Co.
ENTel     Empresa Nacional de                     National Telephone
Telecomunicaciones                      Company
FA        Ferrocarriles Argentinos                Argentine Railways
GdE       Gas del Estado                          National Gas Company
HIDRONOR  Hidroelectrica                           The Power Generating
Norpatag6nica                           Company of Argentina
ME        Ministerio de Economia                  Ministry of Economy
MOSP      Ministerio de Obras y                   Ministry of Public
Servicios Plablicos                     Works and Services
OSN       Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion           The National Sanitation
Company
PE        Empresas Pdblicas                        Public Enterprise
PEREL     Prestamo para Ejecuci6n de la           Public Enterprise
Reforma de las Empresas Plablicas       Reform Execution Loan
QRs       Restricciones Cuantitativas             Quantitative
Restrictions
SEGBA     Servicios Electricos del                The Buenos Aires
Gran Buenos Aires                       Power Company
SIGEP     Sindicatura General de                  External Auditor of
Empresas P(iblicas                      Public Enterprises
SOMISA    Sociedad Mixta Sider6rgica Argentina   Steel Company of
Argentina
TPLII     Segundo Prestamo de Politica            Second Trade Policy
Arancelaria                             Loan
VAT       Impuesto al Valor Agregado              Value Added Tax
YCF       Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales       State Coal Company
YPF       Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales        State Petroleum Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Program Summary .................................
I.    THE ECONOMY .........................................                 1
A. Background  ......................................                 1
B. Stabilization Programs of the Menem Government ...2
C. Macroeconomic Outlook ............................                 5
D. Ongoing Structural Reforms ...................                     6
E. External Debt Management .........................                 9
II.  THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ...................          .....        11
A. The Growth of Public Enterprises .....             ............    11
B. Supervisory Framework .............................                12
C. The Current PE Structure and Legal Framework ......                13
D. PE Employment  ...................................                 14
E. PE Financial Performance .........................                 16
III. THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM ................                  20
A. Objectives and Strategy ..........................                 20
B. The New PE Framework .............................                 21
C. Reforms of Major Sectors ........... .. ............               23
(i)     Telecommunications  ......................              23
(ii)   Railways   ...............................              24
(iii)  Hydrocarbon Sector ......................                26
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN ....... ...............                              31
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement .....             ..............    31
B. Scope of the Proposed Loan .......................                 31
C. The Proposed Loan ................................                 31
D. Project Implementation ...........................                 32
E. Loan Conditions ..................................                 33
F. Benefits and Risks ...............................                 35
V.   COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS ........ ..                 37
A. Previous Bank Experience .........................                 37
B. Bank Strategy ....................................                 37
C. IPC Lending Program ..............................                 38
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal and post-appraisal
missions which visited Argentina in June and OctnIC- 1990 respectively.
The principal mission members included Messrs. ¾. Scl-rer, S. Alber, A.
Dammert, C. Khelil, L. Thompson and B. Welleniu6.
This document has a restricted itstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex      I.  Argentina - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Annex     II.  Argentina - Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex    ILI.  Argentina - Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Annex     IV.  Principal Legal Regimes Governing State Enterprises
Annex      V.  Institutional Responsibility/Organization Chart
Annex     VI.  Sector Profile - Telecommunications
Annex    VII.  Sector Profile - Railways
Annex   VIII.  Sector Profile - Hydrocarbons
Annex     IX.  Policy Conditions
Annex      X.  Letter of Development Policy
MAPS  -  IBRD 22713 Oil and Gas Industry Locations
22800 Railways
22799 Telecommunications



- i -
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower and
Guarantor:         Argentine Republic
Beneficiary:       Argentine Republic
Amount:            US$300 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Obiectives:        The proposed loan, part of a program of Bank support to
the Argentine Government's objectives of stabilizing its
economy and resuming growth, will assist in: (i) the
privatization/restructuring of public enterprises (PEs)
in the telecommunications, railways, and hydrocarbons
sectors, and (ii) the better management of other PEs.
Benefits and
Risks:             Significant growth benefits are expected:  first, from
the productivity gains from transforming a major segment
of the economy (both public and private) from a state of
control and protection to one of competition; second,
from reductions in public sector deficits; and third,
from the increased investment by the private sector to
increase petroleum production and improve service quality
in rail transport and telecommunications service.
In the Argentine context the risk cannot be low. Vested
interests may attempt to derail the reform process, the
political leadership may change direction, agreed
contracts may be reversed, and managers in the central
government as well as in the PEs may not develop the
required institutional capacity. Progress already made
(the privatization of ENTel, oil and rail concessions,
etc.), the irreversibility of some key actions and the
strong public commitment of President Menem lessen the
risk of failure.   In macroeconomic terms,  short-term
adverse movements may cause turbulence and, without
timely Bank support, weaken policymakers'capacity to
continue with the reform program.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursement'      The loan would be disbursed against eligible imports in
one tranche of US$150 million, and two floating tranches
of US$75 million apiece. A proposed US$23 million Public
Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (PEREL) would accompany
the   proposed   loan   and   finance   strategies   for
privatization/restructuring of PEs and institutional
development to advance the reform program supported by
this Loan.
The first tranche would be available for disbursement
following   loan  effectiveness.       The   two   later,
independent, floating tranches would support specific
sectoral actions. The Hydrocarbon and Railway Tranches
would be made available upon fulfillment of overall
nframework"  conditions  and  of  specific  conditions
affecting   the   respective   sectors.   In   addition,
disbursements would be conditioned on satisfactory
evidence of progress in the Government's staff reduction
program.   Outstanding PPF funds would be refunded on
effectiveness.
Retroactive
Financing:         Because  of  the  many  measures  taken  before  Board
presentation, US$60 million would be made available for
retroactive financing of expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1990, about 4 1/2 months prior to expected
loan signing.
Schedule of                                         ----USS million---
Disbursements:
Bank FY                         FY91   FY92   FY93
Annual                          150      75     75
Cumulative                      150    225    300
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.    The  companion  PEREL  is  presented  in  the
Memorandum of the President of even date.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFOIRM
1.01      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$300 million to support a
program of reform of public enterprises. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. It
would be accompanied by a Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (PEREL) for the
equivalent of US$23 million to finance strategies for privatization and
restructuring of PEs and institutional development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. BackRround
1.02      Argentina has long been rich in both human capital and natural
resources. During the first decades of the 20th century, it was counted among
the 'developed countries", with a standard of living on a par with a number of
Western European nations.  The primary engine of Argentine development was a
large, agricultural-based export sector, selling principally to the European
market.
1.03      With the onset of the Great Depression, foreign demand and prices for
agricultural commodities declined sharply, reducing Argentine export earnings by
half between 1928 and 1933. The ensuing crisis in employment, production, and
the balance of payments triggered a reformulation of the country's development
strategy, which gradually became inward-looking, rather than export-oriented.
The strategy included heavy protection of domestic industry, policy-induced
transfers of resources from the agricultural to the urban industrial and service
sectors, and extensive public sector contrQls over resource allocation and income
distribution, either directly through newly-created public enterprises or through
a complex series of policy interventions in product and factor markets.
1.04      This   inward-looking   strategy   succeeded   in   promoting   rapid
industrialization.      However,   after  easy  domestic  import  substitution
possibilities were exhausted toward the end of the 1940s, balance of payments
crises increased in frequency, and economic growth became more erratic.
Exportable farm surpluses were no longer large enough to generate the foreign
exchange needed to pay for the imported inputs required by industry. At the same
time, increased local and national government spending and the growing role of
public enterprises were key factors in the generation of burgeoning public sector
deficits. Rigid price, credit, and interest rate controls resulted in repression
of the financial system, capital flight, and intermittent shortages of goods and
investmelut finance. The foundations for sustained economic growth were slowly
being undermined.
1.05      The state-led model had begun to exhaust itself and the long-run
growth path of the economy turned sharply downward after the mid-1970s.
Argentina, the most affluent Latin American country in 1962, fell to fourth place



2
in 1989, after Brazil, Uruguay and Venezuela. Investment, traditionally at 20-23
percent of GDP, began a sustained fall to an 11-13 percent level in the late
1980s. While investmert by the public sector has stabilized at low levels only
slightly less than those of the early 1970s, the private sector has recove.ed to
only 50-60 percent of those earlier levels. The investment rates of the economy
are now so 'low that they may not permit adequate replacement of depreciating
capital stock.
1.06      The  savings  performance  of  the  economy  also  reflects  serious
structural problems. National savings rates have fallen ftom about 20 percent
of GDP in the early 1970s to under 10 percent. Public savings fell steadily from
1970 to 1975, and then again from 1977 to 1982, with only partial recovery
thereafter.  Public savings before interest payments had, by 1987, recovered
virtually to the same level as those of 1970-72, about 5 percent of GDP, but
these were still too low to cover the full interest payment obligation of the
Government. This underscores both the difficulty imposed upon Argentina's public
sector because of the heavy weight of its external debt as well as its lack of
sustained progress in control'ling subsidies, transfers, and public enterprise
inefficiencies. Private sector savings are at little more than half their early
1970s levels.  Economic conditions have led Argentines to s"ve vast amounts
abroad; aside from understating private savings in national accounts, these
resources abroad are unavailable for job-creating investment in Argentina.
1.07      The adjustment process which depressed national savings and investment
in the 1980s entailed two related problems:   that of adjusting to abruptly
increasing external transfers which diverted domestic savings into foreign factor
payments, and the struggle to control severe fiscal imbalances.   The fiscal
imbalance was attributable in part to the internal transfer problem associated
with suddenly increasing debt service, but was also a reflection of the
inadequate control over public enterprises and finances that had plagued the
economy in the 1970s and indeed worsened in the 19809. As that decade wore on,
macroeconomic instability--manifest in endemic inflation--and policy-induced
distortions became the main impediments to the recovery of savings and
investment.
B. Stabilization Programs of The Menem Government
1.08      The July 1989 Stabilization Attempt. Upon taking office in July 1989,
the Menem administration announced a program relying on the nominal anchor of a
fixed exchange rate.   The stabilization program,  supported by the IMP from
November 1989 onwards, gave more weight to fiscal performance and to structural
reforms than the earlier stabilization attempts of the Alfonsin years, the Plan
Austral and the Plan Primavera. The new Government was able to pass legislation
authorizing the sale of public enterprise assets, the suspension of most
subsidies, and limitat4ons on Central Bank credit to the public sector. Later,
it succeeded in passing a majer tax reform which extended the VAT, first to
nearly all goods and then to services. Nonetheless, the near-term effects of
this progress were insufficient to earn the confidence of wary financial markets
that had experienced several failed programs and just weathered a major
hyperinflation. Even though the nonfinancial public sector accounts improved
steadily through the fourth quarter of 1989, the primary surplus was insufficient



3
to transfer resources to the Central Bank adequate to cover its large nominal
interest bill on domestic debt, much less its external debt service. Eventually,
the high interest rates required to support the fixed exchange rate drove up the
interest bill of the Central Bank--and the money creation necessary to pay it--
and increased the borrowing requirement of the Central Bank necessary to
sterilize the endogenous monetary expansion.   As markets moved against the
austral in early December and interest rates skyrocketed, the program finally
exploded.
1.09      On December 15,  the economic team resigned and the new Economy
Minister--making virtue of necessity--changed the stabilization strategy in favor
of market liberalization. The new team floated the exchange rate and removed
nearly all remaining price controls.   The exchange rate devalued sharply as
demand for austral-denominated assets plummeted further in response to fears of
inflation and rumors of dollarization. Over the New Year weekend, to forestall
imminent hyperinflation, the authorities announced the forced conversion of
virtually all domestic commercial bank time deposits, worth about US$3.5 billion,
and the bulk of the Central Bank and Treasury's outstanding debt that the
deposits financed, into 10-year dollar-denominated External Bonds (BONEX). While
this penalized savers, the measure directly halved the potential liquid stock of
financial assets  and stopped the incipient hyperinflation.   Moreover,  it
eliminated the destabilizing quasi-fiscal deficit of the Central Bank.
1.10      However,  the Government failed to complement these measures with
fiscal adjustments that would reduce the public sector demand for credit; the
Central Bank also allowed monetary creation.  At the beginning of February,
unexpected price adjustments for public enterprises triggered renewed fears of
high inflation. The ensuing crash in money demand from its already low level
immediately spun the economy into hyperinflation in February.
The March Proaram
1.11      DesiRn. In early March, the authorities responded with a new program
predicated upon structural and emergency fiscal initiatives (Decree 435). Its
main structural elements were an announced reduction in public sector employment
through early retirement, elimination of overtime, and a sharp retrenchment of
the Housing and Industrial Development Banks.  Other expenditure and revenue
measures included a sixty-day suspension of payments due on public sector
contracts and an extension of the partial suspension of the regional industrial
subsidy program. The Central Bank was specifically prohibited from providing
direct or indirect financing of any kind to the public sector, including the
public enterprises; Central Bank rediscounts were henceforth required to be
authorized in advance by the Economy Minister; and most rediscount credit for
liquidity purposes owed to the Central Bank was repaid by September.
1.12      Decree  435,  coupled  with  tightened  monetary  policy  throughout
February, rapidly improved public confidence.   Capital flowed in to rebuild
financial balances and the austral began to revalue in spite of Central Bank
purchases of foreign exchange. Monthly inflation rates fell from 70-80 percent
in December-March to a 10-15 percent range in April-June.   The Government
renegotiated its program with the IMF, which had been interrupted in December by



4
the reemergence of hyperinflation, and the IMF Board approved resumption of the
stand-by program on May 25.  The program aimed to produce an average public
sector surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP over the last three quarters of 1990, and
so reach an overall deficit of 0.4 percent for the calendar year 1990.  This
would enable the public sector to meet its external interest obligations to
preferred creditors and to ir.crease reserves.
1.13      Performance  to  Date.    The  government  achieved  an  impressive
imiprovement  in the  fiscal accounts  in the second quarter of 1990.   The
nonfinancial public sector achieved a primary surplus of 3.3 percent of GDP, up
from 2.3 percent in the first quarter. This reflected a positive Tanzi effect,
stronger tax collections, strong export tax proceeds, deferral of payments to
suppliers, and considerable public sector wage compression. Performance in the
second half of 1990 slipped, however, because wages and pensions, at historially
low levels in the second quarter, were raised, real public prices were allowed
to fall slightly, and progress on revenue improvements was slow because of the
recession and continued weakness in tax administration. Social Security pension
payments, well below the legal obligations of the government, were also raised.
The second semester primary surplus dropped to 0.5 percent of GDP. in response,
the government undertook some fiscal measures in the fourth quarter--price
increases in the public enterprises (especially petroleum), the extension of the
VAT to services, and an increase in the VAT to 15.6 percent. Despite the fiscal
overrun, inflation, after hovering in the 10-15 percent range since April, fell
to the 4 to 6 percent monthly range in the fourth quarter.
1.14      The IMF is monitoring macro developments  closely.   The end-June
targets of the standby program were met except for a very small deviation from
the target for the cash deficit of the non-financial public sector. The target
for the combined public sector deficit was met and the targets for the
international reserves and net domestic assets were surpassed by wide margins.
While the external objectives of the program were also met as of end September,
there were deviations from the fiscal performance criteria. On November 28, 1990
the IMF granted a waiver for the nonobservance of fiscal performance criteria for
end-September and released the purchase that would have been based on performance
through June 1990. The purchase that would have become available on the basis
of end-September performance was dropped.
1.15      An IMF staff mission is scheduled to visit Buenos Aires in late
January to review developments in the last quarter of 1990 and to begin
discussions on an economic program for 1991.  Early indications are that the
performance in respect of net international reserves for the end of 1990 was
satisfactory. Full data on fiscal performance in the last quarter of 1990 will
not be available until approximately mid-February 1991, but partial information
points to the possibility of deviations in respect of some of the fiscal
objectives. Developments through the end of 1990 will be taken into account in
the discussions that the IMF mission will have with the authorities on the
economic program for 1991. The retorms in the public enterprise sector that the
proposed loan would support are viewed by the 1MF staff as key elements in the
achievement of a lasting improvement in the public finances, and the economic
program that is tc be discussed assumes that disbursements would commence in
1991.



5
1.16      Although the Government was unable to meet all the ambitious fiscal
targets of the program, it did achieve a primary surplus of about 2 percent of
GDP in 1990. This represents an improvement of nearly 3 percentage points of GDP
compared to the 1987-89 average. In addition, the structural elements of the
program have been successful. The Government has been able to sell assets or
concessions in telecommunications, roads, airlines, hydrocarbon deposits, and
railways and has drastically improved its credibility.  Government plans and
announcements to divest further major assets, reduce the size of the public work
force, and undertake major tax reforms are not only believed, investors are
beginning to take action consistent with these plans. Perhaps as important, the
asset sales and concessions so far have produced about US$600 million in cash for
the Government, and reduced its external, commercial debt by over US$7 billion.
C. Macroeconomic Outlook
1.17      Argentina's near term macroeconomic situation remains delicate.  The
tenuous fiscal position, the small financial base, the continued volatility of
expectations, and the weakness of monetary instruments imply that inflation is
unstable. To prevent a resurgence of inflation, fiscal policy will have to be
tightened. Substantial capital inflows, together with the large trade surplus,
have appreciated the austral over 40 percent in real terms since March despite
substantial Central Bank purchases of dollars to depress the rate.  Although
relative prices thus have turned against exports, the exchange rate appreciation
is likely to be reversed once there is a slowdown in capital inflows.
1.18      Output is likely to remain depressed, however, until the private
sector begins to undertake new expenditures for investments. This will occur as
the private sector becomes fully convinced that the anti-inflation and structural
adjustment programs are working, and the fiscal accounts are sustainably in
balance. Investment expenditures in newly privatized activities--particularly
energy and telecommunications--are  expected  to lead the recovery.   These
expenditures should eventually reactivate import demand, which would assist the
movement toward a realignment of relative prices. The progressive replacement
of export taxes with more efficient taxes would also help to shift relative
prices in favor of export production.
;.19      A  strong  performance  in  public  sector  accounts,  therefore,  is
essential to the Government's strategy of orchestrating a recovery through an
eventual turn around in investment and import demand. If such a performance is
not forthcoming, the adjustment of relative prices may occur in a less orderly
manner. The fiscal problem is to convert the basis of the primary surplus from
emergency measures to sustainable,  longer-term policies.   These latter will
require increasing revenues by replacing inefficient taxes with efficient and
sustainable revenues, and reducing expenditures in accordance with a clearly
defined focus on core public sector responsibilities, including the elimination
and privatization of nonessential activities. Several structural reforms have
been enacted which will support this transition: the 1988 coparticipation law
which regularized revenue sharing between the federal and provincial level, the
1989 tax reform, the elimination of the quasi-fiscal deficit, the privatizations,
and hydrocarbon deregulation.



6
1.20      Deficit reduction predicated upon these sustainable structural reforms
thus is central to any medium-term scenario of sustained growth.  The public
sector has reduced its deficit significantly in 1990 and must virtually eliminate
it in 1991. This involves raising the primary surplus from about 2 percent of
GDP in 1990 to over 3 percent for 1991; the Government must mobilize a primary
surplus of about 2 percent to service preferred domestic and foreigni creditors
pluis another I percent to pay amortization on domestic bonds. Given the vital
importance of the public sector to Argentina's stabilization and economic
recovery, the IMF and the Bank have concentrated much of their efforts there.
(See Part V).
1.21      A sustainable fiscal position and lower inflation would permit some
recuperation of domestic savings and, in turn, a recovery of investment and
growth.  Gross national savings--led by the public sector during the initial
phase--would have to increase from the extremely low rate of 8.8 percent of GDP
in 1990 to nearly 14 percent in 1995.   This would permit payment of some
additional debt ser' ice to commercial banks, in addition to servicing the debt
to preferred creditors, as well as increases in investment sufficient to fuel a
recovery of output beginning in the second semester of 1991, with growth at an
annual rate of about 3 percent. The main sources of growth would be domestic
investment demand and exports--both agricultural and industrial--as well as
industrial production for efficient import-substitution.   The private sector
would have to be a leading force during this period, since the public sector
posture would be far from expansionary.
1.22      The current account deficit on the balance of payments would increase
as the economv recovered in 1991 and 1992, and then gradually drop to about
US$1.8 billion in 1995. This implies a net financing requirement of about US$1.6
billion annually, which would come from a combination of refinancing interest
with the commercial banks andlor debt reduction through privatizations, perhaps
with an eventual Brady operation.
D.  Ongoing Structural Reforms
1.23      In contrast to previous stabilization programs, the present one has
emphasized structural reforms, thus, improving its chances for success. Within
these structural reforms, public enterprise reform is discussed in Part III.
Public Expenditure
1.24      While the Alfonsin Government (1983-1989) reduced non-financial public
sector expenditure (including public enterprise expenditure) by nine percentage
points of GDP since 1983, revenues fell even faster. Moreover, a large part of
the expenditure reduction since 1983 came at the expense of essential
in-irastructure investment and maintenance ane depressed wages which have proven
easier to reduce than public employment and subsidy programs. To relieve this
pressure, the Menem Government is undertaking further reforms to boost revenues
by improving the tax system and increasing the efficiency of expenditures.



7
1.25      The  Government  has  already  taken  important  steps  to  reduce
overstaffing and create a better organized, more efficient system of public
administration. Ministries are being reorganized. The March 4 measures included
elimination of all 56 Secretaries of State within the ministries and the
reduction of the 112 Sub-secretaries to 32; obligatory retirement for workers who
have reached retirement age; and, for workers with two years or less remaining
until the retirement date, the option of retiring with full pay until that date.
More important, in September, the Government adopted a major administrative
reform program that would reduce employment in the federal government by about
20 percent over 18 months.   It would also reverse trends towards  salary
compression.
Revenues and Taxes
1.26      The Government extended the VAT to virtually all merchandise beginning
in February 1990, and to services not already covered as of November 1, 1990.
The Government is albo continuing efforts to improve tax administration.  The
most immediate tasks are to establish effective controls on the largest 20,000
VAT contributors and to verify industrial promotion beneficiaries. Since early
March the tax administration has closed some 200 firms for tax violations under
a new, stiffer tax penal code; it hopes to collect significant overdue tax
liabilities from 15,000 taxpayers. In July 1990, the Government announced that
it will partially privatize the import valuation function in the hope of
increasing customs revenues, and that it plans to introduce a computerized
customs system in 1991 in an effort to increase efficiency and reduce errors and
corruption.
1.27      An  area  of  particular  importance  is  the  regional  "industrial
promotion' subsidy. The use of tax incentives for investments in 'strategic"
industries   (steel,   petrochemicals,   pulp  and  paper,   cement)   and  in
"underdeveloped" regions (Tierra del Fuego and northern provinces) proliferated
during the 1970s.   Between 1984 and 1988, total expenditures for industrial
promotion doubled as a share of GDP, to about 3 percent.  The March 4 decree
stopped the approval of benefits for new projects. To reduce the fiscal costs
of the "acquired rights" under previously approved projects, the Menem Government
suspended 50 percent of the benefits and began to audit all firms receiving
benefits. Permanent suspension of about half the claimants to acquired rights
is expected by March 1991. This could reduce the total fiscal costs to less than
1 percent of GDP.
Financial System
1.28      Argentine policymakers have been committed to financial liberalization
since the late 1970s, but have repeatedly interrupted liberalization efforts
because of fiscal needs.  The build-up of the Central Bank's debt and its
rollover at ever-increasing interest rates threw the Central Bank into distress,
one of the causes of the December 1990 relapse into hyperinflation. The drastic
step of forcibly converting commercial bank deposits--and hence the Central
Bank's obligations to the commercial banks--into long-term external bonds (BONEX)
had a high cost in that it undermined the confidence of savers in the financial



8
system,  although it did eliminate the Central Bank's distress problem.   A
complementary change in Central Bank operations was adopted in early March. The
Central Bank was proscribed from providing direct or indirect financing of any
kind to the public sector.  The authorities are now working on a fundamental
reform of the monetary authority. The Central Bank would become functiona'
independent, not only through a revision of its Charter to make its direct.
independent of ministerial instruction, but also through a clearing of its
balance sheet and recapitalization. A program of reorganization to upgrade its
staff would follow. The bank superintendency would be strengthened so that it
can provide meaningful supervision. A new deposit insurance institution is to
be established, removing this function from the Central Bank. Moreover, as a
consequence of years of instability, many private banks have developed problems
of asset quality, capitalization, and inefficiency in operations, and have
sharply curtailed lending to productive activities. The authorities intend to
address these problems once they complete the essential reform of the public
financial system.
1.29      The publicly-owned housing and development banks, long subject to
political influence and dependent on government financial support, are undergoing
major restructuring.  Most branches have been closed and staff was reduced by
half. Studips are under way to test the feasibility of their conversion into
Psecond-tier" banks with a large part of their operations going through retail
institution". Further, with Bank assistance, consultants' studies are underway
to determine the best means of restructuring the largest public commercial bank,
the Banco de la Naci6n. The authorities are also studying how best to deal with
the banks owned by provincial governments, many of which have debts to the
Central Bank, are owed large amounts by their governments, and have problem-
ridden portfolios of private credit.
Trade Regime
1.30      Before 1987, Argentina exported mostly commodities and imported almost
totally non-competing intermediate and capital goods. The trade regime reflected
an extreme overall anti-export bias; the domestic price ratio between exportables
and importables was about oO percent below international price ratios. There was
also a strong product-by-product discrimination from quantitative restrictions
(QRs) (about 50 percent by domestic production coverage), wide bands of import
tariffs (0-115 percent) and export duties (0-70 percent), as well as specific
prohibitions or subsidies.   The growth inhibiting effect of the regime was
apparent by the early 1970s, wher. the long-term trend of total factor
productivity growth in Argentina turned negative.   A first attempt at trade
reform, however, fell victim to the collapse of the 1979-81 stabilization
program.   Since mid-1987,  the Alfonsin and the Menem Administrations have
conducted an impressive trade reform program, despite a succession of periods of
runaway inflation and disinflation programs, and with only a partial reversal in
mid-1989.   The reform was sequenced so as to allow an early export supply
response to counter possible adverse balance of payments implications.   The
Government first extended free trade status to exporters, reducing the level and
coverage of export taxes and establishing general regimes of temporary admission,
duty drawbacks and indirect tax reimbursement, and phasing out specific export
subsidies. It introduced a one-stop-window process for export authorization and



9
removed QRs on a significant number of intermediates used in the production of
exportables.   These measures played an important role in 1989 in raising
industrial exports by more than 35 percent in constant dollars. After October
1988, the Government began opening the economy to import competition. QRs were
reduced to seven percent by domestic production coverage; the ad valorem tariff
band was narrowed to 10-24 percent, with an average rate of about 18 percent;'
and the production coverage of industrial export taxes was reduced to 30 percent.
E. External Debt ManaRement
1.31      Aside from transfers (in particular to the provinces and for social
security), the single largest category of public expenditure is interest accrued
on external debt, which amounts to more than one-fourth of expenditures of the
nonfinancial public  sector.   The public interest burden amounts to nearly
8 percent of GDP.  Argentina's external debt was approximately US$62 billion
before recent privatizations, about 85 percent of GDP.   Approximately US$38
billion is commercial bank debt, US$6 billion of which is in short-term trade
lines and another US$6 billion represents arrears. Although the Government has
continued to service its preferred creditors and commercial trade lines,
Argentina suspended regular payment on term obligations to commercial banks in
April 1988, and had accumulated arrears over US$6 billion by June 1990.
1.32      The Government's medium-term objective is to regularize relations with
the commercial banks on the basis of debt reduction. Because of the inability
of Argentina to service its stock of debt (much less the arrears) and the
reluctance of the commercial banks to make up-front concessions, formal
regularization is possible only in steps.  To this end, authorities resumed
partial payment to the commercial banks in June 1990 (US$60 million of about
US$250 million due per month) and have had several subsequent meetings with
commercial banks (mainly on debt conversions associated with privatizations).
Second, the Government has nearly completed reductions of its external debt
burden by about US$7 billion through debt-equity conversions associated with
privatization of ENTel and the national airline in 1990; this, together with
another US$3 billion in debt swaps of debtors to official banks, represents more
than 25 percent of commercial term debt.
1.33      The process of debt reduction through conversion has now become
central to Argentina's normalizing relationships with its commercial creditors
and establishing a sustainable noninflationary fiscal position. Although the
banks have been unwilling to consider a Brady operation without a track record
of payments, they have exhibited a strong disposition to swap paper for assets
at a considerable discount; the Government could readily reduce its debt burden
further because it still has a large pool of assets for disposal, particularly
in energy and land owned by the railways. Therefore, the short-run strategy is
to make payments at such levels as stabilization permits, and continue to pursue
There was some increase in the production coverage of specific tariffs
(to 5.5 percent in late 1989), although even these levels have in
general been reduced to the equivalent of a 50 percent ad valorem
rate.



10
aggressive debt reduction through privatizations. By end-1991, the level of debt
may be low enough and a track record sufficiently well established to consider
a Brady Plan operation for the remaining portion.
PART II - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. The Growth oD Public Enterprises
2.01      While  public  enterprises  in  Argentina  do  not  account  for  a
di.sproportionate share of the economy as compared with other Latin American
countries, their inefficiencies and heavy financial losses have had a profound
impact on the overall economy. Furthermore, during the past 40 years, PEs have
been faced with great uncertainty in the direction of Government policies--from
nationalization, creation and growth to a reduction of the public sector.  A
brief summary of the growth of the PE sector in Argentina shows how it developed
during two major cycles.
2.02.           First, from the mid 1940s into the 1960s, was the expansion of
the state through nationalization and creation of large public monopolies to
provide basic infrastructure in support of industrialization. Most of the PEs
in the early period were the result of nationalizations, including foreign
assets, and the creation of new public enterprises. For example in 1946, the
government bought Union Telefonica (formerly ITT) and consolidated it under
Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ENTel); between 1947-49, the Government
bought the railway system from British interests.   Furthermore,  different
governments also nationalized other assets, such as the electricity firm,
Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA) and a number of bankrupt
private firms to save employment in the economy. In addition, the gove.nment
created new enterprises in the public sector as part of its shift to achieve
rapid industrialization. The major enterprises under this second group are, for
example, Gas del Estado (GdE), Agua y Energia Electrica, SOMISA (the steel
company), Aerolineas Argentinas and a number of enterprises in the defense
production sector.2
2.03.           The second cycle consisted of attempts by various governments to
reduce and reform the public enterprise sector. During the Presidency of Arturo
Frondizi (1958-62), economic programs were directed towards reversing the
nationalization policies and the growth of the public sector and the
liberalization of foreign investment regulations. During this period, Argentina
implemented the first series of privatizations; for example, the holding
companies under the Direccion Nacional de Industrias del Estado were sold to the
private sector. Again, the Military Government in the late 1970s, faced with
lower growth rates (2.4 percent compared with 3.8 percent annual average from
1971-75), continued to deepen the privatization process to all PEs that were
previously in the private sector; and introduced changes in economic policies
related specifically with PE employment and tax issues.
2    The only major exception was Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF),
which was established in the early 1920s.



11
2.04.          A  total  of  about  120  enterprises  were  privatized  and/or
liquidated during this period with an estimated savings of about US$100 million
in 1975 to the national treasury.   Furthermore, the government implemented
alternative forms of privatization in a number of diverse sectors.  The most
important example of this program was witnessed in the railways, where grain
traders were encouraged to lease stock in lieu of closing down certain lines.
As a result, employment levels in the 13 largest enterprises declined by 42
percent between 1976-82. This decline in employment was mainly in the railways
(reduction from 156,000 to 95,000) and the oil sectors (reductions from 51,000
to 32,000). The second feature of the Military Government's reform program was
the elimination of PE tax exemptions. In addition, the reform program made an
effort to increase the ex-post monitoring effort of PE finances by establishing
the Sindicatura de Empresas Publicas (SIGEP) which continues to be responsible
for financial control and audit of PEs.  These reforms and modest efforts at
privatization did not help lower the size of the public sector deficit.
2.05.          Although the Alfonsin Government initiated a number of reform
programs (including some minor privatizations), it is the Menem Government that
has taken the decisive role in the implementation of the PE reform program.
B. Supervisory Framework
2.06.          The  supervisory  framework  for  PEs  in  Argentina  has  been
constantly evolving, with no clearly defined organizational and functional
responsibilities among the various government agencies and the management of the
publ'c enterprises. Historically, prior to the Menem Government, most federal
PEs were under the control of two principal "Technical Ministries#--the
Ministries of Public Works and Services (MOSP) and Defense.  MOSP controlled the
most important block of PEs (roughly 90 percent of the revenues); while the
Ministry of Defense oversaw the second block (roughly 7 percent of the revenues).
During the latter years of the Alfonsin Government, MOSP created a "holding
company' under the Direccion de Empresas Publicas (DEP) to manage PEs financially
under their control. Doubting its effectiveness, the government then dissolved
DEP. Outside of the technical ministries' direct controls, a number of other
government organizations were involved in enterprise decision making and
controls; for example annual budgets were approved by the Ministry of Economy,
the Legal and Technical Secretariats of the Presidency,  and SIGEP.   The
multiplicity of government agencies created duplication of efforts; some went
beyond their original stipulated functions, becoming deeply involved in the day-
to-day management of PEs.  This has caused disruptions, a lack of effective
control, and unclear lines of decision-making among responsible Ministries.
2.07.          In September 1990, the Ministry of Economy issued a decree that
centralized the financial/economic management of PEs. The Sub-Secretariat of
Public Enterprises within the Ministry of Economy now supervises 25 enterprises
previously under the direction of the Ministries of Public Works and Defense.
An organization chart is attached as Annex V.  The new Sub-Secretariat will
assume responsibilities for overseeing the budget allocation and monitoring
progress and will be involved in the planning of the privatization of PEs. The
management information systems for monitoring PE financial performance has been
initiated with Bank assistance (Loan 2712-AR, Public Sector Management). The



12
Technical Ministries, especially MOSP, will continue to be responsible for
sectoral policies and the implementation of privatization programs. To assist
the Ministries to achieve their objectives, the Government has temporarily
suspended the role of the Board of Directors and substituted them with a single
chief executive called an "Interventor". These "Interventores" (Trustees), who
are similar to restructuring executives, are responsible for managing the
transition of key strategic enterprises prior to their restructuring/
privatizations.
C. The Current PE Structure and Legal Framework
2.08.          As of July 1990, the total number of PEs in Argentina were 230
enterprises with about 29 percent (67) in the Federal Government and the
remainder under the ownership of Provincial (62 percent) and Municipal
Authorities. These enterprises are mainly concentrated in three major sectors:
(a) Hydrocarbons and Energy (principally PEs such as YPF, Gas del Estado, YCF,
SEGBA, Agua y Energia Electrica and Hidronor); (b) Transport and Communications
(principally Ferrocarriles Argentinos, Aerolineas Argentinas, Empresas de Lineas
Maritimas, Asociaci6n General de Puertos, ENTel and Empresa Nacional de Correos
y Telegrafos); and (c) Industrial and Services Sector (principally in the
petrochemical and steel sectors).
2.09.          Several different and complex legal regimes govern the ownership,
management and legal framework of public enterprises. The four enterprises that
are the focus of the loan fall under two different legal regimes--(a) Empresas
del Estado (Ferrocarriles and ENTel); and (b) Sociedades del Estado (YPF and
GdE). In the first case, PEs established under this legal framework are governed
by special Acts of Congress and are wholly owned by the State.  Second, PEs
established under Sociedades del Estado are companies regulated by the law of
state companies (1974). The principal provision of the law of state companies
is that they must have a wholly government ownership of their stock, which may
be divided or sold among different government entities (local governments, for
example). However, the law prohibits private capital and the transformation of
the entity into a joint venture (public and private).
2.10.          The  structures  governing  PEs have  imposed  constraints  and
barriers on the "commercialization" process.  Three legal areas have affected PE
performance: (a) the selection and composition of the Board of Directors are
generally Government appointees; (b) enterprises cannot be declared bankrupt
unless executed through an administrative liquidator; deficits are automatically
financed through the treasury; and (c) in the case of joint ventures (including
minority shareholdings), the government has the right to veto Board decisions
through the government's appointment of the president. A brief summary of the
differences in the various legal regimes governing PEs in Argentina is attached
as Annex IV.
2.11.          Figure 2.1 is a breakdown of the total number and legal framework
for PEs in Argentina:



13
Figure 2.1:
ARGENTINA -- COMPOSITION OF PEs
(AS OF JULY 1990)
OTl4EPS 3 5%    .,    .--  lMa,S 4
UjNC3PAL  57 - --       I.XTA   I
........        ~~~~ESTADO    7
SOCO ESTAI0 9
NATIONAL 29 *%      MAIDRITARIA 18
PROVIN 817%                             DEC ORG 22
NO.OF ENTERPRISES LEGAL STRUCTURE
FIEL STUDY (vn ublished)
D. PE Emplovment
2.12.          Total public sector employment in Argentina during the last two
decades has increased substantially. Employment in the public sector in December
1970 was about 1.4 million as compared with about 1.9 million in December 1987,
an increase of 33 percent over the period. This increase was due to the growth
in employment levels in the Provincial Governments (0.4 million) and Central
Administration (0.1 million). Figure 2.2 shows the growth and changes in total
public sector employment for selected years.
Figure 2.2:
ARGENTINA --PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT
(AS OF DECEMBER 31, FOR THE YEAR)
LEVE_S C0       f'h2.c!AE'sT I ja-s;
2500 r
2000
01.0
196C  1965  197C  1975  1980  1985  1987
SELECTED YEARS
PEs -4- PURLJC AOM  -*- PROv 6 B A  E TOTAL
VPIISTIV OF ECONOVY



14
2.13.          Total PE employment as of December 31, 1989 was about 294,000
staff as compared with 313,000 in December 1984. As a result of the increase in
the level of employment in other areas of the government, and  the marginal
reduction in the PE employment since 1984, PE employment has decreased from about
25 percent of total public employment in the period 1971-75 to less than 20
percent during 1983-88. However, PE wages as a percent of GDP have remained
relatively constant during the past 20 years.
2.14.          The  total  staff allocated  in  the  three  major  sectors  is
summarized in Table 2.1 below:
Teble 2.1: ARGENTINE PE EMPLOYMENT
(percent)
Sectors                    Dec. 1984     Dec. 1989
1. Energy and Power              26.0          29.0
--YPF                         11.          13.0
--Gas del EstMdo               8.0           8.0
--SEGBA                        7.0           8.0
2. Transport and Cowmunlcation   70.0          67.0
--Ferrocarri lot             38.6           82.0
--ENTeI                       16.0           1.60
S. Industry and Services          4.0           4.0
TOTAL DISTRIBUTION       100.0          160.0
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT (in 060.)   312.4      298.9
Source: SIGEP
2.15.          Almost two-thirds of total PE employment is concentrated in the
four large PEs--Ferrocarriles Argentinos, ENTel, YPF and Gas del Estado--that
would be affected by the proposed loan.
E. PE Financial Performance
2.16.          A key feature of the Argentine economy during the past four
decades has been the heavy reliance on the PE sector as the engine of economic
growth. The growth of PEs reflects a relatively ambitious industrial development
strategy pursued by many governments after World War II, which channelled
resources to the PEs that had been captured from the agricultural sector. These
resources were partly directed towards import substitution industries and partly
to restrict or limit private sector holding in key strategic sectors, providing
low-cost services and products principally for the domestic market at the expense
of cost recovery and profitability.
2.17.          The 1989 financial results for the 13 largest PEs under the
direction of MOSP showed a consolidated operating deficit of US$3.8 billion on
sales revenues of US$8.7 billion. The operating deficit for the first half of
1990 as compared with the first half of 1989 decreased by almost 35 percent. The
four PEs, being addressed under the PERAL--YPF, GdE, ENTel and Ferrocarriles--
collectively account for two-thirds of the total revenues and half the total
operating deficits. Consolidated revenues have traditionally covered operating
costs but have not covered financial and fiscal charges which amounted to US$3.4
billion in 1989. Due to overstaffing in most PEs, 28 percent of total revenues
are deployed to cover personnel costs.  Figure 2.3 shows the 1989 financial
performance:



15
Figure 2.3:
1989 FINANCIAL RESULTS
13 LARGEST PEs IN MOSP
US$ P'LL'ONS
'5,
YPF  GOE   EnTEL FERROCAR 4 PES 9 OTHER P TOTAL
FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR PEs
_ REVENUES      CCSTS  = SURPLUS,(OEFIOT)
*qtKIfl'T or EO~~4
2.18.           The PE contribution to GDP in Argentina in 1988--compared with
two selected countries in the region prior to the implementation of the reform
programs--is relatively modest.  However, PE deficits in Argentina were 4.5
percent of GDP as compared to a surplus of over 10 percent for Chile in 1988.
In Argentina, the absolute size of PEs by itself is not the central issue; it is
the few large scale, capital-intensive industries with such exceedingly poor
financial performance.   In Argentina, PEs' share of the total public sector
deficit has remained fairly consistent at about 50 percent since 1971. Figure
2.4 shows the comparative contribution of the PEs in selected countries:
Figure 2.4:
ARGENTINA -- COMPARATIVE PE ANALYSIS
(1988)
SELECT INOtCATORS
100
PE %GP        PE FO % GOI    PE DEF % GOP
PERCENT
_ ARGENTINA II hI MEXIOO  C CHILE   LATIN AMERI
6X INDUST. COU
('A*IALUE ADDEO: FCIFIXEO CAPITAL INV)



16
2.19.           In  spite  of  their  poor  operating  financial  results,  PE
Investments declined relatively moderately compared to the rest of the economy.
A major source of financing was the preferred access of PEs to domestic public
banks and international lending agencies, especially for investments in the power
sector. PE investment levels fell less than the nation's gross domestic
investment (GDI) in the periods between 1976-80 and 1983-88. Total investment
levels as a percentage of GDP declined by 44 percent, whereas PE investment
levels declined by 33 percent. Furthermore, PE investment levels as a percentage
of total public sector investment increased from an average of 45 percent during
1971-82  to  over  60 percent  in 1983-88.    Figure  2.5  shows  the  evolving
relationship of the PE investment levels from 1971 through 1988:
Figure 2.5:
ARGENTINA -- AVG. INVESTME14T LEVELS
so
60-
40   _                  
20 1f
TOTAL INV. GD$P PE INV. % GOP PE % PUS SEC IN PE INV % TOTAL 
SELECTED INV RATIOS
_  1971-75  W     1976-81  C3 1981-82   _  1983-88
2.20.           Due to the Iiimited availability of long term funds  in the
domestic capital markets and insufficient internal cash generation, PEs were
permitted to finance their investment programs from relatively easy access to
foreign loans. The total external debt for PEs in 1975 was US$1.4 billion; by
1982 it had climbed to US$11.9 billion. Some of the increase in the level of the



17
debt i.s attributed to the Government's own borrowings.  This increase in the
level of the external debt has been a cause contributing to the financial
deterioration of PEs in Argentina. Table 2.3 below shows the breakdown of the
composition of the external PE debt:
Table 2.3: PE EXTERNAL DEBT
(in US$ billion)
1975        1980          1982          1988
o Short term           N/A          3.6          6.6           2.7
o Long term            NIA          4.3          5.3           8.9
Total             1.4         7.9          11.9          11.6
Source: Ministry of Public Works
2.21.     PEs in Argentina have allowed themselves, by their sheer presence, to
become the target of diverse interests. Foremost among the interested parties
are private sector groups that have enjoyed numerous privileges from the PEs.
The growth of some big private firms is largely attributed to: (a) the special
arrangements that have existed, in the form of contractual arrangements
(subsidized input prices to downstream private industries); and (b) the
protection offered to private firms for developing import substitution markets.
These arrangements have enabled the private sector to extract the maximum "rent"
from PEs and industrial policies. Secondly, labor unions have extracted special
privileges in PEs that extend far beyond common practices in the private sector.
Third, political parties have been using PE appointments as rewards for loyal
affiliations and as sources of financing. To reduce the state's vulnerability
to these three powerful groups, the Menem Government concluded that a
comprehensive PE reform needed to be implemented.
PART III - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Obiectives and Strategy
3.01      Obiectives. The Argentine Government, and President Menem personally,
has made the reform of public enterprises a centerpiece of its efforts to move
Argentina to a higher path of sustainable economic growth. The key objectives
of the public enterprise reform program are to:
(a) reduce the role of the State;
(b) increase production and improve quality of service; and
(c) promote private sector investment.
These objectives are to be achieved by: (i) privatizing PEs whenever possible;
(ii) strengthening the government's oversight as a shareholder and restructuring



18
those PEs which cannot be privatized; (iii) setting clear rules of the game and
transparency of control by establishing regulatory processes and agencies; .&Id
(iv) rationalizing labor management by reducing employment commensurate with
efficient operations, eliminating antiproductivity provisions in contracts and
practices, and limiting the role of labor unions in PE management.
3.02      Strategy.  Aware of previous failures of partial reform measures, the
Government concluded that success in reforming PEs required wholesale changes in
contractual relationships with PE customers, suppliers, labor unions and the
central government.  Such radical change left no option but to tackle vested
interests head-on and to press for results on accelerated time tables. President
Menem has proven to be the crucial driving force behind the PE reform.
3.03      The Government selected five areas to launch the PE reform program.
First, two government-owned TV stations were sold through competitive tender for
quick public demonstration effect. Second, ENTel and the national airline were
the lead cases for immediate privatization under international tender and the
spearhead to demonstrate the resolve of the Government. Third, the hydrocarbon
sector was to be the lead case for far-reaching deregulation and promotion of
private investment. Fourth, the sequential privatization of FA was to be the
litmus test for the Government's ability to shed the past legacy of overly
powerful and intrusive labor unions and bureaucracies. Fifth, concessioning of
highway maintenance was to remove serious bottlenecks while generating domestic
political support.   The areas chosen represent key battlegrounds, with the
strongest contractors, most powerful labor unions, and the most influential
political and administrative groups. After first promulgating the basic reform
legislation, the Government issued specific decrees to establish the legal
framework in each area.  The Government has become progressively bolder; it
recently included the power companies and the enterprises under the Ministry of
Defense among further candidates for privatization.
B. The New PE Framework
3.04      In  parallel with  the  ongoing  privatization,  the  Government  is
strengthening its own organizational structure to oversee PEs, is removing
restrictions in the setting of prices and tariffs, is increasing the flexibility
in matters of procurement and labor management, and is improving the regulatory
framework to strengthen competitive behavior.
3.05      Given the historical lack of effective instruments to control PE
operations and investment decisions, the Government plans to strengthen further
the Subsecretariat for Public Enterprises to monitor effectively financial
performance and to lead the planning of future privatizations. The accompanying
PEREL is to finance more complete systems for performance measurement and plans
for further privatization.
3.06      Prices and Tariffs.   Barriers to entry and other regulations have
allowed the Government to manipulate prices and tariffs of PEs for purposes of
income policies. It has been common Government practice to levy surcharges and
excise taxes on some key consumer goods (gasoline, electricity, telephone
services) to enhance general Treasury revenues or to finance expenditures



19
unrelated to PEs. The new reforms target tariffs for petroleum and gas, rail
freight, and telecommunications for deregulation. Crude oil and liquid petroleum
product prices have been raised to international prices as of January 1, 1991.
Natural gas prices would be determined as a calorific-value-equivalent percentage
of  a market  reference  price  of  substitute  fuel-oil.    In  the  case  of
telecommunications, tariffs would be tied to inflation. The new rail freight and
interurban passenger operators would set prices independently in competition with
the trucking and bus industries according to their franchise contracts.
3.07      Procurement.    The  Government  has  begun  to  lower  the  cost  of
procurement to PEs by replacing the various non-tariff barriers with a preference
margin for domestic suppliers at 5 percent above the "nationalized value' of
imported goods, i.e., CIF plus tariffs, fees, and domestic taxes. While rigorous
statistical data are not available, evidence from various sources indicates that
the resulting reduction in PE procurement costs may range from US$200 to US$400
million. In addition, substantial cost savings have been realized as a result
of import tariff reduction; rough estimates indicate savings of US$300 million
in 1990 over 1987 levels.  This significant progress notwithstanding, the PE
procurement is still subject to the "Compre Argentino' Law which, although
temporarily suspended under the emergency legislation, threatens PEs with a
revival of cumbersome approval procedures. (For loan conditionality, see para.
4.13).
Management and Labor
3.08      Low management productivity results from the poor salary structures
of senior management coupled with external interference and a lack of clear
performance objectives.   Senior management of most PEs have been political
appointees where turnover rate was frequent and politically directed (average
tenure is about two years). This structure has resulted in a lack of incentives,
uncertain goal setting, dispersion of responsibilities and decision making
processes unrelated to business considerations. The PEREL would support systems
to create an atmosphere for greater managerial and financial autonomy by linking
corporate plans to performance agreements between the Government and the PE
management.
3.09      Low labor productivity &t all PEs is caused by:  (a) overstaffing
(especially in FA); (b) antiproductive provisions in labor contracts and work
rules;  and  (c) low compensation levels.   To improve PE performance,  the
government has begun to renegotiate labor contracts and to implement staff
reduction programs.  A special labor task force has been established in the
Ministry of Economy, which in turn is being assisted by technical analyses
furnished by consultants.
Regulatory Framework
3.10      Effective and independent regulatory authorities are needed to foster
market discipline and competitive behavior. In the telecommunication sector, a
regulatory framework has already been approved and a National Telecommunication
Commission established. In rail and hydrocarbons, studies are underway to
determine the extent of required regulation and the needed organizational
support.   The institutional build-up of the regulatory framework will be



20
supported by the PEREL. It is to be expected that such build-up will require
much effort over many years. The effectiveness of regulatory authorities will
depend particularly on the degree of professionalism and independence which can
be developed. Vital incentives are compensation schemes which are competitive
with those of the regulated companies.
Environment
3.11      At present, the operation of PEs and other companies in their sectors
are causing important negative environmental consequences.  An environmental
assessment revealed the following weaknesses: (a) petroleum exploration and
exploitation activities generate water effluents with petroleum residues which
damage the soil and contaminate water supplies; (b) petroleum exploration and
exploitation activities generate gas emissions which affect air quality with
negative effects on health; (c) transport of oil and gas (by pipelines, railway
and trucks) causes occasional spillages wnich damage the soil and water; (d) oil
refineries cause contamination of air and the soil through sulphur and carbon
compounds, and oil residues; and (e) railway infrastructure affects the ecology
of surrounding areas and railway buildings have negative urbanistic effects.
Restructuring/privatization of YPF and GdE activities is expected to lead to
significant increases in petroleum and gas production by the year 2000; the
larger share of this increase would arise from private sector operations. These
increases in output may lead to an increase in negative- environmental effects.
Railway reform is expected to exert a lower negative impact on the environment
as significant increases in traffic over some railway sections would be Mitigated
by closures of uneconomic segments. An appropriate institutional frartwork in
the public sector and environmental action plans to establish normas and
regulations for more adequate environmental control are proposed to be supporf-ed
by the PEREL.
C. Reforms of Maior Sectors
3.12      The  PEs  in the Telecommunication,  Rail  and Hydrocarbon  sectors
represent the major test cases for the Government's restructuring/ privatization
program.  The sectoral reforms are detailed below.
(i)  Telecommunications
3.13      Before privatization, Argentina's dominant telephone company, Empresa
Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ENTel) was serving 90 percent of all public
network subscribers.
3.14      Past Performance.  Argentina's public telephone performance for the
last few decades has been a case study in failure.   ENTel was affected by
political forces and social expectations that drove it to the edge of bankruptcy
at the very time demand for its services was growing exponentially. Unrealistic
tariffs, unproductive work rules, costly domestic purchase requirements and weak
internal controls resulted in limited cash to invest in new equipment.
3.15      ENTel provided 3.2 million telephone lines, through 1,300 switching
centers. Estimated current demand is for one million more lines. Historically,



21
only 47 percent of all urban and 23 percent of all long distance calls were
completed. In addition, line trouble was 8 times the world average.
3.16      Faced with a long history of failure, the Menem Government decided
that privatization3 of ENTel was the only alternative to improve services and
to raise investment capital. A politically independent member of Congress was
appointed to centralize the privatization effort. The Bank provided assistance
by supporting consulting services for sector specialists, lawyers and investment
bankers.
3.17      The consultants' effort resulted in the decision to sell 60 percent
of the equity of the telecommunication operations to qualified operators in an
international public tender with price serving as the main criterion for
selection of the winning bidder. The remaining 40 percent of the shares are to
be offered to employees (10 percent), cooperatives (5 percent) and the general
public (25 percent). Urban, interurban and international telephone service (so-
called basic service) was divided into two regions (North and South, with the
dividing line cutting across Buenos Aires).   Basic service was offered with
exclusive rights for up to 10 years and thereafter to be replaced by a system of
open competition. Non-basic and terminal equipment services are to be open to
competition from the start. The formula adopted provided a balance between the
need for an orderly development of the network and competition as the incentive
for efficiency. (See also Annex VI and Telecommunications Map).
3.18      Implementation  of  the  Privatization.    The  Government  has  been
successful in offering the telecommunications business for sale on an accelerated
timetable.   Target dates for prequalification of operators (eleven telephone
companies were prequalified in the spring of 1990) and bid opening were largely
adhered  to.    Three  consortia,  Bell  Atlantic/Manufacturers  Hanover  (US),
Telef6nica/Citibank    (Spain/US);STET    4/France    Cables    5/Morgan    s
(Italy/France/U.S.) submitted bids in June. A tentative award was made in June
to the  Bell/Manufacturers  Consortium  for the northern  region  and to  the
Telef6nica/Citibank Consortium for the southern region.  Negotiations of the
sales  contract  took  longer  than  expected  and  in  early  October  the
Bell/Manufacturers Consortium withdrew and was replaced by the STET/France
Cables/Morgan Consortium. The main reason for the Bell/Manufacturers withdrawal
appears to have stemmed from inconclusive internal negotiations on the respective
financial commitments of the consortium partners.  The transfer of ownership
occurred on November 8, 1990. For both the northern and southern regions, the
Government received US$214 milliun in cash, US$380 million in six-year promissory
notes and about US$5 billion in Argentine external debt instruments.
The Alfonsin Government attemDted to sell 40 percent of the equity but
eventually Congress refused approval.
4    Societa Finanziaria Telefonica per Azioni.
5    France Cables et Radio S.A.
6    J.P. Morgan, Co.



22
3.19      Expected Results.  If the new northern and southern regional companies
meet the service obligations set out in the terms and conditions of the
privatization, the standarui of telecommunications service in Argentina will
improve substantially in the next few years. Service will be extended to most
areas of the country, and the quality of service available in urban centers and
rural areas will increase markedly over the current unsatisfactory level. The
impact of this improvement would be felt in many economic activities through an
increase in the speed and a decrease in the cost of communications and resulting
transactions.   The social benefits,  such as improved access to previously
isolated areas, would also be significant. The new regulatory authority will be
funded directly from the telecommunications revenues and would not burden
Government finances.
3.20      ENTel is not the first state telecommunications enterprise of a
developing country to be privatized; companies in Chile and several smaller
countries (e.g., Belize, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago) were sold in the last
three years.   Nevertheless, ENTel is the largest state telecommunications
enterprise to be privatized, and the first through international competitive
bidding.
(ii) Railways (Ferrocarriles Arsentinos-FA)
3.21      FA, which has a monopoly on rail transport, is the largest Argentine
transport company by nearly any measure, and the worst performing by any
financial  standard.   Because Argentina is a large country with a widely
distributed agricultural base and concentrations of population in few, but
relatively distant, urban centers, domestic transport is an important element in
the overall economy. Transport costs may represent more than 20 percent of final
consumer prices. Over the last 25 years, the Argentine transport system has
undergone significant structural change. Generally, railway service quality and
market share have declined while road transport has increased its share
significantly.   For cargo, rail market share declined from 19 percent to 9
percent while road transport increased from 47 percent to 56 percent; for
interurban passenger transport, rail's share declined from 22 percent to 8
percent while road transport increased from 76 percent to 86 percent.  These
trends partly reflect FA's deteriorating service. The increased importance of
the private sector can be seen especially in the road transport system where,
despite higher tariffs, privately owned trucks and buses have captured much of
the railways' lost market.
3.22      The government has been forced to subsidize FA with over US$500
million annually for the last 5 years; FA's losses are attributable to a bloated
staff of 84,000 employees; poor service, and declining traffic levels. The poor
and unreliable service has been the principal cause of FA's traffic declines,
which,  in turn have contributed greatly to FA's financial problems.   The
productivity of Brazilian, Chilean and Mexican railway companies (measured in
traffic units per employee) is between two and three times that of FA. During
the last five years, government subsidies merely covered operating costs,
providing no funds for maintenance, let alone improvements.



23
3.23      The reason for this poor performance is clear.  Since its creation,
FA has essentially been run as an employment and social service provider.
Management has typically responded to political directives, labor union demands
and pressures from local authorities--not to commercial business considerations.
As the Govetrment's fiscal problems have mounted, it has tried to stem PA's
losses by curtailing investment, reducing staff and lowering real salaries.
These measures have resulted in a further decline in FA's service levels which,
combined with unremunerative tariff levels, have perpetuated the deficit.
Specific problem areas include: (a) duplication of services between the six
railroad lines which have continued to resist consolidation; (b) use of excessive
labor, driven by labor union interference in management decisions, a political
and management bias for labor peace and work rules which mitigate against
productivity improvements; (c) continued operation of unprofitable services based
on political objectives imposed by local authorities; (d) poor allocation of
equipment, usually politically driven, which have resulted in the deterioration
of potentially profitable services and declining market share; and (e)
procurement restrictions and high import tariffs, which make some materials,
particularly locomotives and locomotive spare parts, exceedingly expensive. The
negative effects on the economy are significant.  FA absorbs large resources
without providing service, causing costly dislocation to Argentina's traffic
system.
3.24      Reform Strategy.  After considering various options for restructuring
FA, the Government decided on a strategy that aims at dividing FA into
potentially profitable business segments and to offer these segments as long term
concessions to private companies. (See also Annex VII). PA would cease to have
any major direct operating responsibility for providing railway transport
services and would be transformed into an administrative caretaker organization
and manager of FA's excess real estate and assets. The major reform measures
include:
o    Concession of major cargo services;
o    Operation of metropolitan rail services by a separate enterprise;
o    Elimination of non-essential interurban services;
o    Renegotiation of labor contracts and reduction of staff; and
o    Provision of a regulatory authority for the Buenos Aires Metro Rail
and National Railway Systems.
3.25      Expected Results.   The proposed reform will radically change the
structure of the railways and the way in which they are operated. The transfer
of FA's present operational responsibilities to the private sector should lead
to a business orientation in the provision of transport services as well as an
injection of private risk capital. New cash is expected to be generated by the
private rail network operators and the sale or development of FA's excess plant
and considerable real estate holdings. The entire reform program is likely to
stand or fall on the success of handling the challenge of redundant labor. Staff
reductions are expected to amount to 46,000 over the next 2-3 years yielding
savings of about US$150 million per year.   Most important for Argentina's
economy, however,  is the transformation of rail transport.   Rail transport
services should improve and overall transport costs should decline significantly
as revitalized rail services begin attracting traffic from higher cost modes and
make new economic development and export sectors more viable.



24
3.26      Progress to Date:   The Government's program has made significant
progress in implementation: (a) FA has set up a Technical Unit in charge of
implementing the railway restructuring plan; (b) the Rosario-Bahia Blanca cargo
line has been awarded as a concession to a consortium headed by Techint and a
pre-award was made to a consortium headed by Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona
for the concessioning of the Urquiza cargo line (see Railway Map); (c) 32 percent
of interurban passenger services have been identified as non-essential, one-
fourth of which have already been eliminated; and (d) a separate unit solely
responsible for the metropolitan rail operations has been created within FA.
(iii) Hydrocarbon Sector
3.27      The Argentine State is the dominant player in the hydrocarbon sector.
YPF produces directly 65 percent of all crude oil and, until recently, controlled
most of the rest under service contracts with the private sector, as well as more
than 80 percent of all natural gas.   In addition, YPF owns the national
hydrocarbon transport network, accounts for about 70 percent of the country's
refining capacity and controls 50 percent of petroleum product distribution and
sales.  Traditionally, YPF has held the petroleum rights to most sedimentary
areas of Argelltina, and the company currently administers more than 80 contracts
with  private-sector  investors  for  exploration  and  production.    Under  a
government-laposed sharing arrangement, YPF was obligated to supply crude to the
private refineries. YPF was also required to sell all natural gas to GdE which,
until recently, had a virtual monopoly on natural gas transmission and
distribution in Argentina. YPF has been charged to act as regulator by promoting
exploration by the private sector, negotiating subsequent contracts, and
monitoring implementation, as well as controlling access and tariffs to shipping
and pipelines. GdE regulates third-party investors in natural gas distribution
to residential users and ensures design standards for installations and gas
pipelines.
3.28      Argentine output of liquid petroleum has declined over the last decade
(a recovery in 1988 and 1989 is considered temporary), while the
production of natural gas has expanded.   The reserve/production ratios have
fallen to 8 years for crude oil and 20 years for natural gas.  In 1988, YPF
registered an operating loss of US$200 million. GdE has had operating losses of
US$150 million p.a. during the last 5 years, albeit at a declining rate because
of more effective cost control.
3.29      Argentina is running out of crude oil; and the trend of declining oil
production and reserves will accelerate unless investment in exploration and
development is expanded sharply. If present trends continue, oil imports will
accelerate rapidly. The dilemmas facing the petroleum sector have resulted from
a combination of factors:
o    Outside Interference.   Most financial, operational, and investment
decisions affecting YPF and GdE have been made outside the companies
at the political level, based primarily on the Government's need for
cash and pressure from special interest groups, including strong labor
unions. For example, the Government has forced YPF to transfer funds
to the provinces through royalty payments significantly above the



25
range of what is common internationally; likewise, GdE has been forced
to subsidize the petrochemical manufacturers and domestic consumers
of gas; and the provinces and unions have had a decisive say in YPF's
drilling program.
o    Lack of Commercial Orientation of YPF and GdE.  Neither YPF nor GdE
was profit-oriented, and neither company has had access to sufficient
financial resources to undertake investments commensurate with their
mandate and the potential of the sector. Management of the companies
has had virtually no authority or accountability, and senior positions
have been changed frequently and often filled with appointees without
knowledge  of  the  hydrocarbon  business.    Losing  operations  are
perpetuated by grants from the government, notwithstanding their
inability  to compete or generate a profit.   Cost accounting is
virtually nonexistent and records are not adjusted properly for
currency devaluations. Irregularities are reportedly widespread.
O    Distorted Financial Incentives.  A series of price signals  distorted
the operations of the sector such as: (a) government-guaranteed
refinery margins; (b) a refinery tax which has made trade in crude
unattractive; and (c) high cost production contracts with private
petroleum companies with no incentives for efficiency improvements.
As a result, the private sector has been highly profitable but with
limited incentives for investment, while YPF has not had the funds to
explore and develop properly the areas under its control.
O    Procurement.  The requirement that PEs favor the purchase of national
equipment, "Compre Argentino," has caused higher costs for goods and
services to both private oil and gas producing companies and State
enterprises (including YPF and GdE), while at the same time it also
restricts real competition. This has led to obsolete technology and
overall inefficiency. These complex restrictions have also resulted
in price protection of up to 200-300 percent. For example, YPF paid
about US$1,375 million for equipment, materials, and contract services
in 1989. Of this amount, estimates show that the effect on YPF from
the "Compre Argentino" legislation will amount to an increase in the
nominal cost of about 40 percent. Thus, about US$550 million per year
was paid by YPF to subsidize the local private petroleum industry and
other interests.   The Economic Emergency  Law  in July 1989 has
temporarily transfermed the virtually unlimited protection of domestic
suppliers to the public sector to a five percent preference over the
nationalized value of competing imports. However, with import tariffs
and para-tariffs and only weak competition between domestic suppliers,
the public sector continues to be overcharged by the private sector.
3.30      The Government of President Menem has concluded that a comprehensive
deregulation and partial privatization of the hydrocarbon sector are needed to
end the many inefficiencies of the state firms in the sector, to mobilize the
large amounts of investment required and to ensure their efficient allocation as
an essential condition for reversing the decline in hydrocarbon production and
reserves.   For this purpose,  it has adopted a four-pronged strategy:  (a)
liberalization of virtually all hydrocarbon prices; (b) deregulation of crude oil



26
purchases and sales including imports and exports; (c) enhanced opportunities for
private sector operations in exploitation and production areas held by YPF; and
(d) restructuring/privatization of YPF and GdE. (See Annex VIII and Oil and Gas
Map).
3.31      The Government's plan aims at establishing an environment of open
competition and equal opportunity for both public and private companies in all
aspects of production, sales, and distribution of energy resources, while at the
same time ensuring that national interests are protected with a minimum of
regulations and controls. Specific elements are:
o    Liberalization of prices--raising of crude and petroleum products
prices to international pYTF-levels '; elimination of predetermined
refinery margins; naturat gas prices to reach 90 percent of fuel oil
equivalency, with netback procedure for determining the producer gas
price and with a cost plus procedure for determining the distributor
gas price; producers will be entitled to obtain a percentage of sales
proceeds in foreign exchange. Given its dominant market presence, YPF
can be expected to provide price leadership for the foreseeable
future.
o    Deregulation of trade--oil and gas producers will be able to sell to
the highest bidder; YPF and other producers will have the right to
trade in crude and products; all imports and exports after
deregulation would not be subject to discriminating tariffs; all
production from marginal areas would be freely disposable; all
producers would have access to treatment, transport, storage, and
shipment infrastructure with a common-carrier type tariff; new
refineries and service stations may be opened and service stations
freely owned.
o    Incentives for the private sector--award of exploration r'ghts to
private  companies  under  international  tender;   joint  venture
participation in YPF's main producing areas for enhanced and secondary
recovery; conversion of existing service contracts into concessions
or associations; and GdE's preferential right to contract for freely
available gas to be subject to GdE's exercising its option within a
30 day period. The planned privatization of GdE will eliminate all
preferential rights.
o    Tax system--royalty reference price for crude oil to be set at a
maximum of 80 percent and for natural gas at a maximum of 70 percent
(on calorific equivalency basis) of average international parity
prices; reduction of the tax on locally refined crude oil from 10
percent to 0.1 percent of crude oil; private companies to bear and pay
the royalty on the freely available petroleum they receive; excise
taxes to be transformed into a single ad valorem tax.
7    As Argentina is a marginal exporter of crude and petroleum products.
international parity is tested by comparing YPF prices with adjusted
published export prices in suitable reference markets.



27
3.32      Organization.  With Bank assistance, studies have been completed to
define what business activities of YPF and GdE will be privatized in the near
future. The PEREL will finance additional studies to examine strategic plans of
the restructured YPF, to support the privatization of gas transmission and
distribution, to define the needed changes in the legal regime to provide it with
administrative and financial autonomy and its future reporting and control
relationship with the Government as well as the privatization of redundant
components. The PEREL is also financing the assistance required for YPF actual
restructuring/divestitures and the actual privatization of GdE's transportation
and distribution system.
3.33      Expected Results.  The deregulation of the hydrocarbon sector will
result in the virtual elimination of the welfare costs from past  petroleum
product and gas price distortions, estimated at about US$500 million p.a. The
resource transfer from consumers and government to producers implicit in the
deregulation of prices coupled with the opening of attractive possibilities for
the private sector should lead to a major expansion in investments reversing the
declining trend in production and proved reserves over the last decade. It will
also bring about a greater efficiency in energy use. Although the government and
the provinces will initially see their revenues decline, increased production in
the long run should improve the fiscal position of the Government.
3.34      Progress.   The Government has already enacted legislation and issued
successive decrees that cover in detail the various aspects of hydrocarbon sector
deregulation. Prices of most petroleum products (except natural gas) are now at
international  parity  prices.    Natural  gas  prices  have  been  increased
significantly on January 1, 1991, and will reach 90 percent of fuel oil prices
by January 1992, at the latest.  Most of YPF's nonproducing areas have been
offered to the private sector under risk-sharing contracts through international
tender.   Sixty-three contracts have been signed.   The conversion of the
exploitation service contracts with the private sector into risk contracts is in
the final stages of negotiations; a set of 27 YPF marginal areas contracts have
been signed and cash payments of about US$250 million received; 16 companies have
been pre-qualified to bid for joint ventures in four of YPF's most productive
fields. Plans for restructuring YPF and privatization of GdE are under way.
3.35      Regulatory Agency and Issuance of Regulations.  A regulatory agency
needs to be organized and staffed to assume the sector regulatory functions,
numerous regulations (natural gas, pipeline construction and operation.
infrastructure, tariffs, etc.) need to be prepared and promulgated, and a master
plan needs to be prepared and adapted for gradual transfer of regulatory
functions from the sector PEs to the regulatory agency.  While a regulatory
structure is required to ensure a framework for an orderly implementation of
privatization and operation by the private companies, the Government should
consider a full deregulation in a longer term as natural gas becomes more widely
traded in the region (Uruguay, Brazil and Chile) and Argentina converts into a
gas surplus country. An ongoing Bank-supervised study will recommend appropriate
natural gas regulation and tariff levels and structures.



28
3.36      International Comparison.  The new Argentine petroleum framework is
attractive for the private sector. Sixty-three contracts have been signed under
the so-called Houston Plan awarding exploration acreage to international and
local private companies. In addition, producing areas (marginal and central)
have been sold to the private sector. It is estimated that close to 50 percent
of domestic Argentine production will be controlled by the private sector in the
near future; and this share will likely keep increasing as oil is found in areas
under private sector exploration. In comparison, production is controlled by 100
percent by the national oil companies (NOCs) in Mexico, Venezuela, Brazil and
Chile; around 50-75 percent by the NOCs in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru; and about
25 percent by the NOC in Colombia.  Unlike Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and
Brazil do not allow risk contracts by the private sector.   Few developing
countries that either export oil, or are self-sufficient in it, have liberalized
petroleum prices as rigorously as Argentina.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01      The Bank has played an active role in promoting public enterprise
reform in Argentina over the last three years and has approved an aggregate of
about US$7 million in funding for project preparation drawn from various current
loans and project preparation facilities. The proposed PERAL and PEREL would
provide further Bank technical support as well as vital financial assistance.
Without this catalytic support, the critical reforms would be lesb likely to
proceed.  A major reform of the Federal Government and Central Bank would be
supported by a Public Sector Reform Loan, likely to be presented to the Board
before the end of FY91.
B. Scope of the Proposed Loan
4.02      The strategic concept of the PERAL is based on the presumption that
the success in reforming PEs in Argentina requires a powerful thrust to cause
profound changes in contractual relationships with PE customers, suppliers, labor
unions and the central government. Such thrust is achieved by acting on a most
difficult set of PEs such as the telecommunications, hydrocarbons, and railway
sectors which account for at least half of the revenues, employment and operating
deficits. Other important sets of PEs under the Defense Ministry and the power
companies were not included in the focus of the proposed PERAL, as
privatization/restructuring plans were not sufficiently advanced at the time of
project preparation. Excluded from the PERAL focus was also the privatization
of the national airline as the Government wished to proceed on an accelerated
timetable thus not permitting a comprehensive dialogue with the Bank. Further
privatizationlrestructuring studies and plans are being supported by the PEREL.
C. The Proposed Loan
4.03      The proposed Loan would be for US$300 million equivalent.  Due to the
phased nature of the reform, it is proposed that disbursements be made in one
first tranche of US$150 million and in two subsequent tranches of US$75 million



29
apiece. The two subsequent tranches would be independent of each other and would
be made available provided conditions have been met in respect of: (a) "overall"
conditions--i.e., macroeconomic performance and progress made in the PE
framework--and (b) "sector reform conditions" either in Railways or Hydrocarbons.
Since sectoral reforms depend vitally on staff reductions, especially in the
railways, disbursements will be conditioned on satisfactory progress in the
Government's own staff reduction program (see para. 4.05).
D. Proaram Implementation
4.04      The Borrower will be the Argentine Republic; the Ministry of Economy
(ME) will be the Executing Agency. The Subsecretariat for Public Enterprises
would be responsible for the reform programs and would be assisted by a unit in
matters of coordination, administration and technical support to PEs. Continuing
financial support for this Unit would be provided by the proposed companion PEREL
Loan. At the enterprise level, the respective chief executives will report to
the  Subsecreariat  on  the  progress  of  the  reform  programs.    Given  the
unprecedented complexity of the privatization/restructuring process in the
railway sector, combined with the weakness of the current organization, a special
Railway Technical Unit has been established.  Financial support to this Unit
would be provided under PEREL.
4.05      Disbursement and Procurement.  The disbursement of the proposed PERAL
would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject to a pre-audit that they
have been paid for and the goods have entered into the country. Eligible imports
would exclude items on a negative list, i.e., the customary limitations excluding
financing of military equipment, luxury consumer goods, and hazardous materials
would be applied. In addition, disbursement would be conditioned upon provision
of certification of satisfactory progress in the Government's program of staff
reductions. For the first tranche, satisfactory progress is defined as railway
staff reductions of 12,500. For the subsequent railway tranche, satisfactory
progress is defined as further staff reductions of 17,500.  In addition, for
either the railway or the hydrocarbon tranche, further staff reductions in other
PEs of 6,000 would have to be certified. Amounts outstanding under prior Project
Preparation Facilities (two PPFs of US$750,000 each have been approved in respect
of PERAL) shall be refunded upon effectiveness.   The Closing Date would be
December 31, 1993.  Further, retroactive financing for expenditures incurred
after October 1, 1990 equivalent to US$60 million, or 20 percent of the PERAL
Loan, is proposed to support significant policy actions taken before Board
F-esentation.   Disbursements would be made on the basis  of statement of
expenditures, certifying the individual import expenditures, the goods imported,
payments made and the amounts involved and demonstrating their eligibility under
the loan.  For contracts above US$5.0 million, all related payments would be
fully documented.
4.06      Procurement under the proposed operation should be carried out as
follows: (a) Contracts for Public and Private sector procurement of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more each, shall be awarded
through simplified international competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; and (b) Public Sector contracts below US$5 million shall be awarded to
the lowest evaluated bidder following procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) Private Sector contracts below US$5 million may follow established commercial



30
practices, but provided that they are awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries,
except where direct contracting is permissible.
4.07      Accounting and Auditing.   The Coordinating Unit of ME would be
responsible for maintaining loan accounts, and for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications. Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on
the basis of a summary from ME detailing individual import transactions in each
relevant period, together with a certification of payments of the amounts
involved, and of their eligibility under the loan. Applications for withdrawals
will be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$l million.
Further, ME would be responsible for maintaining all records pertaining to the
Government's staff reduction program.
4.08      The ME will maintain separate accounts to record and monitor loan
disbursements and repayments. All records and accounts in support of statements
of expenditures financed under the proposed Loan will have been audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to
IBRD, prior to disbursements.
E.  Loan Conditions
4.09      The proposed PERAL would be conditioned on actions which reflect: (a)
satisfactory macroeconomic performance (see Letter of Development Policy--Annex
X); (b) satisfactory progress in strengthening the overall PE framework; and (c)
satisfactory progress in sector reforms in the railways and hydrocarbon sectors.
4.10      Satisfactory progress in strengthening the overall PE framework will
hinge on: (a) implementation of a system to measure the performance of key
enterprises for which the public sector retains ownership; (b) formulation of
further privatization plans; (c) repealing the lCompre Argentinol Law as PEs will
not be able to compete unless this restriction is removed; and (d) a major
reduction of budgetary transfers to the Railways and elimination of all transfers
to Gas del Estado as of 1992.
4.11      The sectoral reform in Railways depends on progress in:  (a) the
concessioning of other major cargo lines; (b) the implementation of staff
reduction plans; (c) the establishment of a new metropolitan rail enterprise; and
(d) the establishment of a suitable regulatory framework.   In Hydrocarbons,
sectoral reforms will be measured against: (i) liberalization of prices; (ii)
increasing the proportion of crude oil production freely available to the private
sector; (iii) restructuring/privatizing YPF/GdE; and (iv) establishing a suitable
regulatory framework.
4.12      During negotiations the following loan conditionality was agreed:
Conditions of Effectiveness
-    Complete concession contract for Rosario-Bahia Blanca Cargo Line;
-    Simultaneous effectiveness of the PEREL;



31
-    Continued compliance with deregulation of crude and petroleum
product prices (YPF prices to be compared to international
reference prices) including free imports and exports.
4.13      Conditions for Release of Floating Tranches.  Both the Railway and the
Hydrocarbon Tranches are tied to the common conditions of: (a) continued
satisfactory macro performance; (b) ME implementing satisfactory systems of
performance agreements for key enterprises such as AyE, YPF, HIDRONOR and the
Buenos Aires Metropolitan Railways; (c) ME formulating further privatization
plans for enterprises in major infrastructure sectors such as SEGBA, AGP and OSN;
(d) repeal of "Compre Argentinow Law; and (e) the Government limiting budgetary
transfers to the Argentine railways to US$350 million in 1991 and to US$250
million in 1992 and to halt all budgetary transfers to Gas del Estado as of 1992
as evidenced in the respective annual budget laws.
4.14      The individual sectoral conditions are:
o    In respect of Railways:
-    Complete   concession  contract  on  Urquiza  and  MitrelSan
MartinlSarmiento cargo lines;
-    Establish separate metropolitan rail enterprise and approve plan
of subsidy reduction;
-    Agree on essential interurban passenger network;
-    Establish regulatory agency for metropolitan area as well as the
national system;
o    In respect of Hydrocarbons:
-    Set natural gas prices at 90 percent of fuel oil, at calorific
equivalent;
-    Continued compliance with deregulation of crude and petroleum
product prices;
-    Complete transactions on production sharing contracts in four YPF
central areas;
-    Progress in divestiture of YPP business units;
-    Approve set-up of new YPF including a corporate structure which
permits a participation of the private sector;
-    Progress in privatizing GdE and transfer to the private sector
of 10 percent of gas production;
-    Establish regulatory agencies.



32
4.15      The evolution of policy change is summarized in the policy matrix of
Annex IX. Loan conditionality is supplemented by a Development Policy Letter
(Annex X) which includes the macroeconomic framework as well as the PE Reform
Program.
F. Benefits and Risks
4.16      Benefits.   In the broadest sense, significant growth benefits are
expected: first, from productivity gains of transforming a major segment of the
economy (both public and private) from a state of control and protection to one
of competition; and second, from increased investment of the private sector,
which would become active irn the previously monopolistic domain of public
enterprises.    Specifically,  we  would  expect  increases  in production  and
improvements in service quality, reversing the declining trend of petroleum
production and improving quality and availability of telecommunications and rail
transport  services.   Most  importantly,  the  program will help  reduce  the
structural deficit of the public sector. Privatizations led already to capital
revenues equivalent to nearly 0.8 percent of GDP in 1990.  In 1991 and 1992,
total net savings, including both deferred payments on privatizations and the
one-time severance payments, would amount to about 0.7 percent of GDP; thereafter
annual savings would be equal to about 1.0 percent of GDP. In addition, savings
from petroleum deregulation and better pricing of petroleum might conservatively
yield at least 0.3 percent of GDP. These improvements will be relatively hard
to reverse.   The public should perceive, therefore, that these drops in the
fiscal deficit are more permanent than many other deficit-cutting measures. Also
the reductions in external debt through the privatizations have improved
relations substantially with external creditors and created new possibilities for
an eventual debt reduction operation that could further contribute to permanent
fiscal balance. Thus, the PERAL measures could improve expectations and lower
real interest rates more than might be the case with similar cuts in the deficit
obtained with  other measures.    Finally,  the  privatizations  should yield
substantial efficiency benefits in critical public services and these will
increase output both directly and indirectly, with positive effects for tax
revenues, income levels and poverty alleviation.
4.17      Social Impact.   The reform of public enterprises counts with the
overwhelming approval of the general public which expects significant
improvements in the efficiency and quality of services they provide. However,
while the reforms are focussed on these objectives, they may create social
tension because of price and tariff increases on the one hand and reductions in
the labor force on the other hand. Increases in gasoline and natural gas prices
are likely to be particularly sensitive socially. The Government is considering
options to cushion these effects through social programs. Further, severance
payments--supported by the Loan--would provide for a transition period until
workers find new jobs.   Additional incentive programs would be designed to
support training and to facilitate job search.
4.18      Risks.  The objectives of the proposed loan are quite ambitious and
are subject to three different types of risk. First, the envisioned competitive
framework may not be achieved: i.e., the deregulation of the hydrocarbon sector
may not be permanent and YPF may not be streamlined in size and operation; the
regulatory agency for telecommunications may not work effectively; and the



33
intended sequential privatization of FA may be diluted, with little fundamental
change in its present structure. Progress already made in the implementation of
the reforms and the irreversibility of some key actions against failure. Second,
the progress in achieving specific targets of the loan may not be fully
satisfactory or may proceed more slowly than desired. The likelihood of problems
during implementation is high--vested interests may attempt to derail the reform
process and the bureaucracy may not cooperate wholeheartedly. Key PE managers
or government officials may be replaced. The commitment of President Menem and
his senior aides provide some insurance against this risk. Third, in the short
term, there is a risk that fiscal policy adjustment may be too slow which may
cause a loss of public confidence resulting in new inflationary expectations and
a sudden movement against the Austral. This would produce a new outburst of high
inflation, and this could erode the political support necessary to support
continued structural reforms. However, proceeding with the structural reforms
supported by PERAL is as vital in shaping short-term expectations as short-term
adjustments; the private sector looks at the sustainability of the fiscal
position as well as monthly performance. The Government would find it difficult
to continue with the proposed reforms without timely Bank support; in addition,
without the Bank it would lack the implicit certification as to the strength of
the  PE  reform process.    The  risk  of proceeding  at  this  time  is  also
counterbalanced by the Government's commitment to the stabilization and
structural reform effort; over the course of its tenure in office it has
repeatedly demonstrated that it would take measures to ensure continued short-
term improvement of fiscal accounts to attain stabilization objectives.
PART V - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
A. Previous Bank Experience
5.01      Although Argentina joined the Bank in 1956, for years it was not a
major borrower.  Of the US$4.4 billion committed by the Bank to date (net of
cancellations), US$3.4 billion was committed between FY81 and FY90, particularly
in the latter half of the period.   The pace of Bank lending to Argentina
accelerated in 1985 at the request of the Argentine Government, primarily in
support of its programs of economic adjustment and reform.  The intellectual
foundations for this closer involvement have been created by a substantial
program of economic and sector work, intense policy dialogue, and significant
lending for technical assistance.   Particularly in this latter period Bank
involvement in Argentina has encompassed both countrywide and sectoral issues,
and I   included adjustment, investment and technical assistance lending.
5.02      The underlying goals of the Bank's involvement have been to contribute
to better utilization of Argentina's considerable human and physical resources
by promoting macroeconomic stability and improving the management of these
resources, particularly in the public sector. A select number of themes have
continued to dominate Bank activities in Argentina over the years.   At the
economy-wide level these include reform of the fiscal, financial and foreign
trade systems,  and system-wide improvements in public management.   At the
sectoral level the Bank has been heavily involved in the energy sector (both
electric power and hydrocarbons); in other public infrastructure (transport,
water supply and sewerage, housing and municipal development); and in the



34
productive sectors of agriculture and industry.  In addition, a major public
management initiative of the Bank has been to improve the management of
Argentina's social sectors.
5.03      Notwithstanding the considerable continuity in the dialogue between
Argentina and the Bank in recent years, the present loan is the first adjustment
loan the Bank has made to Argentina since PY89, and is the fourth adjustment loan
ever made to Argentina.  In FY86 the Bank made a US$350 million Agricultural
Sector Loan, followed in FY87 by a US$496.4 million Trade Policy and Export
Diversification Loan. In October 1988 the Board approved two further adjustment
loans, a Second Trade Policy Loan (TPLII) (US$300 million) and a Banking Sector
Loan (US$400 million). As discussed more fully in a paper to the Board in July
1990 8I the first tranche of the TPLII was released upon effectiveness on
November 15, 1988 and was fully disbursed by January 1989. However, further
progress was stalled by the collapse of the macroeconomic stabil4lzation program.
the so-called Plan Primavera. (An oral report on these developments was provided
to the Executive Directors on March 2, 1989.) The deteriorating macroeconomic
situation, considerably aggravated by the political transition then imminent,
also made it impossible to obtain the goals of the Banking Sector Loan, which was
accordingly never signed and allowed to lapse. Macroeconomic turbulence coupled
with the change in government in July 1989 created unpropitious circumstances for
fresh Bank lending until stability was reestablished and the policy directions
of the new Government established. Accordingly no Bank lending occurred in PY90,
and macroeconomic disturbances also affected the pace of disbursements under
investment loans.  By July 1990, matters had improved sufficiently to permit
disbursement of the Second Tranche of the TPLII. Lending was resumed only in
December 1990 when the Board approved two investment loans for Provincial
Development and Water Supply.
B. Bank Strategv
5.04        The Bank's medium-term country assistance objectives are to improve
public finances so as to help eliminate the persistent structural deficits that
have caused economic instability, slow growth and increased poverty over the last
decade. This means rationalizing public expenditure and improving the revenue
base; it also means focusing the Government's activities on protecting the poor
during adjustment and making much needed infrastructure investment necessary to
unleash the productive potential of the country. This would help lay the basis
for a private sector led investment recovery.
5.05       The thrust of Bank strategy toward Argentina is public sector reform.
In addition to the proposed PERAL, the other two major linchpins of this strategy
support major reforms in the Federal Government, the Central Bank, and the
Provinces. The Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) will support improvements in the
tax system and reductions in tax expenditures for industry currently estimated
to cost over US$1.0 billion; on the expenditure side, it will support a major
81 Argentina - Progress of the Second Trade Policy Loan. R90-153,
July 31, 1900.



35
administrative reform designed to reduce federal employment by about 20 percent
while significantly refocusing government activities and improving budgetary
procedures. Finally, the PSRL is designed to disentangle the Central Bank from
public finances to allow it to become a functioning and autonomous monetary
authority. The PSRL is expected to be presented to the Board about April 1991.
The Provincial Development Loan (a US$250 million; approved in December 1990)
will provide resources to finance provincial public investments in proportion to
the success of individual provinces at increasing their own savings and balancing
their budgets. It will also provide resources for technical assistance to assure
that budgets agree- with the federal government are adequately followed. Taken
together, these reforms will support ambitious structural changes in the
organization and financing of the Argentine public sector. Additional investment
loans in water supply and the social sectors will help improve services available
to low-income groups and in some measure cushion the burden of adjustment. The
Bank would lend essentially for projects in the social sectors as well as for
projects to rehabilitate the country's basic infrastructure.   The Bank is
preparing various projects in infrastructure,  energy and agriculture.   In
addition, the Bank is working on a Maternal, Child Health and Nutrition Project,
intended to alleviate the impact of recession and hyperinflation on vulnerable
segments of society, particularly mothers and young children.
5.06      The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the design and execution
of adjustment operations, in formulating the lending strategy, and in economic
and sector work.  Since 1989, the Bank and the IMF have had several parallel
missions in which macroeconomic and sectoral policies were discussed. There has
also been frequent cross-mission support. For example, Bank and Fund staff have
exchanged information and views in the preparation of the 3 major public sector
reform operations being undertaken by the Bank (Provincial Development Project,
PERAL and PSRL). Considerable effort is made by staff of each institution to
comment on the other's work, to use a common database, and to ensure consistent
conditionality in lending operations.
5.07      In agreement with the Government, the Bank is working closely with the
IDB on almost all operations in the work program. Extensive consultation exists
between the two institutions on devising lending strategies in the social
sectors, in particular, where new operations are planned and in support for the
Government's adjustment effort.   Collaboration now extends from investment
projects, such as recently approved Provincial Development loan and the planned
second power sector loan, to the proposed PSRL. This latter would be the first
adjustment operation for IDB in Argentina and among the first for that
institution. Given the magnitude of Argentina's needs, cofinancing by these tvo
institutions significantly increases the scope for renewed investment in
Argentina, especially since commercial funds have all but disappeared.   In
addition, cofinancing from Spain, and Italy, and more recently Japan, is of
increasing importance and discussions are ongoing on various possible projects
with these and other potential sources of cofinancing.
C.  IFC Lending Program
5.08      While overall private sector investment has continued to decline as
a result of economic instability and domestic demand contraction, some lines of



36
activity have shown promising signs. A growing number of private companies are
increasing their export orientation, mainly in resource based agroindustry,
textiles, pulp and paper, and oil and gas derivatives. Also, a few companies are
going into service sectors such as satellite telecommunications, air transport,
and gas distribution, to substitute for the public sector in these activities.
As the privatization program is carried out, further investments by local and
foreign companies may extend into the areas of local telecommunications, railway
transport, petroleum, and petrochemicals.
5.09      Argentina has taken extensive measures to liberalize its trade regime,
and maintains a free foreign exchange market.   Despite some setbacks, these
policies are taking hold and the private sector has begun to restructure and
modernize their operations to become internationally competitive. More recent
efforts to reduce sectoral and regional investment subsidies are also creating
pressures  for the companies  to become more  efficient.   However,  economic
uncertainty and the scarcity of credit are preventing most of these companies
from implementing the necessary restructuring and modernization programs.
5.10      Despite the difficulties experienced by the majority of Argentine
companies, most of IFC's clients have weathered the successive crises. This is
largely the result of a highly selective company/project screening and a thorough
appraisal process, including economic analysis. IFC's investment strategy in
Argentina is to support export-oriented investments and privatization. IFC would
seek mechanisms to mitigate the country and payment risks (e.g. outside
guarantees, external escrow accounts).   In addition to projects with strong
export orientation, IFC would support privatization or restructuring projects
through fee-based advisory services and foreign resource mobilization.
5.11      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank. and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
January 14, 1991
Washington, D.C.



ANNE X T
3 7
II-2t-J      1  59 A.                                  A'ets         K.~ M-ceo"---c I'dceat-'
(Z   --ect  -.''a  othoerss. e-eC'e4)
1987      1988      1989       19921     :991       1992      1993       1994      195       1996       1997,      1998
'n"-ct n  ccc'            i~~~~~~ 0  2 7'    (4 4'    ii 1'         2         3          2El       2 8        3 2       3 c       3 2         3 2
C.-   ta    '~~~,'c"   ea-t ne'          2         4 2'    (5 9'    (2 6'            3       I 7       1 3        I1        I          I  El     1 7         1 7
-    '2'  ve  '.ar 'a                  8~~~~~~~~~~ 3'  (4 I (14       0P         C 4       06         C, Et     I          I                       4
*                    136       125         IC        81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  11) 135 14       145       117        i156      16C         IC6
'¾                              85        61        ~~~       ~~~        ~~~       ~ ~ ~~~~           ~~~~~46  19  82  171  103  1271  111  115   11 9
531       56        42         30(       3         38P        42        45         4S        4 5        465        45F
-' a' 2.  -,,                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~8 4  10 7  7 0      9 a      10 5       11 5      12 1       13 0      13 5      14 3       14 8       15s
124       143        :Ie        96        8'         9 4       95        92         8I9       91I        9 4
-                               (~~~~~~~~~           ~~~      ~~2 5~  (36'5  48  ('8'  56E  2:  a2         8        49        5 1        5 4        5~
*'~~~~V   C5.'2~~~~~~~~              .2       18~~~I     2C        I1         1 4       2         18         I8        15         1 3       121         II
-   S1)    (2 7)        (  3>         1       3 8;      A4         59         5          s        4 9         S.C
* . - - ~~~~~~~,..'es ~~~~~201                  17 1       1is7      18 C       1  6      21 1      21 7      22 2       22 2      22 2       22 2       72 2
* -     Fare,d, t -a~~~~Sa                24 8       21 7      24 4      20 4       7fl CI    71 3       21 5      21 4      2(C6       20 4      20 1        19 94
-'  'Ca. .~~~~~~~~~~~~e ~~(2-5)                 (3 67      (4 8'     (0 87      16         2:1       30        38         48        5 1        5 4        SCF
 .sC'''g5                      :9         10        09~       ~~~       ~~~       ~~~       ~~~        ~~~       ~~ : 6  2 1  2 3  28  30  32  3 3  3 3  3 3
5 3       58        42         30c       37-        3.8       42        45         45        4 5        4 5        45
-*'r S  ~        S-ct-                       (7 C1    (9 0)       (8 3)     (3 37      iC.9)     (C 37     (0' 6)     (0.31      0 7        1 0       1 3         1 5
*sr.e    S.-r',sO(9)                                     kl14)      0'2        CC        00  0       1(01               01         01        0 1        01           2
P. 8:           -d Uy                     (7 9)'  (,10 4)      (8 1)    (3 3)       (  9'    (C 2'        C'.5)    (0 2)       0a8       1 2        1 4        1 
9~-a    c---..  -'t)                       1 9       0.4       (0 5)     (1.8)      (1 8)     (1 6)     (I 1)      (1.4)     (I 4)      (I 4)     (1 7)       (1 8)
A-a.a-,j d.'    Sc,-...                   9       0 4        4 C       I C        2 0,      2 2       2 0        2 4       2 3        2 0       2 1         1 6
3   96        46        42           7      (0 3'      (0 4)     (0 8)     '1 6)      (1 7)     (19'        (2 0)
-'.' 'a  Q-et$ '-tel                   ---      216        46         90       (247)      3 8        4A        44         49        4 9        5 0        5'
¼   c. '.--e                      ---       ~~~      ~~~~~     ~~~~        ~~90  (6 5)  314A  0 4  224  27  27       27         2 8       2.8         2 8
A                       ---      ~~~~       ~~~        ~~~      ~~362  92  10   (3 3)  4 9  58   58        651        6 5       66E         6 6
--' .."ct 008                      10 5      13 0       18 6      14 4      13 3       14 2      14 7       150 C     i53        15 8      15 9       18 3
- r.-',  "ci' g'-eeth -ate)         ---      ~~~~~(9 9)   (13.2'  (3 0)    20.5        17 5       8 2        7 1            6.     64       6.6         67
-' ~~~ ' "'a'S it" ~~~~~10. 2             8 9       101 6      - 8        9        I 1  8,   I I4       11 9      12 3       12 7      13 1        13 5
37        30        29-        7 2       55s       29         26        2           1        2 
WP               4)  ~~3   4          BC        87 4-A3              3 4       33         31        30         2 9       2 8         2 7
- 'a--  A.-c'~.''  a'acc;....r'"tCDP    (5 2)      C8)       (2 0)    (0 1)    (I 4)        (2 0)      (I 8)    (I 8)    (1 6)        (I 3)     (1.2)       (1 1)
a'.. - ''a   1'-e-  '1987 = 100)            100 0    107 9    10468         99 2      95 6       97 2      99 2      99g5       996 8      9        100 2      100 5
A.-cc..t 81a'c. (cI;on, L'55)     (4.238)  (1.572)  (1.293)         (134)  (1,397)  (2,065)  (1,8919)  (1.926)  (1.831)  (1,678)  (1.575)    (1,544)
'ota  'Ct' ~~~~n '~~'e- 058) ~57,916   60,192   83,431   57.307   55,074   53.336   55,047   56,555   87.981   59.262   60,443                         61.572
'ye   "'(. --et Gt'~                           71 6      69 1       98 5      6286       53 7      52 3      52 7       51 9      49 8       47 6      45 4        43 2
--tt1'~  s-''Ce 'ta1 Cb"-et GOP                     8 I      10 8      18.9       12 8      12 2       12 0      11.1      11.4       11 1      10 4       10 3        9 8
1"ceasnt Tota. (..l'on UISt)                     4.145    4.678    6,023    5,821    5,205    4.865    4,600I    4,472    4,410                4,302    A.211        4.188
- t-es' 'a  Lu-e't W0'                             6 1        5 4       9 4       6 4        5 1       4 8        4 4       4 1       3 8        3 5       3 2         2 I
Deecs~CI0bt Se.-;cciCu...ant 0DP b/         2 5       2 8        3.5       3 1        3 1       2 9)      2.3        2 5       2 3        2.0       2 0         1 8
'.e.ape '1at a :.                    ~~~~ ~~~~~6 3  108 9  95 0    105 2      84 2       71 7      75 1      75.6       79 4      84 7       89 2       91.9
I- 'c-es'   e'.'ar.-sgPatU  d4;              0 C       -3 0      -5 5        4 4      48 0      81 9      30 5       37 4      29 4       24 3      35 4        28
0'--nt.C  l''ato'  I,d.. ''dl0)               ---       388       3095      14315        50        40         20        is         I0         a         8           a
flea  E-.c'ege Rate I',d's  (1997 = 100)          100 0      96 9    125 0        92 4      92 4      97.0       9710      97 0       97 0      97 0       97.0       97 0
age'e'E-cI-a"g  Rate (At Pc- VS5$)         2.1       9 4        390      4159      5724       8322     10027      11349     12027     12526      130A5      13588
J8,Q                                  ~~~~~~~7.3  8 5      8 7        89        85         8 3       78a       7A         7 1       6 7        64A        6 4
'4'*j   S...   .Eacen-cn to Mosy (bilI.-~ AS)
Ree.'ve                                               13      (288)   4.487    3.434    4,161    4.011    ',178            8.586    9,954    11.453       12,803
L,-ct;c C"eAt                                                 158    4,148   46,440   46,686   42,227   37,227   45,000   46.520   46,924   22,110    25.758
C.t.ai  SectT,                                            (39) (72.561)(141.274)  38,605   36.918   40,658   59,562   79.155   84,209   57,720                  68,578
"...  Se,-t-'                                            197   76,707  187,714    6.261    5,309    (3,430) (14.562)1 (32,635) (37,285) (35,610)  (42.821)
Q-a. -ae                                                      141    2,090   37.722   39,308   37.957   34,807   44,589   47.071   50,528   33,651    37,862
M-t                                                            40        701   12.574   13.103   12.652   11,602   14.863   15,690   16,842    11,217               12,5584
1--t T-P                              ~~~~7 2    6 4       3 0        3 5       4 5        4 6       4 8       5 3        58a       6 3        6 3        6 3
007 (p.'Ic. -  UC517                                  80.9      87.1       64.4      91 6     102 6      101 9    104 4       109 0     116 5     124 5      133.2      142 6
a  ''-'s    f s'jaa,1F,qcal ecpenditu-ee, to the Treasury is 1990: Incledec PE 'st.e-t pay.e,,te
6. t-c-t-nt-e.  -*' - .t...at to warefcrre  credito..s  inldigiter-at(onal fsniIinatit.tiose and bonde.  eas Sa-cen,t of ODP.
ri T.a. eeac  balan,Ce as a perCent Of total '"tereat.
CC.' t-d-t'5f-e9 e.cu-ee sa fi"nacial sarket h..rtization (net of debt co-eeraion) Iese 901 of Paris Clu,b a,eorcizatos as a percentage of financial
-.''tad  -:'d-'ti4-d  ste-eat.



38                                   ANNEX II
THE STATVS OF BAFK 4RUP OPERATIONS
STATEMENr OF OAW LOANS
(As of September 30, 1990)
ARGENTINA
Fiscal                                            Amount Lose
Loon No.  Year   Borrower                  Purpose         Cancellations Undisbursed
(USS ml lIon)
Fully disbursed loans (25)                                  2,111.12
2032     1982    Yscimi;ntos               Refin-ry           200.0           0.2
Petroliferos Fiscales    Conversion
2296     1903    Argentina                 Highway            100.0           9.8
Sector
2692     1985    Yacimientos               Gas Utilization    180.0          97.9
Petroliferos Fiscales   A Tech. Assist.
2641     1988    Argentina                 Water Supply        80.0          47.3
2712     1986    Argentina                 Public Sector       18.6           4.1
Mgt.
2751     1987    Argentina                 Power Engineering   14.0           2.1
2793     1987    Argentina                 Small and Medium   126.0          81.4
Scale Ind. Credit
2806     1987    Argenbina                 Port                60.0          43.4
2815     1987    Argentina                 Trade Policy       496.3           0.4
2864     1987    Servicos Electricos      Power Dist.        276.0         240.3
2920     1988    Argentina                 Municipal DOv.     120.0         115.0
2970     1988    Banco do Ia Nacion        Agric. Credit      106.5          16.2
2984     1989    Argentina                 Social Sector       28.0          22.6
2997     1989    Argentine                 Housing Sector     300.0         284.1
2998     1989    Argentina                 Electric Power     262.0           3.8
3016     1989    Argentina                 Tax Admin. T.A.      6.6           6.2
TOTAL                                     4,444.0
of which has been repaid                  1.141.0
Total now outstanding                     3,303.0
Amount Sold              12.8
of which has been repaid                 12.8
Total now held by 8enk                    3,290.2
Total Undisbursed                                         973.8
10/24/90



39
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SuDmlementarv Loan Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                3 years
(b)  Prepared by:                          Government  of  Argentina  in
cooperation with the Bank.
.c)  First IBRD mission:                   July 1987
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:          June 1990  (Post-Appraisal Oct.
1990)
(e)  Date of negotiations:                 December 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        February 1991
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:      N.A.
Section IIs SPecial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        During negotiations the following loan conditionality was agreed
on:
Conditions of Effectiveness
-    Complete concession contract for Rosario-Bahia Blanca Cargo
Line;
-    Simultaneous effectiveness of the PEREL;
-    Continued  compliance  with  deregulation  of  crude  and
petroleum product prices (YPP prices to be compared to
international reference prices) including free imports and
exports.



41)
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.        Conditions for Release of Floating Tranches.  Both the Railway
and the Hydrocarbon Tranches are tied to the common conditions of: (a)
continued satisfactory macro performance; (b) ME implementing satisfactory
systems of performance agreements for key enterprises such as AyE, YPF,
HIDRONOR and the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Railways; (c) ME formulating
further privatization plans for enterprises in major infrastructure sectors
such as SEGBA, AGP and OSN; (d) repeal of "Compre Argentino" Law; and (e)
the Government limiting budgetary transfers to the Argentine railways to
US$350 million in 1991 and to US$250 million in 1992 and to halt all
budgetary transfers to Gas del Estado as of 1992 as evidenced in the
respective annual budget laws.
3.        The individual sectoral conditions are:
o    In respect of Railways:
-    Complete  concession contract  on Urquiza  and Mitre/San
Martin/Sarmiento cargo lines;
-    Establish separate metropolitan rail enterprise and approve
plan of subsidy reduction;
-    Agree on essential interurban passenger network;
-    Establish regulatory agency for metropolitan area as well
as the national system;
o    In respect of Hydrocarbons:
-    Set natural gas prices at 90 percent of fuel oil,  at
calorific equivalent;
-    Continued  compliance  with  deregulation  of  crude  and
petroleum product prices;
-    Complete transactions on production sharing contracts in
four YPF central areas;
-    Progress in divestiture of YPF business units;
-    Approve set-up of new YPP including a corporate structure
which permits a participation of the private sector;
-    Progress in privatizing GdE and transfer to the private
sector of 10 percent of gas production;
-    Establish regulatory agencies.



PUBLIC  TMRPRTSE REFORM ADJUSThEN? LWAi
Prlncipal Legal Re iAes Coverniino State Enter0rises
Empresas              Sociedades                                        Estata.                 Estatal                 Anonimas              Entidades
del Estado             del Estado               Economia Mixta         Mayoritaria             Minoritaria             Intervenidas           Autarquicas
Ownership          o 100X state owned.   o 100X state owned.   o Joint particip^-    o 51X or more shares  o Less than 49% of    o Ownership Is                   o 100X state
Usually formed by      Established by law    tion between pub-         held by the state.    shares held by the    transferred to the    owned.
executive decree.      or Executive             lic & private sec-    Any disposal of          state.  Any acqul-    state as a result
Capital formation      Decree.  Partici-        tors.  State can       shares entalling        sirion or disposal    of bankruptcy of
specified In the       pation of one           have majority or        loss of saLd            of shares requires    Atrategic private
enactment.             other public sec-       minority share-         majority must be        an Executive            sector.
tor entity permis-    holding,                 authorized by law.    Decree.
sible.
Management         o The Board of Dir-   o The state must          a The state appolnts  o The state exercises majority/minority           o The state appoints  o The state Ap-
ectors, President      approve all major        1i3 of the Board,      shares on Board through responsible             an administrator       points senior
6 other senior of-    managerial pro-          the Company Presi-    ministry,                                         to handle the          management.
ficers are public      posals.  Board of       dent, & internal                                                        Affairs of the
officials.  Work       Directors are all        auditors.  The ap-  o Enterprises cannot be declared bankrupt,    enterprise.
force is usually       public officials,       pointed President       The process is executed through
unlonized,                                     has the right to        administrative liquidation.
o Enterprises sub-        veto Board deci-
o Enterprises sub-        ject to control by    sions Irrespective
ject to control by    the Central Ac-          of state share-
the Sindicatura        counting Office,        holding.  Deci-
General de Empresa    Appropriate MinLs-    sions can be ap-
Pubilco (SICEP).       try responsible         pealed to a judge.
for enterprise
o Enterprises cannot    performance.           o Enterprises nor-
be declared bank-                              mally subject to
rupt.  The Execu-   o Enterprises cannot    close supervision
tive appoints a        be declared bank-       by the General Di-
liquidator 6 stip-    rupt.                    rectorate of MiIi-
ulates the *lloca-                              tary Factories.
tion of Assets.
o Enterprises cannot
be declared bank-
rupt.
Legal framwevork   o Governed by Law       o Governed by Law       o Governed by Lav       o Governed by Lay       o Governed by Law
No. 13.653.  Sub-      No. 20.705.  Pub-       No. 15.349'146.         No, 19.550.             No. 19.550.
ject to Public         llo Lav governs         Private lay gov-
Works Lav, Ac-          all public service    erns all comner-
counting Law 6 the    Activities & pri-        cial activities.                                                                                                  i;
Law of Administra-    vate law governs                                                                                                                           X
tive Procedures,       all comserial 
activities.                                                                                                                           0<



ARGENTINA
PUBUC ENTERPRISE REFORM
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILMIES
Organization Chart
JOF
t    REPI BUC lUl    STATr
AUDITOF
MINISTRY OF
DEFENSE          -  --          -M-N-PSTUCWORF
OSUB-SECRETARIAT                   SUB-SECRTARIAT 
PUBUC ENTERPRISES                    PUBLIC WORKS
SUB-SECRETARIAT                    SUB-SECRETARIAT
COO:RDINATION  |                  COMMUNJICATIONS |
SU-ERTARtIAT                  SUB-SECRETARA
4      ENE2ORY     l                     TRANSPORT l
I  PUI JC 
|ENTERPRISE
Denotes LUne Ftxhbon
-----   Denotes Cordznatlon
EKAN48217
0
I-' 



43
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 10
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTHENT LOAN
Telecommmications
SECTOR PROFILE
1.     Before privatization, Argentina's telecommunications sectorwas dominated
by the State-owned Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ENTel), serving
approximately 90Z of all public network subscribers.  ENTel had 3.2 million
telephone lines and 1,300 switching centers, making it the third largest
telephone system in Latin America. Three domestic suppliers (which have been
receiving substantial protection against direct imports from foreign suppliers),
local affiliates of Siemens, NEC, and Ericsson, provided nearly all of ENTel's
telecommunications equipment.
2.     All areas of--Argentina--except those in which the rural cooperatives
operate local networks, receive telephone, telex, data and facsimile services,
including local, long distance, and international service. Further, radio and
television networking services are provided throughout the country, as well as
maritime radio-telephone operations.
3.     At the end of 1988, there were 10 connected telephone lines per 100
persons in the country, which was well below the level for OECD countries but
above the average for Latin American countries.  By international standards,
however, Argentine telecommunications services have been inadequate for many
years. Over the past decade, telephone service (lines connected) grew at the
relatively slow rate of 5 p.a. Unmet demand is currently estimated at over one
million lines, which is equivalent to one-third of all lines in service; the
waiting time to install a new telephone line is now typically 3 to 4 years. To
overcome the shortage of lines in downtown Buenos Aires, users have strung a web
of unauthorized wires between buildings.
4.     Telephone service is of poor quality and notoriously unreliable.  Only
47Z of all urban call attempts and 232 of all long-distance call attempts were
completed in 1988, compared to about 7OZ for a well developed system.   The
existing system is neither large nor modern enough to handle the volume ot ca.ls
being placed.   More than half of the urban switching technology is of the
electro-mechanical variety (dating from the 1960s), while another 30? uses step-
by-step technology dating from the 1950s. Over 40? of the telephone lines in the
Buenos Aires region are more than 20 years old. Although comprehensive data are
not available, lines apparently average about four reported faults per line
annually, compared with about 0.5 ir developed systems. Moreover, the average
repair time of about 3-5 days in Buenos Aires and 15-25 days elsewhere is quite
slow compared to 1 day in a good system.



44
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 10
II. REFORM PROGRAM
5.     The Menem Government has adopted a new telecommunications reform strategy
that centers on the privatization of ENTel. The objectives of the reform are to
expand rapidly the availability of telephone service, and to improve the quality
of service. Privatization is to solve the problems of lack of investment funds,
restrictions on competitive entry; inefficient labor; inadequate management; and
political intrusions into business decisions.
6.     The "Ley de Reforma del Estado" passed in August 1989, formally declared
ENTel to be subject to privatization. Subsequently, the Government issued an
Implementation Decree in September 1989 (No. 731/89).   This decree set out
guidelines for the privatization of ENTel through an international public tender.
Under the guidelines, licenses to provide basic telephone service under exclusive
rights, would be awarded to regional operators, the privately-owned successors
to ENTel. The exclusive rights were to be temporary and, on expiry, would be
replaced by a system of open competition. The guidelines also required that the
provision of non-basic services and terminal equipment were to be fully open to
competition.
7.     The terms and conditions for the international public tender included
detailed specifications for:
(a) the division of the telephone network into two regions;
(b) the definition of basic service;
(c) the granting of temporary exclusive rights to provide basic service;
and
(d) the determination of tariffs and their verification by the competent
authority.
Restructuring of ENTel
8.     ENTel is to be restructured into four separate entities:
(a) two regional operating companies which will each be licensed to
provide basic telephone service within specified geographic areas;
(b) One company, which will be licensed to provide international
telephone, telex, data an( leased satellite circuits under temporary
exclusive rights and will also take over the national satellite
service provided by ENTel;
(c) One company for which will be licensed to provide "value added
services" such as national telex and data services and maritime
mobile radio under competitive conditions.



45
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 10
9.     Each of these entities is required to have Articles of Association which
limit its activities to the provision of those telecommunications services for
which it holds licenses and prevent it from being domiciled outside Argentina.
10.    Two regional operators of approximately the same size would be created
by division of the country (Buenos Aires would be divided along the Avenida
Cordoba) into North and South Regions. The regional operators would initially
share the ownership of the *international" and the "value added services"
companies.
11.    Subject to approval of a new Regulatory Authority, the international
company may be dissolved with each regional operator providing international
service on its own within its licensed area. On expiry of exclusive rights, the
regional operators can propose other bases for the provision of international
services. In the case of the "value-added services" company, the assignment or
transfer of shares will only be subject to whatever general provisions are in
force for companies providing telecommunications services which are open to
competition.
12.    Creation of two regional operators of approximately equal size provides
a basis for future comparisons of performance in terms of efficiency and service
quality. Given the need for grate improvements in performance, the ability to
make such comparisons is likely to be of considerable value to the new Regulatory
Authority. In the longer term, on expiry of the temporary exclusive rights, each
of the regional operators will be eligible for licenses to provide
telecommunications facilities and services outside their designated regions.
This threat of entry by a well positioned competitor should provide an important
incentive throughout the period when exclusive rights are in force for the
regional operators to develop the coverage of their networks and to improve
efficiency and service quality. For these reasons, provided collusion between
the operators can be avoided, the benefits of regional division of the network
appear to outweigh concerns that it would lead to higher operating and overhead
costs.
13.    The  arrangements  for  shared  ownership  of  the  company  providing
international services by the regional operators reflect an assumption that
international services will be the key source of revenues for cross-subsidisation
of other services during the period of temporary exclusive rights. While such
cross-subsidies should be eliminated by competition in the longer term, they are
likely to be necessary to ensure that the expansion and improvement of the
domestic network can be financed by the regional operators following the
privatization  of  ENTel.    (An  alternative  would  have  been  to  sell  the
international operation separately and to achieve the necessary cross-subsidies
through access charges. However, this would have set up strong pressures for
bypass of the domestic networks, which might result in erosion of the cross-
subsidies and piecemeal network development).



46
ANNEX VI
Page 4 to 10
14.    The shared ownership of "value-added services" is a practical means of
achieving structural separation of those activities that will be subject to
temporary exclusive rights after privatization and those that will be open to
competition. To have separated the 'value added services' company into North and
South Regions would have lead to unnecessary duplication of facilities and
possibly to lower functionality in the services provided between the Regions.
Exclusive Rights
15.    Following an initial two year period for reorganization and coordination
of service provision, the regional operators will be granted exclusive rights to
provide telephone service for a five year period. Subject to meeting targets for
network expansion and service quality and abiding by rules for regulating basic
service tariffs, the regional operators will be able to obtain a three year
extension of these exclusive rights. Thus, their exclusive rights may last a
maximum of ten years.
16.    For the purposes of granting exclusive rights to the regional operators,
basic telephone service is defined as the supply of fixed links that form part
of the public telephone network or are connected to that network, together with
the provision of live voice urban, interurban and international telephone
service. The boundaries of the network, which define the limits of the exclusive
rights, are at the distribution box of properties with internal cabling, and at
the connector between the drop wire and the inside wire in other properties.
17.    The definition of basic service is to provide a necessary measure of
protection to their revenues and prevent uncoordinated proliferation of network
facilities during the period in which the public networks are being expanded and
improved.  Revenue protection requires the definition to cover voice service
whilst network development objectives justify the inclusion of all fixed
telecommunications links forming the network or connected to it within the scope
of basic service. At the same time the coverage of the exc!usive rights allows
full scope for competitive supply of customer premises equipment, inside wiring
and value-added services provided over the public network infrastructure. The
definition should be relatively simple for the Regulatory Authority to apply in
practice, although increasing service integration may make the distinction
between voice and data increasingly difficult to police effectively.
18.    In certain local areas of Argentina, telephone service is provided by
independent operators.   These  independent operators will also be granted
exclusive rights to provide basic service in the areas they serve, so long as
they conform to the conditions and targets for service provision.
19.    Within the broad objective that the regional operators should improve
service availability, independent operators may have an important role to play
in extending network coverage to areas that the regional operator is unable or
unwilling to serve. To secure this role for independent operators, provision is
made for interested parties to submit plans to the Regulatory Authority to
provide local telephone service in unserved areas more than 15 kilometres from



47
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 10
a primary exchange.   If the regional operator is unwilling to provide such
service within the same timescale (or within a 12 month period if this is
shorter), then the independent operator will be licensed and granted exclusive
rights for the remainder of the period applicable to the regional operators.
20.    Similar arrangements apply where the regional operators are unable or
unwilling to provide point-to-point connections for a customer's own use.
Private supply of such connections, which may not be used for resale or third
party service provision, will be authorized if the regional operator is unable
to supply them within the basic rate zones within 60 days or within 180 days
elsewhere.
21.    A further exception to the coverage of the exclusive rights of the
regional operators concerns the provision of domestic data transmission by
satellite. Five permits for such services were issued in 1989, and additional
operators may be granted licenses once the successful bidders have taken
possession of the regional operations.
22.    The exceptions to the coverage of the exclusive rights of the regional
operators appear to provide reasonable safeguards against lack of supply of
services by the regional operators under circumstances in which others are
willing and able to provide the services.
23.    The International Company is to act as a carrier's carrier, through which
the regional operators are to conduct all international service provision. The
exclusive rights cover international telephone data and telex services.   In
addition, where point-to-point satellite circuits have previously been leased for
the provision of data transmission and value added services, they will also come
within the scope of the exclusive rights but on the existing usage conditions.
24.    The relatively broad coverage of the exclusive rights granted to the
International Company reflects a judgement as to the balance between protection
of the regional operator's revenues from international services and the provision
of competitive incentives for improved performance. Provided reasonable service
quality can be assured through performance  targets,  then the gains  from
competitive pressures on international service provision may be small.   In
particular, the scope for productivity improvements and other cost savings in
international service is likely to be limited compared with that in regional
operations.   Furthermore, some incentive for performance improvement will be
provided by the prospect of competitive entry on expiry of the exclusive rights.
Competitive Market Structure
25.    Services which are not subject to exclusive rights are to be open to
competition, subject to the granting of a licence by the new Regulatory
Authority. Where provision of a service requires the use of radio spectrum or
other scarce medium, the licence is to be granted by public bidding.



48
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 10
Installation of telecommunications facilities and systems requires an
authorization from the Regulatory Authority, which is also responsible for
certification of equipment for attachment to the public networks.
26.    During the period in which exclusive rights are in force, the regional
operators can only provide services that are open to competition. The regional
operators and the Internationsl Company are not permitted to supply customer
premises equipment; where an affiliate supplies such equipment it may not share
facilities.
27.     Once the exclusive  rights have  lapsed,  the regional operators  are
eligible for licenses to provide data and value added services and for the
provision of basic telephone service outside their designated Regions.
Similarly, licenses for other international telecommunications services may be
provided.
28.    The   required   structural   separation  between   the  provision   of
telecommunications services under exclusive rights and the competitive supply of
other services and customer premises equipment appears to be appropriate as one
of a number of measures to safeguard the development of competition in the
sector. Whilst it may lead to some loss of economies of scope, the requirement
seems particularly necessary given that the period during which exclusive rights
will apply, could be as long as ten years.
29.     Cellular mobile communications service poses a particular problem in that
there are, at present, only two bands available. It was felt it would not be
conducive to effective competition in this situation for the first band to be
awarded to a regional operator, whether or not the area to be served was within
that operator's Region. On the other hand, it was also felt that the regional
operators should not be excluded from the use of this increasingly important
technology. For this reason, the regional operators are entitled to be awarded
the second band during the second year after the first band is awarded. Should
an initial bidding process for the first band fail to result in the award of a
license, then the regional operators can compete in a subsequent bidding process
for that band.
Ownership
30.     The objective is to sell 602 of common stock to the regional operators.
The remaining stock would be sold to employees, the telephone cooperatives and
the public, resulting in no remaining state participation and the following
ownership structure:
Operator groups         60Z
Employees               lOx
Cooperatives             5f
Public                  25f



49
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 10
31.     Key to the success of the privatization is the take-over by well
qualified operators. Eleven operators were prequalified with regard to their
financial status and the size and operational performance of the networks they
operate. Operators would be awarded a management contract with full operational
powers.   Termination of the management contract without the approval of the
Regulatory Authority is grounds for lapsing of the regional company's license.
In addition, the regional operators would appoint an operator to be responsible
for the international services who may be one or both of them or a third party.
Service Obligations
32.      Detailed service obligations will apply to the regional operators and
the International Company during the period in which exclusive rights are in
force.   Additional service targets must be met to qualify for a three year
extension of the exclusive rights.
33.     The first set of service obligations for the regional operators relate
to improved access to telecommunications services through the achievement of
targets for increases in:
(a) the number of exchange connections by province;
(b) the number of public and semi-public telephones by province; and
(c' the number of locations served by public and semi-public telephones.
34.    Achievement of the mandatory targets for exchange connections would
result in an increase in the number of connections of 1.23 million from 1991 to
1996 inclusive  (which is 38Z of the current total).   However,  for the two
regional operators -oth to qualify for a further three years of exclusive rights,
the total increase i.' connections from 1991 to 1996 would have to be at least
1.60 million (49Z of the current total).  The two sets of targets for public and
semi-public telephones similarly have mandatory targets to be achieved during the
period of exclusive rights and higher targets which would have to be achieved to
qualify for an extension of that period.
35.     To help to secure the role of the independent operators in providing
local service, the exchange connections added by the independent operator can
count towards the achievement of the targets for the designated region where the
independent operator provides local service. However, this only applies if the
regional operator provides and, if necessary expands, the connection links
between the networks.
36.    A second set of service obligations for the regional operators relate to
network performance. These comprise targets for bringing down the percentages
of calls of different types that are not completed and the incidence of faults
in external and internal plant in the local network. The targets for uncompleted
calls are aimed at securing reductions in failures due to network congestion and
equipment faults (although for measurement reasons the targets for inter-regional
calls cover calls that are uncompleted for any reason).   To qualify for an
extension to the period of exclusive rights, these mandatory targets for 1996
must be exceeded by 5%.



50
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 10
37.    A third set of service obligations for the regional operators measure
certain aspects of customer service.   These are concerned with the speed to
answer of operator services, average fault repair times and average waiting times
for subscriber installations. Again, the mandatory targets for 1996 have to be
exceeded by 5X to qualify for an extension to the period of exclusive rights.
38.    In addition to the obligations represented by these targets for service
availability and quality, the regional operators are obliged to provide free
calls to the emergency services and free telephone directories. They are also
obliged to provide a directory information service, but this can be charged for.
39.    In the case of international services, there are general obligations not
to disconnect any of the population from the national satellite service, not to
reduce the current service capacity without the approval of the regulatory
authority and to provide the regional operators with adequate capacity. More
specifically, there are mandatory targets for the percentage of international
calls that are uncompleted and a requirement that the 1996 target be bettered by
at least 5% to qualify for an extension to the period of exclusivity.
Interconnection
40.    The terms and conditions for the international public tender contain
extensive  requirements  relating  to  interconnection.    In part,  these  are
necessitated by the division of the network between the two regional operators
and the International Company.   For operational reasons,  the two regional
operators will initially share ownership of the Buenos Aires automatic inter-
urban exchange, which handles traffic to and from the rest of the country and
through which most North-South routes pass. The regional operators will also
commence with many local exchanges in Buenos Aires directly across their regional
boundary.
Price Regulation
41.    The regulation of the general level of basic service tariffs during the
period of exclusive rights is based on a price cap approach after the two year
period allowed for reorganization and coordination of service provision. During
the five year period of exclusive rights, the maximum permitted increase in the
general level of tariffs each year is two percentage points below the rate of
consumer price inflation. If the three year extension to the exclusive rights
is obtained, then the overall level of prices for basic service has to be held
at least four percentage points below the rate of consumer price inflation in
each of the three years.
42.     In view of the apparently large imbalances in profitability between
services, it was felt necessary to add some further constraints on price
increases.    Firstly,  the  price  caps  apply  separately  to  domestic  and
international services, so that rate reductions in the highly profitable
international services cannot be traded-off costlessly against increased tariffs
for domestic services (which are less profitable and possibly less vulnerable



51
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 10
to competition once the exclusive rights lapse). Secondly, to qualify for an
extension to the period of exclusive rights, the regional operators must be able
to show that they have only applied real increases to the residential line rental
to the extent necessary to halve the imbalance with the business line rental.
During the period of extension of exclusive rights, real increases in the
residential line rental can only be made to the extent necessary to eliminate the
remaining imbalance with the business line rental.
43.    Prior to the coming into force of the price regulation arrangements
outlined above, the regional operators are allowed to index all basic service
tariffs in line with the rate of consumer price inflation. This applies during
the two year period allowed for reorganization and coordination of service
provision. However, in view of uncertainty as to the inherited profitability of
the regional operators, there is also a provision for them to make real increases
in basic service prices during this two year period (at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months).
If such real increases are made, however, the regional operator is then subject
to a limit of 16Z on the real return earned on fixed assets.
44.    For independent operators, prices for basic service are to be regulated
through a requirement that they bill local, interurban and international calls
at rates no higher than those of the regional operators.
45.    A particular feature of the inherited price structure is the Megatel plan
which requires customers registering for service to make a large payment (by
installments). During the period of exclusive rights the regional operators will
only be allowed to recover half the direct costs of providing a line for Family
Service and the whole cost for other lines. This direct cost of connecting a new
subscriber to the network includes "through the network" costs of additional
capacity provided beyond the connection in the subscriber's exchange. For the
first two years the recovery of connection costs can either be made through a
final charge or through the issue of a debt instrument denominated in dollars.
For the remainder of the period of exclusive rights, only the issue of debt
instrument is allowed. After the period of exclusive rights has ended, charges
for connection must correspond with those found in mature networks.
46.    Prices of services open to competition are not to be regulated.   On
lapsing of exclusive rights, the Regulatory Authority will only have powers to
regulate prices for those services and in those geographic areas in which
competition is ineffective.
47.    The arrangements for the regulation of the price of basic service had to
be compiled with little reliable financial information available or likely to
become available in the near term.  The arrangements thus attempt to provide
significant upside potential for investors with reasonable reassurance to
customers that prices will fall somewhat in real terms after privatization,
provided the inherited rate of return is reasonable.



52
ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 10
Regulatory Authority
48.     The government has  also concluded that an effective and reputable
regulatory regime is necessary to support the telecommunications sector reform
program.   In particular,  regulatory capability will be required to enforce
provisions of the ENTel sale concerning tariffs, levels of service and
competitive behavior. A new regulatory Authority (National Telecommunications
Conmission - NTC) has already been established under the direction of the
Ministry of Public Works. A Board of Directors consisting of five members has
also been appointed.  To ensure consistency over time in the exercise of the
Regulatory Authority's powers, the members of the board will end their terms of
office on a staggered basis every two years.
49.      The main functions of the NTC will be to:
(a) monitor, analyze and approve or reject tariff proposals;
(b) review financial projections of service providers and develop and
NTC financial model of the regional operating companies to forecast
rates of return and other financial indicators;
(c)  review  methodologies   and  estimate  the  costs  of  providing
telecommunications service;
(d) establish performance indicators and systems to monitor results;
(e) assess the operating companies' investment program, depreciation and
procurement policies;
(f) establish, monitor and enforce technical standards for networks
(including national fundamental technical plans) and terminal
equipment;
(g) operate modern administrative systems for both externally oriented
needs (e.g., processing of license applications, regulatory
proceedings) and internal requirements (e.g., personnel, finance
supplies);
(h) provide in-house legal advice and undertake legal actions in support
of its operations; and
(i) establish and maintain information systems to support the operations
of NTC.
50.    To assist in the achievement of independence, the NTC will be funded
through a 0.5Z charge on net income resulting from the operations in the North
and South. On the basis of ENTel's current profitability, this amounts to about
US$7 million per annum.



53
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 6
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Railways (Ferrocarriles Argentinos - FA)
I. PROFILE
(a) Organizational Setting
1.   Ferrocarriles Argentinos  (FA),  is the major provider of railway
services in Argentina; the only other provider is the underground metro
services in Buenos Aires. FA serves three distinct markets: (i) freight
services accounting for about 48% of revenues; (ii) intercity passenger
services with about 17Z of revenues; and (iii) Buenos Aires suburban
passenger services accounting for 30% of revenues. 1  FA is actually a
confederation of  six  railroads  (lines),  originally  owned by various
British, French and Argentine consortiums, but acquired by the Government
in the mid-1940s.  The table below provides an overall indication of the
history and magnitude of operations of the lines:
Line Name      Length    1988 Revenues       Gauge       Year      Original
(Km)       (US$ mill)        (mm)       Founded  Investors
Belgrano       10,841           65.9         1000        1877      Arg/Fr/Br
Urquiza          2,770          24.7         1435         1866     Arg/Br
Roca             6,697          59.9         1676        1865      Arg/Br
Mitre            5,485          56.9         1676         1863     Br/Fr
San Martin      4,563           44.8         1676        1873      Arg/Br
Sarmiento       3,759           30.0         1676        1857      Arg/Br
Initially, these line operated with relative independence.  In the 1950s
and 1960s lines were progressively consolidated, but without altering the
structure of the lines so that until this date many duplicate services
exist.
(b) Performance
2.   FA's operating and financial performance has been extremely poor.
FA's deficits have led the Government to provide subsidies to cover
operating costs -- over US$500 million annua.ly during the last five years.
For example, in 1987, operating expenses far exceeded revenues (total
revenues - US$232 million) and net losses totalled US$972 million. A major
cause of FA's losses is the very low labor productivity (between one-third
and one-half of other major Latinamerican railways) resulting in a wage
bill which has persistently exceeded total revenues for the last 15 years.
'The remaining 5Z of revenues are related to miscellaneous revenues.



54
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 6
Preliminary analysis indicates that FA could reduce its labor force of
84,000 employees by 30 to 50 percent without affecting output.  Lack of
funds for maintenance and renewal of equipment have led to poor and
unreliable services, and this in turn has resulted in declining traffic
services,  thus creating a vicious circle.   Freight traffic has fallen
steadily from about 15 billion ton-kilometers in 1970 to less than 9
billion ton-kilometers in 1988. In the same period, in spite of very low
and declining real tariff levels, passenger traffic declined from 7 to 6
billion passenger-kilometers for Buenos Aires metropolitan passengers and
from 5 to 4 billion passenger-kilometers for interurban passengers.
(c) Problem Areas
3.   Since its creation, FA has essentially been run as an employment and
social service provider. Management has typically responded to political
directives, labor union demands and pressures from local authorities - not
to commercial business considerations. Specific problem areas include: (a)
duplication of services between the six railroad lines which have continued
to resist consolidation; (b) use of excessive labor, driven by labor union
interference in management decisions, a political and management bias for
labor peace, and work rules which are at odds with productivity
improvements; (c) continued operation of unprofitable services based on
political objectives imposed by local authorities; (d) poor allocation of
locomotives, usually politically driven, which has resulted in the
deterioration of potentially profitable (mainly cargo) services and
declining market share; (e) inefficient rolling stock maintenance
operations which has significantly reduced their availability; and (f)
procurement restrictions and high import tariffs, which make some
materials, particularly locomotives and locomotive spare parts, exceedingly
expensive and not available when needed.   As the government's fiscal
problems have mounted, it has tried to stem FA's losses by curtailing
investment and lowering real salaries, as well as staff reductions. The
first two types of measures have resulted in further declines in FA's
service levels which combined with unremunerative tariff levels, have
perpetuated the deficit. These problems have a large negative impact on
the economy: apart from aggravating the fiscal deficit they cause costly
dislocations to Argentina's transport system as consumers are virtually
forced to use more expensive modes of transport (e.g., trucks to transport
bulk commodities over long distances) but must still pay indirectly through
their taxes for the rail system.
II. REFORM STRATEGY
(a) New Strategic Approach
4.   Diagnostic.  The main factors conditioning the reform strategy of FA
are:
(i)       The Government does not have the financial capacity to
continue subsidizing FA's deficit, nor to make new
investments in its operations;



55
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 6
(ii)      it  would  be  impossible  to  improve  FA's  existing
organizational structure;
(iii)     railway freight transport has favorable market perspectives;
(iv)     metropolitan passenger service in Buenos Aires, although not
profitable, has a positive economic impact as a provider of
mass transport;
(v)       FA's labor force is greatly overdimensioned, requiring a
major reduction of staff which should be developed taking
into account social and political considerations.
S.   Strategy.  Based on the Law of Reform of the State, the Government
issued    an    implementation    decree    (3145/89)    for    the
restructuring/privatization of FA on September 1, 1989. After considering
various options for restructuring FA, the Government decided on a strategy
that aims at dividing FA into various business segments and concessioning
potentially profitable portions of FA's network to private companies. Most
of FA's operational responsibilities would be transferred to private
enterprises, with FA maintaining only services required by the Government
as well as the management of its excess real estate and assets. Major
elements of the reform program include the followings
(i)       Franchise to the private sector all profitable services,
including cargo networks, interurban passenger services,
railway workshops and rolling-stock;
(ii)      reorganize Buenos Aires metropolitan passenger services,
separating it from FA and forming a new company and
establish a regional authority with city and provincial
participation to coordinate and oversee suburban operations;
(iii)     close all unprofitable, noncritical services, including most
interurban services and excess plants and develop or sell
FA's (considerable) real estate holdings; and
(iv)      modify working rules and regulations in order to allow for
clauses to increase productivity and implement a labor
reduction program.
A Technical Unit has been formed within FA to carry on the restructuring
process. Contractual aspects are being managed with the assistance of the
Subsecretariat of Public Works in the Ministry of Public Works.
6.   Cargo Concessions.  The existing FA network, with the exception of
Buenos Aires metropolitan services and the line from Buenos Aires to Mar
del Plata (mainly passenger services) are being divided into business



56
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 6
segments to be operated as cargo concessions.  These segments are being
identified based on the following criteria:   (i) the operations must
control most of their traffic base; (ii) the traffic should be broad based
and diversified; and (iii) the rail systems should have the same gauge.
The following cargo configurations have been targetted by the Government:
(i)       Rosario-Bahia Blanca, destined mainly for grain transport
from production areas to the Bahia Blanca port and
eventually to Rosario.  This segment is formed from parts
of the Roca, Mitre and Sarmiento lines and it will require
major investments.  Its length is about 5,300 kilometers,
with estimated revenues of US$8.3 million per year.
Consultants estimated, based on capacity and market
potential, that concessionaires operating this segment could
increase traffic by over 2002 during the next ten years,
which would make the operation profitable. This concession
has been awarded to a consortium headed by Techint (see also
Railway map).
(ii)      Urquiza, a standard gauge line, which transports mainly
granite, wood products and grains, operating in the
Northeast, with interchanges to Paraguay and Uruguay. Its
length is about 3,100 kilometers, with revenues of about
US$14.3 million per year. Its potential could allow it to
increase revenues by about 702. The bidding process for its
concessioning was initiated in August 1990 and a pre-award
to a consortium headed by Pescarmona was made in November
1990.
(iii)     The remainder of the Roca line, not included in the Rosario-
Bahia Blanca concession, which serves locations to the South
of Buenos Aires, transporting mainly chemicals, building
materials and minerals.   It has a length of about 5,100
kilometers, with revenues of about US$15.9 million per year.
Currently a money losing operation, this line would need to
undergo  major  restructuring  before  a  concession  is
established including possible closures of some of its
segments.
(iv)      Belgrano  (a  narrow  gauge  line),  which  represents  an
extensive network of about 8,400 kilometers, much of it with
very light traffic density. It serves most of the area in
the quadrant to the Northwest of Buenos Aires with
interchanges to Bolivia and Chile, and has a diversified
commodity base composed of minerals, building materials,
petroleum products and grains with total estimated revenues
of about US$2.8 million per year.   This  line appears
financially viable, due to its size and very high investment
requirements  for its upgrading.   An  analysis will  be
undertaken to evaluate its possible concessioning into two



57
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 6
or three independent segments as well as the closure of
unprofitable parts of the network.
(v)       the remainder of the Mitre and Sarmiento lines not included
in the Rosario-Bahia Blanca network plus the San Martin
line, covers mainly the Mendoza, C6rdoba and Buenos Aires
areas to the west of Buenos Aires.   This network has a
length of about 10,000 kilometers, with estimated revenues
of US$62.3 million per year, mainly from transport of
minerals, grains, petroleum products and foods. Although
it would require considerable investment in locomotives and
track rehabilitation, this network should be attractive to
private sector operators due to its potential profitability.
Because of its size and segmentation of markets, this
network would be concessioned as two independent segments.
7.   Interurban  Passenger  Services.    The  Government  plans  to  cut
drastically all interurban passenger services, since inost of them are
highly unprofitable: total revenues for these services are only about US$55
million per year while net operating losses (excluding depreciation and
capital charges) amount to about US$65 million per year.  Only selected
services considered critical would be maintained under explicit diminishing
subsidy arrangements. The process involves the following steps:
(i)       Establish an interurban services unit to manage the review
process, effect the service reductions, and begin the
restructuring process;
(ii)      review costs for each service, identifying cost reduction
possibilities, and classifying operations into those that
cover marginal costs and those which do not;
(iii)     identify critical services, approving the continuation only
of those for which beneficiaries (e.g., provincial and local
governments) are willing to provide a subsidy, while a
cutoff date would be established for all other unprofitable
services;
(iv)      privatize the operation of the Mar del Plata line (the only
potentially profitable interurban passenger service) as a
concession;
(v)       promote private operations for other potentially attractive
interurban services;
(vi)      facilitate initial agreements between interurban operators
and cargo infrastructure concessionaires;
(vii)     arrange  and  channel  funding  for  subsidizing  critical
nonprofitable services and tender such services to



58
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6
private-sector operators through the interurban services
unit; and
(viii)    close down all noncritical unprofitable interurban services.
8.   Suburban Services.  Suburban services required in excess of US$150
million per year in operating subsidies alone (1984-1988 average), with
capital subsidies also required for investment programs such as
electrification and new equipment. These services are considered critical
by the Government as they provide essential transportation for the work
force within the Greater Buenos Aires area. Therefore, the Government's
strategy  is to maintain  the  services,  while  reducing costs  through
institutional changes, major restructuring and efficiency improvements.
Given the different management and financial requirements of suburban
services with respect to other railway operations, the former would be
restructured and transformed into an independent operation, Ferrocarriles
Metropolitanos (FM). Its creation involves two stages: (i) the formation
of a separate management unit within FA, detaching the corresponding
operations from the existing FA lines; and (ii) the establishment of a
separate  enterprise.    The  suburban unit within PA would begin  the
restructuring process implementing measures to improve revenue control,
pricing and fare structures, and rationalizing services including the
closing of redundant stations and reduction of staff.   Given that FM
operations would rely on national, and eventually local government
subsidies, a Metropolitan Rail Authority would be created to ensure that
the services offered are consistent with the policy framework.   The
Metropolitan Rail Authority would be limited initially to suburban railway
services but could be vested at a later stage with policy authority over
the subway (Buenos Aires metro lines) and bus systems.



59
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 10
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Hydrocarbons
SECTOR PROFILE
(a) Organizational Setting
1.    The Argentine State is the predominant player in the hydrocarbon sector.
The two key enterprises are Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) and Gas del
Estado (GdE). In November 1990, YPF accounted for (i) the direct production of
65Z of total crude oil (35% of the production was contracted out to the private
sector), (ii) more than 802 of natural gas production, (iii) all pipeline,
storage,  shipping, port and related infrastructure,  (iv) about 70% of the
country's refining capacity, and (v) about 50% of petroleum product distributior.
and sales in Argentina. YPF has held the petroleum rights to most sedimentary
areas of Argentina and has administered more than 80 contracts with private-
sector investors for exploration and production.   Until recently, YPF was
obligated to purchase all petroleum produced by its contractors and was obligated
to supply crude to the private refiners at prices, often significantly below
YPF's cost. YPF was required to sell all natural gas to GdE, generally below
cost. Initially, YPF's function was to develop Argentina's hydrocarbon resources
to achieve self-sufficiency, but it soon became a cash cow for the government and
special interest groups. Until recently, GdE had a virtual monopoly on natural
gas distribution in Argentina.
2.    Resources.  The potential energy resources of Argentina are abundant and
diverse, including crude oil, natural gas, hydropower, biomass and coal. Recent
technical evaluations indicate, however, that the hydrocarbon reserves are not
as large as had been estimated.  Thus, proved oil reserves have been revised
downward by 37% to 224 million m3 (1.41 billion barrels), and natural gas
reserves have been revised downwards by 20Z to 554 billion iS.  At current
production rates of about 71,000 m3lday (447,000 B/D) for crude oil and 62
million m3/day for natural gas, the reserve/production ratio for crude oil is 8
years and for natural gas 20 years. Further exploration needs to be promoted as
it will become increasingly difficult to supply future demand for liquid
hydrocarbons from known sources and the apparent large potential for additional
gas discoveries needs to be confirmed.
3.    Demand.   Crude oil and natural gas account for about 50% and 331,
respectively, of gross energy consumed in Argentina. Energy consumption growth
in Argentina has been unusually high compared to other countries of similar GDP
level and structure. Income elasticity of final demand was 1.5 in the 1960s and
1.2 in the 1970s.  During 1980-85, final energy consumption was stationary while
GDP fell about 1.5% per year. Per capita energy consumption of 10 barrels of oil
equivalent per year is now almost double that of neighboring Chile and Uruguay.
From 1970 to 1986, the share of consumption of energy for residential,



60
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 10
agricultural and non-energy uses increased, while industrial and transport shares
decreased.   As natural gas reserves have been discovered and developed, the
patterns of energy consumption have changed, mainly toward certain refined
products and natural gas. The share of natural gas in final energy consumption
increased from 15% in 1970 to 28% in 1982 and 33% by 1988.  Natural gas has
essentially replaced fuel oil, both in general industry and in electricity
generation. As a consequence, the share of fuel oil in final energy consumption
declined from almost 30% in 1970 to less than 82 by 1982, dropping to 42 in 1988.
Meanwhile, participation of hydroelectricity increased from 8.5Z in 1970 to 12Z
in 1982, while other petroleum products decreased approximately 2X over the same
period--all of them remaining basically unchanged in their share of consumption
from 1982 to 1988.   Argentina essentially has remained self-sufficient  in
hydrocarbons, importing and exporting some petroleum products on the margin.
(b) Performance of YPF and GdE
4.    YPF Operations.  YPF operates as a state enterprise (Sociedad del Estado),
with the Government as the only shareholder and a corporate structure similar to
a private corporation. YPF's annual gross sales, excluding excise taxes, were
between US$4.0 and US$4.5 billion during 1986 to 1988. Investment in exploration
and development between 1986-89 was set at US$3.7 billion, with 792 exploration
wells planned; however, actual investment was limited to US$2.2 billion and only
387 exploratory wells were drilled. YPF plays a dominant role in the refinery
business, accounting for 62% of topping capacity and 682 of bottom conversion
capacity.   Although YPF's  refining operations have moved to higher value
production, there is further scope to improve yields, efficiencv and
profitability.
5.    YPF Finances.   YPF's  financial structure  shows net fixed assets  in
operations of about US$7 billion and current assets of US$1.1 billion. YPF has
a financial debt of US$4.5 billion to foreign banks, most of which was incurred
on behalf of the government for balance-of-payment purposes.  This debt is offset
in YPF's balance sheet by a government bond whose coupons are used to servicing
this debt. Taking into account the Government bond, YPF's debt-equity ratio has
been under 0.11.
6.    YPF Transfers.  YPF has been used as a source of Treasury financing with
disregard of the financial soundness of the company. In addition to taxes and
royalties paid to the Treasury, YPF has subsidized the operations of other PEs
through Government-controlled transfer prices. Table I illustrates the complex
nature of the financial relationship between YPF, the Treasury, and other
government entities. Including taxes and royalties there was a net transfer of
US$1 billion from YPF to other parts of the government in 1988.



61
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 10
Table I: FINANCIAL RELATIONSHIP OF YPF AND GOVERNMENT IN 1988
(millions of US$)
YPF Payments and
Subsidies to Govt.                  Govt. Payments to YPF
Taxes and Royalties:
Tax on refined crude         168
IVA and other taxes          205
Royalties                    710               Royalties          451
Sub-total                 1083
Subsidies Due to Low Transfer Price on:
Crude                        146
Natural gas                  194
Other subsidies to YCF
and GdE                       40
Sub-total                  390
Total                     1473                   Total          451
7.    GdE Operations.  GdE was established in 1946 as a state enterprise to
provide natural gas as a public service. GdE purchases 902 of its natural gas
from YPF in producing areas located primarily in the provinces of Neuquen,
Chubut, Santa Cruz, Rio Negro, Salta, and the National Territory of Tierra del
Fuego. The remainder is imported from Bolivia. From the producing areas, GdE
processes the natural gas to remove hydrates and heavier liquids, and then
transports the natural gas to consuming centers from where it is distributed to
the individual end-users.  In addition to the sale of natural gas, GdE also
produces and markets LPG (propane and butane) and subproducts such as ethane and
natural gasoline. GdE is basically a transporter of natural gas and does not
transform natural gas into other products.
8.    GdE Finances.  GdE had aggregate operating losses of about US$650 million
in 1985-1988, albeit with a declining trend. The company managed to keep its
costs under control: Calculated in US dollars, wages and benefits rose only 4Z
during 1985-87, and costs of supplies and services were reduced by 402 in
1987188. GdE's net fixed assets increased by US$1.2 billion from 1985 to 1988
and long-term debt rose from US$281 million in 1985 to over US$2 billion in 1988.
This caused the debt-equity ratio to climb from 0.18 to 0.60. The current ratio
improved from 0.28 to 0.59 between 1985 and 1988, but still remained
unsatisfactory.



62
ANX VIII
Page 4 of 10
(c) Problem Areas
9.    Overview.  Argentina is running out of crude oil.  The trend of declining
production and reserves will accelerate unless investment in exploration and
development is expanded sharply. Because of distorting regulations, neither the
public nor private sectors have been in a position to invest as much as needed
nor have they had the incentives to invest in the most efficient way.  If present
trends continue, foreign exchange requirements from hydrocarbon imports will
accelerate rapidly.  While proven natural gas reserves are adequate to meet
demand for the foreseeable future, regional supply shortages are predicted unless
bottlenecks in transport and distribution systems are removed and waste in
doL.estic consumption of energy is reduced. The dilemmas facing the petroleum
sector have resulted from a combination of factors includings (i) sector
regulations; (ii) government interference; (iii) petroleum product pricing; (iv)
gas pricing; (v) taxes and royalty payments; (vi) trade regime; (vii)lack of
commercial orientation of YPF and GdE.
10.   Sector Regulations.  YPF and GdE have possessed broad monopolistic rights
in the purchase, sale and transport of crude oil and natural gas. Until recently
YPF held the petroleum rights to most oil-likely areas of Argentina and private
sector involvement was possible only as a risk contractor to YPF. YPF and GdE
have been not only the key participants in the sector, but also the regulators
of their private sector competitors.   These regulations have had no adverse
effect on private sector profitability; just the reverse, they have resulted in
a misallocation of resources.   It is estimated that Compre Argentino ("Buy
Argentine') has increased the costs of supplies and services provided by the
local private sector to YPF by an aggregate of more than US$550 million a year.
Refinery margins have been set by the Government, resulting in guaranteed profits
for the private sector refiners and guaranteed losses for YPF. Importlexport of
crude oil and petroleum products has been highly regulated; duties and a 1lo
surcharge have made imports and exports of crude unattractive. Excise taxes on
petroleum products and natural gas have been high; and have resulted in high
consumer prices. As a result of government regulations, the private sector has
been highly profitable but with limited scope for investment while YPF has not
had the funds to explore and develop properly the areas under its control.
11.   Government Interference.   Various government agencies,  sometimes with
overlapping functions, oversee the operations of YPF and GdE. Most financial and
operational decisions affecting YPF and GdE are made outside the companies at the
political level, based primarily on the government's need for cash and pressure
from special interest groups, including strong labor unions representing the
employees.  The government has forced YPF to transfer funds to the provinces
through royalty payments significantly above the range of what is common
internationally, and to subsidize the private sector refiners by selling them
crude oil at less than YPF's cost and the natural gas sector by selling natural
gas far below production cost.   Likewise, GdE has been forced to subsidize
petrochemical manufacturers and



63
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 10
domestic consumers of gas.   YPP has undermined its international borrowing
capacity by borrowing on behalf of the Government for balance-of-payment
purposes.   Provincial Governments have required YPF to carry out imprudent
drilling campaigns just to generate work in their jurisdictions.
12.   Petroleum Product Pricing.   The Government controled crude oil and
petroleum product prices using as a base the crude transfer price to the
refineries, which was set until January 1, 1990, at 80? of the international
F.O.B. price. However, use of out-of-date international base prices and delays
in inflation/currency rate corrections resulted in frequent distortions in real
terms. Based on the transfer price, the Government established several levels
of petroleum product prices: (a) refinery (tank) product prices, which consisted
of the crude transfer price, plus the 10 refinery tax applied to the crude
transfer price, and additionally the crude transport costs to the refinery and
a refinery margin; (b) commercial prices (retention value), which are based on
ex-refinery product prices, distribution costs, and dealer and marketing margins;
and (c) consumer prices, based on commercial prices plus excise taxes (earmarked
for an energy and other investment funds, for subsidies to certain energy users,
and for certain provinces and pension funds) that often exceeded 100? of the
commercial price. A 152 VAT was added to commercial prices of fuel oil, diesel,
lubricants and specialty products to arrive at a final consumer pri_e for these
items. No VAT was applied on gasolines, kerosene, or gas oil. Crude oil prices
for private producers operating under service contracts were determined by
contract-specific formulas, with the cost to YPF of such crude often being higher
than the net price received by YPF, the loss having been borne by YPF.
13.   Gas Pricing. The prices of natural gas and LPG were regulated. Each month
the Subsecretary of Energy announced the transfer price of natural gas for sales
from YPF to GdE (US$.19 per m3 in 1988). This price was set without reference
to the prices of alternative fuels or to YPF's costs of production or purchase
(average of US$0.46 per me in 1988). The distribution price was based on the
transfer  price  and  a margin  for natural  gas  treatment,  transport,  and
distribution. The final consumer price was based on type of user, location, and
volume and included 502 to 55Z in taxes (VAT, National, Provincial, Municipal,
and pension fund).  The final consumer price to nonresidential users in August
1990 was less than 50? of comparable international prices and the final consumer
price in the residential sector was only about 20? of the international average.
LPG pricing provided low prices to private sector LPG distributors and very
highly subsidized feedstock to petrochemical companies. YPF's field prices for
natural gas in August 1990 (US$17.211000/m compared to between US$34.4 to
51.611000m8 in the USA) did not allow it to cover costs. Private producers under
service contracts received somewhat higher prices ranging from US$34.4 to US$
51.6 per/lOOOm9. The difference in the transfer price was compensated by YPF.
Social considerations and the intention to replace other fuels used by domestic
consumers with natural gas motivated the government to set gas prices for those
consumers below the market value of substitute fuels. In an effort to offset the
low price to domestic users, the price for industrial users was set at a level
higher but still at about 75Z of the fuel-oil equivalent.



64
ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 10
14.   Taxes and Royalty Payments.  Indirect taxes on petroleum represent about
16.5% of total tax revenue. The system was characterized by numerous taxes at
various levels that influence relative prices (e.g., the gasoline consumer price
is nearly double that of kerosene and diesel oil). In instances where commercial
prices are set by the government, YPF was not allowed to pass VAT on to the
consumer.   On the other hand,  YPF was obligated to pay royalties  to the
provincial governments for crude and gas extracted in their territories, both for
its own production and that of the private sector. Until recently, the reference
wellhead prices were based on the high 1988 world oil prices, adjusted upwards
for inflation. The difference between actual transfer price and the inflated
reference price amounted to a royalty surcharge to YPF of US$135 million p.a. for
crude and US$195 million p.a. for natural gas.
15.   Trade Regime.  Numerous restrictions constrained crude oil and refined
products trade: for example, such products could not be freely imported or
exported; there was a complex system of restrictions on refinery crude oil supply
ar.d products output for both private sector and YPF refineries. The protection
for local products known as "Compre Argentino* affected the petroleum sector PEs
the hardest. (See also para. 10)
16.   Lack of Commercial Orientation of YPF and GdE.  Neither YPF nor GdE has
been profit-oriented, and neither company has had access to sufficient financial
resources to undertake investments (exploration, field development, enhanced and
secondary recovery, and pipelines and other infrastructure) commensurate with
their mandate and the potential of the sector.   Cash accumulated by either
company from operations is typically taken by the Government. Neither company
can predict access to funds since their respective annual budgets were not
approved by the government until late in the year. Managements of the companies
have had virtually no authority, nor were they held accountable. Management
traditionally has been changed frequently (in the case of YPF, an average tenure
of six months) and composed usually of appointees without management experience
or knowledge of the petroleum business. Cost accounting is virtually nonexistent
and records are distorted by currency devaluations.
II. SECTOR REFORM
(a) New Strateiic Approach
17.   Strategy.   The Government of President Menem has  concluded that a
deregulation and privatization of the hydrocarbon sector is called for to
mobilize the large amounts of investment required and to ensure their efficient
allocation as an essential condition for reversing the decline in hydrocarbon
production and reserves.   For this purpose,  it has adopted a four-pronged
strategy: (a) liberalization of all hydrocarbon prices; (b) deregulation of crude
oil purchases and sales including imports and exports; (c) enhanced opportunities
for private sector operation in exploration and producing areas held by YPF; and



65
ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 10
(d) restructuring divestiture/privatization of YPF and GdE. This strategy marks
a drastic break with past practices.   The Government has already enacted
legislation and issued successive decrees that cover in detail the various
aspects of the reform.
18.   Process.   The Government had set January 1, 1991 as the deadline for
substantially completing the deregulation process. YPF has since then awarded
production contracts on its secondary areas, converted the existing production
service contracts and asked for international tenders for joint venture
participation in its main producing central areas for enhanced recovery, aimed
at achieving by year's end 8 million is per year (out of a total of 27 million
m3) of crude oil to be freely controlled by the private companies--and equivalent
to the quantity required by the private refiners. During 1990, YPF also offered
in international tender contracts resulting from the fourth and fifth Rounds of
the Houston Plan. Meanwhile regulated retail prices of petroleum products and
natural gas were increased gradually in preparation for price deregulation. A
plan of action for restructuring/privatization of YPF/GdE was also approved in
December 1990.
(b) Competitive Environment
19.   Liberalization of Prices.   The decrees provide  for a comprehensive
deregulation of upstream and downstream hydrocarbon prices. They specify freeing
of crude prices to equivalent level of export parity'; elimination of
predetermined margins; consumer natural gas prices to reach by January 1992 90?
of imported fuel oil equivalency, with net-back procedures for determining the
producer gas price; producer rights to retain foreign exchange sales proceeds up
to a percentage specified in its contract (maximum 70Z) and in the event of local
currency sales, to have access to foreign exchange up to this percentage; and
right to convert sales proceeds at a rate (if more than one prevails at Banco de
la Naci6n) that most clearly reflects the real exchange relationship between US
dollars and local currency. Prices of most petroleum products are already at
about international parity prices. Substantial increases are needed in natural
gas prices charged to residential, industrial and the electrical sector.
20.   Deregulation of Trade.  Under deregulation, petroleum producers can sell
to the highest bidder. Also, YPF and other producers have the right to trade in
crude oils, and have the right to import crude snd products subject to general
tariff policies. In the event of export restrictions (which must be announced
at least 12 months before becoming effective), the domestic price for crude oil
and petroleum products would be set at parity with imported crudes. In the event
of restrictions on free availability of natural gas, the gas price (per 1000 m3)
shall be set at not less than 35? of FOB per barrel price of Arabian Light. All
As Argentina is a marginal exporter of crude and petroleum products,
international parity is tested by comparing YPF prices to export
prices in suitable reference markets (Houston for crude and
Rotterdam for petroleum products).



66
ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 10
production from marginal areas would be freely disposable as well as the private
sector company's share under Fifth Round Houston Plan Contracts, under joint
venture contracts in main producing central areas and under the reconversion of
service contracts.  All producers would have access to treatment, transport,
storage, and shipment infrastructure at a common-carrier type tariff until
competition is established in the transport business. And new refineries and
service stations may be opened and service stations freely owned. It is expected
that within the next 18 months the private sector will end up controlling more
than 502 of the total production of crude once private companies take over the
operations in marginal, service contract and central areas. This is important
to ensure that the Government may not easily manipulate petroleum products prices
through its control of YPF management decisions.
21.   Incentives for Private Sector. Seventy blocks have been offered in a Fifth
Round Houston Plan international tender and 63 contracts are presently effective
under this plan. Exploration/exploitation rights to YPF's marginal producing
areas have been awarded by the Energy Subsecretariat on the basis of an up-front
cash bonus payable to the Treasury (with 4Z to the province) resulting in US$250
million in revenues; the Government had expected only US$150 million. Conversion
of all existing exploitation service contracts (other than Houston Plan) will be
made to the concession or association system under the Hydrocarbons Law.
Negotiations have been completed by Subsecretariat de Energia with 14 companies
that would result in 9 contracts areas under concession and 16 under association.
The companies will be responsible for producing and freely disposing of about 8
million e3 p.a. once they fully take possession of areas under the new contracts.
Joint venture participation in YPF's main producing areas are aimed at enhanced
and secondary recovery, with award by YPF based on highest cash association fee
offered.    Also, Gas del Estado's preferential right to contract for freely
available gas is subject to agreement with the producer on sales contract within
30 days after notice of availability of the gas reserves, failing which the
producer can sell its natural gas production on the open market.
22.   Tax System.  All royalty reference prices for crude oil are now set at
between 802 and 100Z of average official FOB sales prices for a basket of
specified crude oils, thus reflecting allowance for costs between wellhedd and
point of sale and for natural gas at a maximum of 70X (on calorific equivalency
basis) of the crude oil reference price. The tax on locally refined crude oil
has been reduced from 10% to 0.1 of FOB value of the crude oil and eliminated
for imported crude oil whose derivatives are fully exported.  Also, private
companies now bear and directly pay the royalty on the freely available petroleum
they receive.
(c) Restructuring of YPF and GdE
23.   Conceptual Design.  For some time after deregulation of the sector, YPF
will continue to control a significant share of petroleum production, refining,
and distribution.   To achieve the desired benefits of liberalization,  the
government evaluated (with Bank-financed consultant assistance) the feasibility
of divesting/privatizing certain business activities of YPF/GdE and recently



67
ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 10
approved a program of sales/participation by the private sector. As a result,
YPF will be reorganized as a commercial viable enterprise and Gas del Estado will
be completely privatized. After the PE restructuring, the government's role
would be of a shareholder in a commercial entity (e.g., election of directors and
monitoring results).   The board of directors would be responsible for the
strategic planning and general direction of all the remaining business units
taken as a group, the allocation of financial resources to the business units and
of overseeing the results (profitability and productivity). Each business unit
would cover specific activities with defined scope and limitations, drawing on
its own resources and controlling inputs and processes that affect its
performance in a free market environment.
(d) Regulatory and Policy Framework
28.   Government Role. The Government's plan aims at establishing an environment
of open competition and equal opportunity for both public and private companies
in all aspects of production, sales, and distribution of energy resources, while
at the same time ensuring that national interests are protected with a minimum
of regulations and controls. The Government would thus limit its function to
setting the general parameters for the development of the sector and to
regulating its operation. The state enterprises would yield to the Government
their current regulatory roles, such as: (a) YPF's monitoring of the work done
by private oil companies; and (b) GdE's regulatory role in the design of natural
gas pipeline and distribution systems. The Government has decided to clarify the
functions of policymaker and regulator of its agencies for the hydrocarbon
sector. The policy making and regulatory agencies will be strengthened in terms
of organization and human, financial and logistical resources as well with
appropriate legislation to assume those expanded responsibilities.
29.   Regulatory Functions. The Government, through the regulatory agency, would
be responsible for:
o     monitoring  implementation  of  common-carrier  regulations  when
required;
o     monitoring implementation of gas regulations when required;
o     ensuring application of regulations on safety and environmental
safeguards;
o     monitoring compliance of all companies, including the business units
of the hydrocarbon PE, with their contractual commitments;
o     logistics  (transportation and shipping)  in terms of regulating
access to transportation facilities and deciding tariffs applicable
to both owners and non-owners of the system;



68 .
ANNEX VIII
Page 10 of 10
o     ensuring that companies implement official standards in the design
and construction of oil and gas installations and pipelines;
o     certifying that installations  after their completion meet  the
standards requirements; and
o     ensuring public safety and environmental protection from hydrocarbon
related activities (e.g., pumping stations).
30.   Policy Making.  The government's decision to deregulate the sector, to
allow prices to be established in a freely competitive environment, and to
require the PE's to function as profit oriented entities, means its policy role
will need to be clarified. Policy decisions would essentially be limited to:
o     establishment of ad-valorem taxes on petroleum products and natural
gas, which in turn will have an influence on energy conservation;
o     promotion  of  exploration/production  activities  by  both  state
enterprises and private concerns, and negotiation of contracts with
these entities; and
o     development of the national energy sector strategy.



PERAL - POLICY CONDITIONS
Reforence     Activity                     Objective                          Accomplished                For Floating Trenches
Overall       (1) Macro Framework          Stabilization of Economy                                       Continued satisfactory
Frame-                                                                                                    macroperformance;
Work
(2) Legislaltive            Empower Government to              Congress enacted key
Framework               undertake radical public            legislation
enterprise sector reform;          ("Reform the State")
and 'Economic
Emergeny' Laws);
(8) Public Enterprise
Framework
- Institutional           Strengthen capability of            -Consolidated under
Framework               Government to Control                Ministry of Economy
enterprises and to                  financial/economic
formulate privatization             control;
programs;
-Improved Info systems     Implement system of
to monitor/evaluate;      performance agreements for
major PEs;
- Restructuring and       Reduce role of the State            Advanced *lgntficantly     Formulation of plans for
Privatization of                                            with restructuring of      further privatization for
Public Enterprises                                          major enterprises;         major infrastructure enterprises;
- LAbor Management        Improve labor                       Renegotiation of major
productivity in PEs and            labor contracts under
ease hardships from                way in parallel with
labor reduction;                   revisions of major
labor strategy;
- Procurement             Eliminate restrictions              Non-tariff protection      Repeal 'Compre Argentino';
on PE procurement;                 has been replaced by a
preference margin of SX
over nationalized value;
- Budgetary               Gradually                                                      Reduce Transfers to FA to
Transfers               reduce transfers;                                              US8360 million in 1991 and to
USt260 million In 1992. Terminate
all transfers to Gas del Estado
in 1992.
o x



PERAL - POLICY CONDITIONS
Reference    Activity               Objective                  Accomplished                         by Effectiveness                For Floating Trench-
Railways      Restructuring         Reduce FA's deficit;       Strategy  Authorities            - Execute contract on            - Execute contracts
Sector        Program               make the roiloey           hove approved the                  concession for Rosario/          on Urquiza, Mitre, San
cargo sector              obljctives and                     Bohis Blanca Cargo Line;         Martmn and Sarmiento
competitive and the       elements of a reform                                                Cargo Lines;
passenger service         plan:
efficient;                iole¶ ntation:
- An inventory ond
description of assets
have boen completed
by FA;
- Tender documents have
b en issued for major
cargo concessions;
- A *sparote suburban                                             - Establish separato
service has been                                                  Metropolitan rail company
established within FA;                                            and approve a plan
- O% of interurban                                                 for grsdual subsidy reduction;
passenger services                                              - Government and FA agree
have boon eliminated;                                             on essential interurban
passenger network;           -
- FA has reduced labor                                            - Staff reductions as per      o
force by 12,00 to                                                 agreed trget;
Regulatory            Provide fres play of      Government agreed to                                              - Establish independent
Framework             market forces and         establish regulatory                                                 regulatory agency for
efficient services;       agencies with independence                                          the metropolitan area *s
and technical expertise                                             well as tho national
for the Buenos Aires                                                system.
metropolitan area and for
the notional railways system;
o x
"'



PERAL - POLICY CONDITIONS
Roforene      ActivIty                     Obj ectiv                          Accomplished
Telecom-      Corporsto                    improve and                        StrtOgy:
municatlons  Restructuring/Priv           *xpand                              Covernment/ENToI hav-
Sector        astzation Program            tel.communicetion                  adopted a strategy of:
sorvices through private
participation.                     (a) rostructuring
ENTel Into basic service,
international baoic
service, and non-basic
services;
(b) privatizing basic
oervices by region (north
*nd south) separately to
quolified operators, who
will own jointly
lnternational and non-
basic serviceo;
(c) limiting exclusive
rights to basic services
up to a maximm of 10
years.
(d) opening non-basic
services to competition.
oplj*eenOtion:
Legislation passed to
privatize ENTeI. Sale of
6X equity through
International competitive
bidding completed.
Regulatory                  Foster                              Decree establishing o
Fraomwork                   Competition;                        separate regulotory
enforce monopoly                   authority looued and
lics                               commislon members
obiga tione;                       appointed.
icens  nwm
ontrants;
Iox>
U'



PERAL - POLICY CONDITIONS
Reference     Activity              Objective                            Accomplished                 For Floating Tranche
Nydro-        Deregulation.         Allow free interplay                 Strategy: Allow free         -The Qovernment to
carbons                             ot market forces.                    imports and exports           maintain deregulation of
Sector                                                                   of crude oil and permit       price policies on crudo oil,
crude oil ond pe'%olaum       petroleum products and
product prices to reach       natural gas (to be set At 90X
international parity         of fuel oil on January 1, 19m2)
levels;                       Including free Imports and
Allow gas prices              exports.
to gradually reach           -The Qovernment to approve
90X of fuel ol,.              and make effective all
(Industrial and power        production sharing contracts
consumers of gas to           in four YPF central areas
pay 90% of fuel oil,          put up for tender under
whereas residential           Decree 1218/90.
consumers to be charsed
industrial gas prices
plus distribution costs),
Implementation: The
Government has issued
all decrees required                                                                   4
to implement strategy
by January 1991. To
ensure that crude pro-
duction Is freed-up,
27 secondary areas to
private companies have
been awarded and rene-
gotaetions of service
contracts into concessions
and associations have
boen completed.
41
o 



PERAL - POLICY CONDITIONS
Reference     Activity                      Objective                         Accomplished                   For Floating Tranche
Corporate                    Increase efficiency in             Stratqy- The Govern-           -The Government to achieve
Restructuring/               upstream and downstream            mont hs issued                  progress in
Divestiture/                 activities in oil and gas          decrees that promote            divestiture/private
Privatization                sector,                            private sector part-            participation in YPF/OdE
Program                                                         tcipation In explor-            according to program
ation and exploitation          including; (a) for YPF:
of oil and gas.                privatization of aignificant
Implementati on:               service and downstream
Remaining exploration           business units;
areas have been                 (b) for OdE: privatization
tendered to private            of at least 2 natural gaa
sector under Houston           distribution areas with
Plan and Decree                distribution volume of 26X
6783/89, contracts have        of total sales, tendering of
been awarded to priv-          GdE's distribution and
ate companies on 27            transmission systems, and
secondary oil                   (c) the transfer to the
producing areas of             private sector of at least
YPF and 18 private            1lO  of gas production.
companies have been           -The Government to approve
prequalifled for               the set up of the new
production sharing             restructured YPF having
contracts in 4 YPF's           administrative, including
central areas,                 procurement *nd financial
The Covernment has             autonomy.
issued Decrees on
YPF restructuring, and
OdE privatization.
Policy and                  Ensure effective play of            See above under activity      -The Government to set-up
Regulatory                  market forces and                   "Deregulation",                 restructured policy making
framework                   effective minimum                                                  and regulatory agencies and
regulation of hydrocarbon                                          issue needed enabling
sector.                                                            legislation.  Regulatory
agency staff should have
salaries competitive with
those in the Hydrocarbon
sector in Argentina.
goX
ORO4
I-n



74
AMEX X
Page 1 of 4
hRGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY (DRAFT)
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable:
The purpose of this letter is to present the public enterprises reform
program of the Government of Argentina and to request continued technical
and financial assistance from the World Bank for its full implementation.
I would like to take this opportunity to discuss three broad topics: (i)
the current macroeconomic program; (ii) the framework of the Public
Enterprises Reform Program; and (iii) the rationale for World Bank
assistance.
I. Macroeconomic Program
Macroeconomic Framework
Establishing lasting price stability is the most urgent task on the
road toward sustained growth and productivity.  The Government has made
important progress during 1990 in stabilizing the economy.   Important
actions included trade liberalisation measures including adjustments in
tariff levels and structure. Monthly price increases have dropped from
over 70 percent at the beginning of 1990 to less than 5 percent by December
(measured by the combined price index). These efforts will continue and
be strengthened in 1991.  The Government will conduct its monetary and
fiscal policies with the objective of reducing annual inflation to less
than 50 percent in 1991. While the exact policy targets for the year will
be set in December and January in the context of the on-going IMF program,
the Government intends to achieve a primary fiscal surplus sufficient to
pay all interest obligations of preferred creditors and the maximum portion
of interest on term obligations to foreign commercial banks consistent with
stabilization goals. This would mean a primary surplus of at least 3.5
percent of GDP in 1991, and somewhat higher in 1992.
Public Sector Reforms
The medium-term economic program encompasses a series of structural
reforms for the public sector, with the final objective of attaining a
sector capable of maintaining a permanent flow of current account savings
for financing an adequate program of capital formation under normal
conditions. The lower public sector financial needs would permit foreign
and private sector financial resources to become available to finance
investment, and hence the development of the private productive sector.
The Government has launched a major administrative reform to reduce and
rationalise central government expenditures, is strengthening the tax
policy and administration, and is putting into place a new legal framework
for expenditures control and revenue mobilization. Provincial governments



75
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 4
are also in the process of designing fiscal and structural reform programs.
The Central Bank is being restructured as well. Further, the Government
is formulating a medium-term program to reform all of the financial system,
both public and private, with the objective of promoting a financial system
capable of providing all types of credit needed for sustained economic
growth.  It is in this context that the Government is preparing a deep
reform of public enterprises, covering the privatization of important state
assets.
II. Public Enterprises Reform Propram
The public enterprise sector has long been a source of fiscal deficits
and economic  inefficiency in Argentina.   To promote competition and
stimulate expansion of a modern market economy, the Government has embarked
on a major program of privatization and restructuring public enterprises.
Within the Argentine constitutional framework, a number of laws and decrees
have been issued enabling the executive branch of the government to
implement the reform program.  The reform program has six elements:  (i)
the restructuring/privatization of key public enterprises whose services
have become inadequate; (ii) the virtual elimination of Government
transfers and subsidies; (iii) the development of appropriate regulatory
mechanisms for natural monopolies; (iv) the creation of a competitive
framework for public and private enterprises (eliminating rents and
discriminatory barriers to entry for the private sector); (v) the re-
definition of roles of government authorities and high-level public
enterprise managers through an institutional modernization program; and
(vi) the improvements in the productivity of the labor force through staff
reductions and renegotiations of labor contracts.
Success in reforming public enterprises requires profound changes in
contractual relationships with public enterprise customers, suppliers,
labor unions and the Central Government.  The Government's reform program
is not only to reduce the size of the public sector, but also to attract
new capital, management and technology.  Furthermore, privatization has
been used to convert external debt to equity at a significant discount,
reducing the level of the external debt.
The telecommunications, railway and hydrocarbon sectors are pivotal
sectors of reform.  In telecommunications, the Government decided that the
state telecommunications company (Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones-
ENTel) could not effectively be restructured and that new operators and
owners were required. After elaborating the strategic framework for the
development of the telecommunications business, international bids were
received in June and the transfer of ownership was completed on November
8. The northern region will be operated by an Italian/French consortium,
while the southern region will be run by the state telephone company of
Spain.
In railways, the guiding principle of reform has been the introduction
of the private sector and to rationalize interurban and suburban rail
services. Progress so far includes the award of a concession contract for
the Rosario-Bahia Blanca cargo line and advanced bidding processes in
respect of the Urquiza, Mitre/San Martin/Sarmiento cargo lines.   In
addition some interurban services have been closed, and the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Railways has been se,-up as a separate unit within the
Argentine Railways. To maintain the momentum of reform, future measures
will include the completion of concessioning of cargo lines (including



76
ANNEX X
Page 3 of 4
deregulation of contract cargo rates); the establishment of a separate
legal enterprise for the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Railways so they can be
increasingly transferred, with the concommitant responsibilities, to the
Municipality and Province of Buenos Aires; the elimination of non-essential
interurban services; staff reductions and renegotiations of labor
contracts, and the establishment of appropriate regulatory authorities.
In hydrocarbons, deregulation of the sector is considered key to
mobilize investments and increase production. The strategy includes: (i)
allowing prices to reflect their international opportunity cost (ii)
deregulation of purchases and sales including imports and exports, (iii)
granting the private sector a greater share of oil production, (iv)
restructuring/privatizing the oil and gas state enterprises and
rationalization of the tax system.   Progress so far includes sales of
secondary producing areas, renegotiations of oil production contracts and
advanced bidding for primary producing areas. A second round of measures
will include the restructuringlprivatization of YPF and GdE, the sale of
more secondary areas to the private sector, the establishment of
appropriate regulatory agencies, and the continued practice to maintain
hydrocarbon prices at international opportunity costs.
Based on the success and momentum with the first series of
privatization, the Government believes that this effort be continued and
deepened to other PEs,  especially  in the area of power,  water  and
sanitation, steel, petrochemicals and ports. We are currently in the
process of identifying a priority listing for the next series of
privatization.
Regulatory Mechanisms.   The privatization of public monopolies has
created a need for establishing effective and independent regulatory
authorities to ensure adequate market performance and competitive market
discipline.    A  regulatory  commission  has  been  established  in  the
telecommunications sector (National Telecommunications Commission-NTC).
It will be essential for the NTC to build-up its capability to enforce the
provisions of sale of the northern and southern telecommunications
operations particularly regarding service and performance obligations,
tariffs, and competitive behavior. The effectiveness of the NTC will be
reviewed after its first two years of operation. The Government intends
to consult with the Bank on any required adjustments to its charter and
organization. In the rail and hydrocarbon sectors, studies are underway
to determine the extent of required regulations and the needed
organizational  support.    Regarding  all  regulatory  institutions,  the
Government realizes the importance of (i) competitive compensation schemes
for managers and staff, (ii) timely and sound institutional development
plans including appropriate technical assistance to build-up the competence
and organizational efficiency, (iii) independence of sources to finance
operations and (iv) independence from undue political interference.
Competitive Framework.    Over the past  decades,  the policy  and
legislative framework has effectively precluded competition and stifled
private investment--both domestic and foreign.  The Government's reform
program now emphasizes opening the economy to international competition and
private investment. To achieve this objective, the government is committed
to ensuring a "level playing field' for both public and private enterprises
and to seek repeal of the 'Compre Argentino Law' which, although
temporarily suspended, still burdens public enterprises with excess costs
and cumbersome procurement procedures.



77
ANNEX X
Page 4 of 4
Institutional Modernization Program.   The institutional framework
governing the relationship between the Central Government and public
enterprise has traditionally lacked definition.  To improve rapidly the
management of public enterprises' finances, the Government has assigned to
the Public Enterprises Undersecretatiat in the Ministry of Economy the task
of enhancing revenues, reducing expenditures and designating auditors in
public enterprises. Actions are under way to clarify intra-company debts
among public enterprises and to reduce progressively such debts. To give
credibility to such actions, public utilities have begun to cut services
to large debtors. Furthermore, to take account of the Government's role
in public enterprise in which it retains ownership, measures would be
introduced to foster greater managerial and financial autonomy of managers
coupled with accountability.   The Government recognizes that the legal
regimes of public enterprises must be changed to make public enterprises
subject to the same bankruptcy provisions applicable to private
corporations.   To ensure that increased autonomy is not misused, the
Government would develop performance agreements based on well defined and
transparent targets, monitorable ex-post and tied to appropriate incentives
and penalties.   Performance agreements will be designed for a critical
number of public enterprices. We are also aware that p.ublic enterprises
are associated with environmental degradation in certain cases, and that
there is a risk that this situation may worsen after privatization; the
Government intends to implement forcefully an appropriate institutional
framework to improve the performance of enterprises.
Labor Management. To increase labor productivity and salaries, the
Government intends to renegotiate labor union contracts to eliminate
antiproductivity clauses and to reduce staff significantly, particularly
in the railways. A comprehensive staff reduction program for some major
enterprises has been prepared.
III. World Bank Support
The above presentation demonstrates the depth of the Government's
public  enterprise  reform program.    The  Government  acknowledges  the
important financial and technical assistance support received from the
World Bank in the development of the reform program and believes that
further financial assistance is of utmost importance to implement
su cessfully  its  public  enterprise   reforms,   especially  in  the
telecommunications, railways and hydrocarbon sectors. In particular, it
is the intention of the Government to use the counterpart funds generated
by PERAL as one of the sources to finance the Government's staff reduction
program, as well the funds in the accompanying PEREL to finance the many
studies and other technical assistance needs required for the success of
the Program.
Sincerely,
Erman Gonzalez
Minister of Economy



7IIiI§§77.0                      X            BOLIVIA    6 t                j                                           56                                                   6
SEDIMENTARY BASINS            ;                              M7Lt
1 Noroento                     .        r
3 Ntorontes,                                     .     i. 31i Conhsp6 *
4SoItu- L-                                                                           PARAGUAY
s Cuyuinol                           / San Solvodor  '                  t    '
6ML-orhr,           1                 de)s4oy   j           s       -                                                                          BRAZIL         24
9 DG. s,Il.o     S                                                                                   3-/ 
11 D r 1nlr,rdr                                                                            dn P   ,,     ormosa  f 
13 P'c, Vol/.,r               (                     ttl   '1                                       ( _,    2.,*t/
1 t  ib S bnnSr 9_Sn M qur- dr Turum4i -                  ,                             ;_
15 A.I,,,                                                                            Resilenc,o   ComnonItse      '        -
17 Sowsor,                j                                SantlagodelpEserci
18 Son luPrn            /                        ktoto-  .rc-
_ .  >            ~~~~Calarnorccv 
,I       ,,-I '      > Rioia-                                     Ia                 /
JMonte Cristo             /           J
I ~~~~~~~~~~0A                               SantaPFe&n    i
'Son Jum                     3ani     ,
-321                                        1 * 4} lil2   ' 1; '       .      ''k''enL orenra                        URUGUAY                                              32
5) z      lotdzo     OSuJn Ls                -~ - '>Ro.sario)&n            /          
*     * --1-ercedes
*       - --   ,   ~Campun
"/ v''                                                      U  40 A       BUENOS AIRES
/t'\ '                                    /                             Mt   l aP.Flota
/        \|; t
1 E U sU E  M El md                                                         c !  *     o  oMardel Plato
- )  -=       -     - - ;B-:>ifb8dhi Slanco
t   C\alIo46            'uNn                 6
40.   C  f     :N, '. ;  F r,    \    /J          DViedroc                       K                                                           40'
401
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY LOCATIONS
. ,<,,   |e    rPrevious Risk Conrocts 12
,1t  } /   RavKson                                                     Houston Plan Areas
( ~~~~~~~HUBUT   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JYP~~~~~PEqsixparcdionsAreas
H U  B U  T          ff/,,'..,.',YFE a 
/1 -n,//                                                                    Location          Pd Marcina, Prion Seaice,
4,,1, ;,,.i!: Contract ond Centsal Areas
Camnodaro Rivodavia                                                 0       Crude Oil or Natural Gas Fields
Oitl,                                                               C     ;P: t<9 QQ ..................  ° Refineries
i   $^jF Camdon Seca                                                     h       Crude Oil Storage
;ca Tuncado                                                             U       Products Storage
Pica, {Trncodo                                                         Oc      Airport Plants
'        S A N T A-                                                                                  Crude Oil Pipelines
S A N  T Al                                                                                 Notural Gas Pipelines
)         C  R U Z  I                                                                     -----  ProductsPipdines
48- j i | 1 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CiL t:.1 abge Sea Routes                                                                   48--
(      0 sA        # hf                                                                                 Export Sea Routes
Petroleum Loading Ports
Mooring Heads
A      Marketing Plants
Province Boundaries
t   K    .   , ,.> .  ,                                      ___  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intemofional BSoudeties
t.t t '>. -.,   ^ .                                      R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivers
.1 , S A                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Isoch erVa Dqh) in rAss
2.$rondo
EGO
2 t - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i:g-taOMETERS 
LotIOL 0               200                        600      ,    8
_:IwI|' '                                                                                                                                                                 t,J



BOLIVIA                                      ARGENTINA                                           FEDERAL DISTRICT AND
\   /~~  ~     PARAGUAY          PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM                                       GETRBEO    IE
0   tS  \         ||             TEISMUNCMONS                         l                  ~~~~~~~~GREATER BUENOS AIRES
1--   y ,                               ,.I.TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHACO
i dATAMJARA     SANTIAGO                                |_ fi5) .......  SAN FRNANDO r 
,  i- ATAM      DEL ESTERO        OR               BRAZIL                                             R 
!    >   \               p ~~~~~COSRIEN1tSR  BRAZIL-1r'
0,       ARIOJ      A \/ 
FE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
SAN  U                    A Tv_*l 
\  ,   I  | CO~RDOBA        ETEw\                  .                                      -
t     / JA W 8  , Lt,iS |  ./,  S       URUGUAY                                             TE
o      -  t/M'"';°?A                                         r                                    T IGN
u                                                                        A~~~~~~~~ 
'A (Q (       J SI    i /00_
A tiran tic
k                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co ,
1   r                                                                                                              uenos Aires
r.   Ns*rrn %ow r(lco1m Arwgo\\na)
iS~r  ii                                                       \~                                      \
0 Natonoa CapolWZMO
5  .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Poinie BouaAtLR  E 
.~~                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t  SEAN  8N\
-5D1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
;D  ' I           0           250         SOoi ,i           0            1 0         20 MiIOs                 f t =     Wd A" _  0, _ i, 
n                                      0                      ' O . 4tO i-OO ni'_i 1O K ao4r              30 KiIometers
'0                                                                   _0
'OR)                  70'               10                 10_ _ _ _ _ _                                _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    0



'BOLIVIA                                           60             j
SOUTH                                          <1/ j> f -.
AMERICA                                     ,               C // Ew.c6                                    PARAGUAY
-  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     Ki4At4M~~~~~~~~~~T4A-
T440GASM .          MM   C     E                                                                                     B R  A  Z ILONT   C O    ii. CAS EW
____________________r                \                 I^N        ISEIS       \      AII/PnA R.SMENZEN0A/
7CCIJ~'~t4    liAscEtANA         AVA /A        \
ANDIA -m              DLADA                             VSfllnCI    L-< NtNEPOSAQAS                    /
}        t COCHA  lESOpN   S                  / FrGSISC
'    IIt4OGASTA.<                                                       ? AAoC    / Z < 0AIY  // 5   /BRA  
/    DRALRES    I                                                  URUGUAY
(                      cacnA      \        iUIS1tNSON      TO | A OO
J  nAQI VIACHK  DEMNCEsy                          t   S N
LI.g     SI  l N OZAIA  GUA         D.If     CL  LWAY _
|  2                  CO~~~CO
,I                         INT G. LIICGI O -  JDA. iTlO                 -      ANEA
-                MAIAO2GUE          AATlOfNt    / SEA  t   W  R2N
I                               ,naH0,--Nl0S--~  - V           G4            ,< IFOS
ttSt C    O ; /            j--  z~~~~AVACUCHO
GU01101     P2NEs E               A       YiaFRAlIAN CGSTO
\                                 j    iN       \ i 1D' ii ' >    MAR ~~~~~~~~~DEL tWA
)                                              EA -iA bIA N C A ;  -  01010 -   ' C I SUEQ C N E(N C EA I  P U B L I C A R G E N T IN A
)ZAPA AsSS                                i                           /            PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
)WAA  _   -- - - -    --- --    -  '                   18                                                       RAILWAYS
)   Rowsric, Bobio Blonco Cargo Une and Stations
*0t   $SANANoo  VIED tAI                                  e----  Gonenol Urqui- Capgo Line ond Sttions
Oth--    ler Roil-any Lin"s and Stations
5/. ENG IACOOACC                                                                ---l     aInterotional Boundories
)ESC                         A               600 KILOMETERS
f-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(                                                                O          lrZo         200         300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  400 MILES
zMATI \     .\>                       BUENOS AIRES
nt ,A    0   .METROPOIUTAN RAILWAY SERVICE
Mai"r Rilwy
__                      VISA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISRC
V, '18/tVw
~~~j>    (                                                                                                        FWERAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA
l                                             /             ~~~~~~~~~~~~/MIIJANDROKORtN     " 
RERANDSEN   I
£/ /  AL14MEANO



