Document of
The World B3ank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13457
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE ADJUSTffENT LOAN
(LOAN 3291-AR)
AUDGUST 17, 1994
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and man be used bv recipients only in tbe performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwvise be disclosed without World Banl; authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Argentinean Peso
Exchange Rate
I US Dollar = 1 Peso
(Since April 1, 1991, the exchange rate has been established by law)
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADELCO       =     Non profit Consumer Advocate Organization "Accion
del Consumidor"
ATAM         =     Urban Transit Railway Authority for Buenos Aires
CNT          =     Comision Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
EFF          =     IMF's Extended Fund Facility
ENTEL        =     Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
FA           =     Ferrocarriles Argentinos
FEMESA       =     Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos Sociedad An6nima
GdE          =     Gas del Estado
IMF          =     International Monetary Fund
OSN          =     Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n
PE           =     Public Enterprises
PERAL        =     Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PEREL        =     Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
SFM          =     Servicios Ferroviarios Metropolitanos
YPF          =     YPF Sociedad Anonima (The new name of the National
Oil Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Argentina
Public Enterprise Reform Adiustment Project (Loan 3291-AR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Argentina - Public
Enterprise Reform Adjustment (PERAL) Project (Loan 3291-AR)" prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the
Borrower.
The PERAL, approved in February 1991, was aimed at supporting the
Government's program to privatize most of Argentina's inefficient public
enterprise sector.   In addition to broad overall macroeconomic management
conditions, the Loan included conditions related to the telecommunications,
railroads, and oil and gas sectors, as well as provisions for the preparation of
privatization plans for PEs in other sectors and the repeal of legislation
granting unlimited domestic preference in PE's procurement policies. Actions
provided under the program were supported by a companion Public Enterprise Reform
Execution Loan (PEREL). The loan was closed ten months earlier than scheduled
as most of the loan objectives and conditions were achieved in a timely manner
and even exceeded in certain key areas (e.g. early privatization of the power and
port utilities). Argentina's telecommunications, gas, and oil companies were
successfully privatized in record time, providing useful models for other
countries. Hydrocarbon prices were deregulated. Progress was made, albeit more
slowly, in the privatization of railroads and on the regulatory front.
By drawing on the vast amount of sector work carried out in the
targeted sectors before the inception of the privatization program, the Bank was
able to respond quickly to the Government's request for assistance.   An
interesting and innovative feature of this operation was that it financed
substantial severance payments to staff of privatized PEs. Strong Government
ownership of the programs and the existence of a very effective Project Unit also
contributed to project success. Both the Bank's and the Borrower's performance
are considered to have been very good.
The reform of the PE sector undertaken by the Argentine Government
with the support of the PERAL was among the most far-reaching ever carried out
by any country. Based on results thus far, the project has been very successful
and its institutional impact can be considered substantial.   Likewise,  its
sustainability is considered likely and its overall outcome is judged as highly
satisfactory. The PCR is very thorough and informative. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRJETCOMPLEION REPOR
ARGEGNTINA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page
Preface ............................................i
Evaluation Summary  ..................................  ii-ix
PARrI
A. The Program  ...................................... 1
B. Background ....................................... 1
C  Loan Objectives .................................... 3
D. Overal Conditions and their Fulfllment                         ..                    4
E. The Sectors: ITlecommunications                            ..                       S
F. The Sectors: Railrads ................................ 9
G. The Sectors: Oil  ...................................  15
H. The Sectors: Naturl Gas  ............ .. ................  17
I.  Evaluation  .......................................  19
A. Introduction  ................                                          ...... 26
B   Achievements in Meeting Commitments  .....................  27
C   Institutional Development of a Telecommunications Regulatory Authority  .  27
D. Commitments to Action in the Hydrocarbons Sector ......                  ........ 27
E. Results in the Railway Sector   ............                 ...............  30
F. Results under Supplemental Letters  ...........                 .............  32
G. Evaluation  .......................................  33
H. Borrower Performance    ............ .. .................  34
I.  Project Relationship   .................................  35
J.  Lessons Learned and Conclusions ...........                   .............. 35
K. Summary   .......................................  38
PARr m
Statistical Tables
A. Related Bank Loans .         .................................  39
B. Project Timetable .................................... 40
C Loan Disbursements .................................. 40
D. Dates of Tranche Disbursements   ......................... 40
E. Project Cost and Financing  .........                .................... 41
F. Status of Covenants . ................................. 42
G. Use of Bank Resources   ...............................  44
H. Project Preparation Funding   .........                ................... 45
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performae of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
PUBLIC ENTERPISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL I (LOAN 3291-AR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for that part of the
public enterprise privatization program of Argentina for which Loan 3291-
AR was approved on February 12, 1991. The Loan was fully disbursed and
closed on February 17, 1993, ten and a half months ahead of schedule.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Trade, Finance and Private
Sector Division of Country Program Department IV of the Latin America &
the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
Ill) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.    Preparation of the PCR started in May 1993, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement and Supplementary
Documents, the Supervision Reports, various consultants' studies and reports,
correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank, intemal Bank
memoranda and a short evaluation mission to Argentina which included
discussions with agencies of the Borrower involved with the program, as well
as discussions with selected clients of these agencies, i.e., some of the
intended ultimate beneficiaries of the operation.
4.    Staff Assignments:
(a)   During Loan Preparation (up to July 1990)
Division Chief and Task Manager: Peter R. Scherer
Department Director: Pieter Botellier
(b)   From Post Appraisal through Project Completion
Task Manager: Stefan Alber
Division Chief: Paul Meo
Department Directors: Pieter Botellier/Ping-Cheung Loh






- ii -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
PUBLIC ENTERPISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL I (LOAN 3291-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Loan Objectives and Structure
1.    The US$300 million PERAL I Loan to the Government of Argentina,
approved on February 12, 1991, was designed to support a part of President
Carlos Menem's new (August 1989) Administration's program to privatize
most of the country's public enterprises (PEs). These had been a heavy drain
on Argentina's economy for many years, both because of their inefficiency
(the microeconomic burden) and because of their losses, covered by the
freasury (the macroeconomic cost).
2.    The Bank's role was to offer financial (including the visible use of
Loan counterpart funds for labor redundancy payments), technical (including
a broad program of T.A. through a companion Loan, PEREL) and moral
(through assistance to market access, etc.) support. The privatization
programs receiving direct support under the Loan were those in the
'Telecommunications, Railroads and Hydrocarbons (Oil and Gas) sectors.
Ultimately, the Government's total program went much further; it included,
inter alia, airlines, ports, electricity, water, shipping and many industrial
enterprises. Eventually, the Loan became part of a much larger Bank
adjustment lending program of an additional US$1.5 billion, directed at
public sector institutions, enterprises of the defense complex, the financial
sector and foreign debt reduction (the so-called 'Brady Deal").
3.    The Loan was structured so as to be disbursed in three ranches:
US$150 million upon Effectiveness and the remainder in two US$75 million
"floating" (i.e., not time dated) sectoral tranches upon achievement of
specified objectives and measures in the Railway and Hydrocarbon sectors,
respectively. These disbursement conditions were chosen on the basis of
either being intrinsically crucial for the program or of being broadly
representative of overall progress. In addition to the sectoral conditions,
both 'floating' tranche disbursements were made contingent on the meeting
of some broad overall economic management conditions.



- iii -
B.   Implementation Experience
4.    The great majority of the disbursement conditions were fully met in a
timely manner, so that the Railway and Hydrocarbon Tranches were
released, respectively, in December 1992, and in February 1993, leading to a
Loan Closing in the latter month, a full ten and a half months before the date
estimated originally. The main economic management and sectoral
experiences are summarized below.
C.   Overall Conditions
5.    The principal one was the maintenance of an economic framework
consistent with the overall Program. Since Argentina met or exceeded the
targets of its 1992 EFF Agreement with the IMF, this condition was
considered met. Tvwo other conditions, the presentation of further plans for
privatization and of performance criteria for other PEs, became moot when
these PEs actually were privatized. And repeal of the obligation of PEs to
procure domestically regardless of price (Compre Argentino , was considered
accomplished, in spite of some cavils about its legal adequacy, because the
virtual disappearance of PEs made it, too, moot.
R     The Overall Conditions and their FulfilUment
6.    Below are listed the overall economic management conditions,
together with their implementation record.
(a)   Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program. This condition was
considered fulflled principally on the basis of Argentina's
meeting or exceeding the targets specified in the Extended
Fund Facility Agreement entered into with the IMF in early
1992. The Government's Letter of Development Policy, which
constituted part of the legal documentation, provided a broad
framework for the Bank's judgement.
(b)   Implementation of a system of gerformance agreements for
four major PEs (not those covered by the Loan). This
condition soon became overtaken by events.It had been based
on the assumption that the enterprises in question' would, for
the time being, remain PEs; when later the Government
decided to privatize them forthwith, the condition ceased to be
relevant.
(c)   Formulation of plans for further privatizations of major
infrastructure enterprises. This condition, too, became moot
when the Government instead of producing plans, produced the
1. Agua y Energia, YPF, HIDRONOR, Servicios Metropolitanos Ferroviarios.



- iv -
actual privatization of the PEs in question2; it greatly
surpassed its covenant obligation.
(d)   Repeal of the legislation mandating (practically) unlimited
domestic preference in the procurement policies of PEs. This
condition was considered fulfilled after a certain amount of
hesitation in the Bank, since the legislation in question - the
Compre Argentino Laws - in the view of the Bank's Legal
Department had been suspended rather than repealed. Since,
however, the Loan Agreement had a "...or other action
satisfactory to the Bank..." clause in this covenant and since,
in any event, the widening scope of the privatization program
meant that soon very few PEs would remain, the issue was
considered settled.
E.    Telecommunications
7.    The privatization of ENTEL, the major PE of the sector, had been a
condition for Board presentation. Thus, it was not felt necessary to include
sectoral disbursement conditions in the Loan Agreement. ENTEL had a
wholly unsatisfactory service record and there was a large unmet demand for
lines. ENTEL was broken up; two private Regional (North and South)
operators were licensed under open tender for telephone service (with
exclusivity guaranteed for a certain number of years); most other
telecommunications services were deregulated. An autonomous regulatory
body, Coinision Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (CNT), was created to
monitor the adherence to the concession agreements of the licensees for the
years of exclusivity, rule on proposed tariff changes and perform most other
normal public utility commission functions.
8.    Although CNT was legally created in a timely manner, it was not
able, initially, to function as needed, and still is doing so only in part. The
Bank was instrumental in alerting the Government to the problem; eventually
the Management was changed and progress is now being made, through,
inter alia, substantial technical assistance help under PEREL. But
unquestionably, and perhaps inevitably, the privatization itself has run ahead
of the creation of the institution that was judged necessary to ensure
satisfactory and competition-like results in a market with necessarily
substantial monopoly power. CNT as yet has only an imperfect data flow
from the two licensees, and is still in the process of creating an adequate
accounting and financial analytical framework.
9.    Nevertheless, the privatization program itself seems to be quite
successful so far. Service data from the licensees suggest notable
improvements; investments, profits and tax revenues are up sharply.
2. SEGBA, Administraci6n de Puertos, Obrs Sanitarias de la Naci6n.



-v.
F.    Bailroads
10.   Ferrocarriles Argentinos (PA) had been the largest loss maker among
the PEs and a major cause for Argentina's chronic macroeconomic
management difficulties. It was greatly overstaffed and politicized and
several previous reform efforts had failed. Under the Program, its freight
services were to be concessioned by open bidding to private operators. The
Buenos Aires rail passenger service was to be hived off to a new company
owned by the central, provincial and local governments and plans were to be
made to limit its subsidy; other uneconomic rail passenger services were to
be closed. Before privatization FA's labor force was to be greatly reduced.
An autonomous regulatory body was to be set up.
11.   Under the Bank Loan a number of critical milestones in the program
were identified as disbursement conditions for the "floating" Railroad Sector
Tranche:
(a)   The fiscal transfers to the railroads were to be at or below US$350
and US$250 million in 1991 and 1992 respectively. This condition
was not met by a wide margin, and the Board was so informed. It
was also informed that the reasons for the overrun, a delay in the
freight privatization and B.A. passenger rail transfer, had been
overcome, and that the 1993 budget foresaw only US$140 million in
transfers. This budgetary allocation has proved over optimistic; by
May 1993 the figure already had exceeded US$150 million. The
privatization and transfer delays have continued.
(b)   At least 30,000 workers of FA were to be retired. In the Letter of
Development Policy, the Government agreed that counterpart funds
generated under the Loan would be used for severance payments.
Since average payment per worker was about US$12,000, the
resulting US$360 million exceeded the total loan. The retirement
target was slightly exceeded and was strictly monitored by the
Borrower to prevent reemployment. The settlements were considered
generous so that the program could be carried out without significant
labor union opposition.
(c)   For three specified major freight lines, concession agreements were to
have been executed. This was not achieved; by the time of the
Railway Tranche disbursement only one of the cited cargo lines
actually was executed (plus one that had not been covenanted and one
that had already existed at Effectiveness). The Board was so
informed but was given to understand that the delay would be made
good shortly so that "...in sum, cargo line concessioning has gone
much further than expected at the time of approval...". This, as
already noted, turned out to be moderately optimistic; regarding
concessioning of freight lines, the additional agreements were
executed in January and March 1993 respectively.



- vi -
(d)   A plan acceptable to the Bank, to reduce the Buenos Aires passenger
subsidy, was to have been agreed by the three levels of government
and the railroads. This condition was considered met when the new
company, Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos Sociedad Anonima
(FEMESA), instead of operating, decided to concession the service,
and to evaluate bids on the basis of the least required subsidy. An
award was made and transfers are in progress. Thus, the eventual
outcome is likely to exceed Loan objectives greatly, but in the short
term the budgetary benefits of the lower subsidies have been delayed.
(e)   An Urban Transit Railway Authority for the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Area was to be established. This was done; the new
Authority (ATAM) also has jurisdiction over subways, buses, parking,
etc. There is no experience yet on how it operates.
(f)   A plan to rationalize interurban passenger services and the elimination
of all uneconomic lines was to be adopted. In July 1992, a Decree
announced the latter, and the Bank considered the Loan condition
fulfilled even though the Govemment decided that Provinces wanting
to take over uneconomic passenger services could do so. Four
Provinces have opted for this.
(g)   An independent national railway authority was to be established. This
was done, but it is not yet operational and its functions, vis a vi
those of the Ministry, remain uncertain.
12.   The only freight line that has operated for more ffian two years under
concession is making losses because tffic is much less than expected. Poor
taffic prospects also seem to account for some of the operator-induced
delays in executing the other concession agreements. Some of the causes,
like this year's disastrous floods, are clearly temporary.
G.   QOi
13.   The PE YPF was substantially slimmed down by shedding non-core
activities and reducing labor redundancy. By way of share offerings in
international markets, by September 1, 1993, all levels of government
together will have only a minority stake of about 32 percent. The 'floating
sectoral Tranche disbursement conditions focussed on price deregulation, the
maintenance of free trade in crude and products, execution of production
sharing agreements with private firms, divestiture of non-core assets, a new
charter for YPF and the setting up of a policy making and regulatory body.
They were all met in substance.
H.   Naturl Gas
14.   The gas transporting and distributing PE, Gas del Estado (GdE), was
eventually replaced by two private transmission companies and eight private



- vii -
distribution companies. An objective of the new structure was to introduce
as much competition as possible into the sector and to create incentives-
previously absent-to minimize transport costs and to let field-market distance
influence the choice of gas sources. The 'floating' tranche conditions
focussed on completing the privatization of at least two distribution
companies, gas prices (at least 90 percent of intemational levels of fuel oil
equivalent at user level) and the setting up of an independent regulatory
authority. The conditions were met, although the new authority (Ente
Regulatorio) has begun to function only in recent months and actual
regulations are still in the hands of the Secretariat of Energy. Whether
competition will eventually function remains to be seen, since prices can
remain regulated until mid-1994.
I.    Evaluation
15.   Most, though not all, Loan objectives have been achieved and
accomplishments in some important areas have exceeded the original aims
and were achieved faster than originally projected. This is all the more
remarkable as this was a high risk operation for the Bank; there was little
successful past experience to draw on; judged by historical experience the
subject of PEs in Argentina was explosive and the danger of great public
embarrassment for the Bank in case of failure could not be overlooked.
Among the main reasons for the largely successful outcome are:
(a)   The initiative to privatize was entirely the Government's. The Bank
was vital in providing financial and technical support, but never set
the basic policy objective. This would seem to be a lesson of wide
"DDicabilit5
(b)   The Bank prudently kept a low profile; in spite of a ubiquitous Bank
presence, privatization never became a 'World Bank Program' in the
eyes of political or public opinion. This too would seem to constitute
a generally aplicable lesson.
(c)   A large amount of relevant sectoral work had been done by the Bank
before there was any indication that a privatization program might be
possible. Since at the time the chances for any lending resulting from
this work were quite low, it may well be thought of as a very high
risk gamble. But it paid off; without this technical work it would have
been difficult for the new Government to seize the moment and push
ahead with privatization at the point where a pervasive sense of
national crisis gave it the needed political support. It is far from clear
whether this fortunate outcome offers a good basis for a general
policy of undertaldng costly sector work when lending chances are
low: the law of large numbers suggests that the results would. on the
long run. not warrant the cost. But the experience suggests that a
certain diffidence in evaluating lending chances is warranted.



- viii -
(d)   Implementation was greatly enhanced by a highly effective Project
Unit. The fact that the Head of the Unit had participated. from the
beginning, in Loan discussions and in formal negotiations. enabled the
Unit to play a constructive role during implementation, since he was
fully aware of the backgrounds and rationales of the often complex
issues and of the actions required from the many agencies involved.
This practice probably should be replicated in most similar operations.
(e)   The Bank's investment in Loan Formation and Administration was
heavy (about 612 SW) but vital. Without it, the prgram might have
come to a stop at critical junctures. If budgetary concerns make such
unstinting support impossible, it may be better not to enter into
operations of this kind.
(f)   The Bank's imaginative use of adjustment lending, in allowing visible
application of counterpart proceeds to finance severance payments,
was decisive in making railroad privatization feasible. But its
justification hinged on two circumstances: monitoring to prevent
rehiring or replacement and, even more important, imminent
privatization, after which the pressures to overstaff would,
presumably, largely disappear. Only similar circumstances in otha
cases would seem to warrant a similar policy posture.
16.   A relatively unsatisfactory feature of the PERAL I experience is the
degree to which privatization outran the functioning of the regulatory
institutions, even though, mostly these were created in a timely manner. It
rises the question whether either the privatization program should have been
delayed or whether more should have been done to accelerate the full
development of the regulatory institutions. The former was clearly
impossible; the political moment in which the new Government could count
on national support for this most controversial new departure had to be
seized; there is every reason to believe that a year later would have been too
late. No doubt, more attention should have been paid early on to the steps
needed subsequent to creating the Authorities, but the possibilities of what
might have been achieved should not be exaggerated. The attention of the
limited number of responsible policy makers could not but be focussed
primarily on the critical privatization issues first; had it been otherwise these
might not have been resolved and regulation would have been a moot issue.
An apropriate conclusion for future cases would seem to be that the Bank
ought to keep the Argentine experience in mind and 'lean against the wind'
as much as possible to ensure that these issues are attended to early. but
ought not to be overly sanguine about the chances for full success.
17.   The disappointments under the Loan, namely the pace of progress in
meeting some of the specific Railway Sector conditionality and the
effectiveness of the regulatory bodies that were to be set up, are linked by a
common thread. It is that well before either issue was resolved, the Bank no
longer was an important player. The Loan was closed in February 1993,



- ix -
Supervision ceased and the Bank was not in a position to help, warn, cajole
or press for remedial action when things seemed to be going wrong, because
it was no longer so close to the program. There is a basic structural problem
in financing programs of five or more years' implementation with loans that
are to be disbursed in one or two years, and unless special precautions are
talken. the risk of underachievement of objectives is serious. These
precautions may be of several kinds: follow-up project (or even follow-up
sector) Loans, larger Adjustment Loans with more Tranches, etc. Butithe
central goal. to permit the Bank to accompany the adjustments that are the
object of its Loan in the first place. for long enough to help ensure the
robustness of the institutions needed to make them function, and to do so
without an undue inflation of its Supervision costs per dollar lent, is critical.



ARGENTrNA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORr
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL I (LOAN 3291-AR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIIVE
A.   The Progrm
1.1   The first Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan - PERAL I -
(Loan 3291-AR) to Argentina, for US$300 million, was designed as a
relatively quick disbursing balance of payments support operation with the
specific objective of providing financial, technical and moral support for an
important part of the Govemment's program of profound structural economic
reforms. The Govemment was in the process of privatizing many (eventually
it became virtually all) Public Enterprises (PEs); PERAL I was designed both
to support the general policy and to give very direct support to spifi
privatization operations in the telecommunications, railways and oil and gas
sectors.
B.    Background
1.2   Since the 1940s, the Argentine State had developed a pervasive
presence in the economy. For various reasons that go far back into history
and politics, state enterprises had become dominant in virtually all public
services and had also gained important footholds in manufacturing industry,
banking and other financial services, etc. Since through much of the period
parliamentary institutions had been weak and unstable, the public
accountability of these PEs was minimal and most had become heavily
politicized, with overstaffing, inefficiency and absence of concern with
commercial criteria in investment and operating decisions being common.
1.3   As a result, governments were continuously being put under pressure
to finance the growing operating losses as well as the investments of the
enterprises, either from the national budget or by using the State's limited
foreign borrowing capacity for them. In response, a number of attempts had
been made in earlier years to sanitize the most egregious loss making PEs,
especially the railroads. These attempts, which had, at times, been supported
by Bank loans, had mostly failed because the political cost of closing
uneconomic services and reducing labor redundancy sufficiently, had proved
to be too high.
1.4  It had thus gradually become clear to increasingly wide segments of
opinion makers as well as of the population at large that the inefficiency of
the PEs was a dead weight on the economy in two ways: on the one hand
because the railways, electricity, telephone, ports and other public services
were unsatisfactory and created high costs for the industrial and agricultural



- 2 -
sectors (the microeconomic burden), and on the other hand because the drain
which the PEs produced on the national budget made sound macroecongm
management for any length of time virtually impossible. The latter was
evidenced by the fact that over the years one economic stabilization plan after
another failed, with increasingly short intervals between them.
1.5   The coming to power of President Menem in 1989 coincided with the
latest and most dramatic of these failures. The collapse of President
Alfonsfn's economic management and the initiation of hyper-inftation caused
the transfer of power to President Elect Menem to be pushed forward by five
months by mutual agreement. There was an unprecedented general sense of
national crisis and, consequently, a greater willingness than in many decades
to abandon past formulas and to take radical remedial measures.
1.6   The new Regime responded very fast with a National Economic
Emergency Law and a Law to Reform the State. Together they contained the
elements for a virtually new beginning in the organization and management
of the Argentine economy. The role of the state would be reduced to
ensuring that markets operated as competitively as possible, that Argentina
would be fully integrated into the international economy (itself a major
guarantor of competitive pressures) and that some basic social services would
be provided. The state would cease to be a producer or a trader of goods and
most services.3
1.7   The atmosphere of crisis in which the new policies were born implied
also an extreme sense of urgency on the part of the Government, both for
objective reasons - the deficits had to be dealt with fast if the economy was
to be stabilized - and because the political support for drastic measures could
not be expected to last indefinitely unless major actions and results were
shown promptly. Consequently, a number of major decisions regarding both
scope and method of the privatization process were only made in the course
of program implementation; the process had begun without a detailed
blueprint. Moreover, in different enterprises quite different methods were
adopted; while in part this responded to differences in the nature of the
enterprises and their problems, in part it also was the result of adaptive
learning from the experiences of the first privatizations and of a pragmatic
willingness to experiment in the absence of many instructive precedents.
3.    Subsequently, equally dramatic changes were made in the monetary and financial
system. The creation of money was firmly tied to the level of international reserves,
full peso-dollar convertibility at par was instituted and the indexing of contracts in pesos
was invalidated. Thus, the usual contemporary system of monetary and exchange rate
management discretion was replaced by a system of rles akin to those of the Pro-
World War I Currency Boards.
-----_-----



-3-
C.   Loan Objectives
1.8   The Bank had long recognized the key role of the PEs in both the
micro and the macro-management of the Argentine economy.
As noted, it had in the past tried to help improve their efficiency through
reform programs tied to specific investment loans, not only in railroads but
also in the electric power, water and ports sectors. The success of these
attempts had been very limited. Between 1987 and 1989 the Bank, in
collaboration with the Alfonsfn Government, had been engaged in preparing a
broad gauged program to improve the efficiency of the public enterprises in
general, but without any thought of necessarily changing the basic conditions
of ownership.
1.9 When the new Government announced its intention to do away with
most or all PEs, it also sought the assistance of the Bank for this process.
Much of the technical work done in connection with the plans referred to
above then provided a highly useful foundation for the privatization program.
1.10   The Bank was quick in deciding to accede to the request for
assistance. It recognized that micro and macroeconomic issues were involved
which were quite critical for Argentina's future; also it was thought that the
Bank's detailed knowledge of many of the sectoral issues, as well as its
overall experience could make a valuable contribution. Moreover, by the
time of post-appraisal, it became clear that the short-term impact on the
public finances of paying for the retirement of many thousands of redundant
workers and employees would be so heavy, that the Bank's financial presence
could also play a direct enabling role.
1.11 The Bank's support to both the Alfonsin and Menem governments was
characterized by an extraordinary manpower effort lead by Division Chief
level staff and other senior sectoral professionals. Another eminent feature
was the Bank's ability to rise to the occasion and make available to the
authorities project preparation funds, well beyond the normal limits of the
Bank's project preparation facilities, to finance the government's needs for
sectoral specialists, investment bankers, auditors and attorneys, all needed to
pave the way for the privatization of targeted public enterprises. In all, the
Bank facilitated about US$7 million, tapping several existing Bank loans,
three Project Preparation Facilities, some special funds including US$1.1
million in Japanese Grant funds (see Part Im, Section H) Argentine officials
acknowledged that without the Bank's continuous technical and financial
support, the ambitious reform program would not have been launched.
1.12 After much internal debate, it was agreed to focus the Bank's
participation in the privatization effort on the telephone, railroads and oil and
gas sectors. Technical assistance would be provided through a parallel,
related loan (Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan - PEREL - 3292-AR)
which will be fully committed by the first semester of CY 1994. PERAL I
disbursements would be tied to the fulfillment of two types of conditions:



- 4 -
general ones pertaining to economic management and sector scific ones
pertaining to the sectoral institutions covered by the Loan. One half of the
Loan would be disbursed upon effectiveness and the rest in two equal
"floating" (i.e., not time-specific) sectoral tranches upon fulfillment of
particular sector specific conditions.
1.13 Eventually, the Loan became part of a much larger Bank adjustment
lending program of an additional US$1.5 billion, directed at public sector
institutions, enterprises of the defense complex, the financial sector and
foreign debt reduction (the "Brady Deal").
a     The Overall Conditions and their Fulfillment
1.14   Below are listed the overall economic management conditions,
together with their implementation record.
(a)    Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program. This condition was
considered fulfilled principally on the basis of Argentina's
meeting or exceeding the targets specified in the Extended
Fund Facility Agreement entered into with the IMF in early
1992. The Government's Letter of Development Policy, which
constituted part of the legal documentation, provided a broad
framework for the Bank's judgement.
(b)   Implementation of a system of performance agreements for
four major PEs (not those covered by Loan). This condition
soon became overtaken by events.It had been based on the
assumption that the enterprises in question' would, for the
time being, remain PEs; when later the Government decided to
privatize them forthwith, the condition ceased to be relevant.
(c)    Formulation of plans for further privatizations of major
infrastructure enterprises. This condition, too, became moot
when the Government instead of producing plans, produced the
actual privatization of the PEs in question5, i.e. greatly
surpassed its covenant obligation.
(d)   Repeal of the legislation mandating (practically) unlimited
domestic preference in the procurement policies of PEs. This
condition was considered fulfilled after a certain amount of
hesitation in the Bank, since the legislation in question - the
Compre Argentino Laws - in the view of the Bank's Legal
Department had been suspended rather than repealed. Since,
4. Agua y Energu, YPP, HIDRONOR, Servicios Metropolitanas Ferroviarios.
5. SEGBA, Adrninistraci6n de Puertos, Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n.



however, the Loan Agreement had a '...or other action
satisfactory to the Bank..." clause in this covenant and since,
in any event, the widening scope of the privatization program
meant that soon very few PEs would remain, the issue was
considered settled.
E.   Tlecommunications Sector
1.15 Before privatization, the PE Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(ENTEL) served about 90 percent of all subscribers to public networks in
Argentina. Service levels were quite inadequate; only 47 percent of all urban
call attempts and 23 percent of all interurban and long distance ones were
completed; a 70 percent figure is considered the minimum that a well
developed system should achieve. As the PE's generation of funds had been
insufficient, investments had been lagging behind requirements for decades;
estimates were that there was an unmet demand of one million lines and
waiting periods of many years were common for new subscribers.
1.16   The Law of the Reform of the State of August 1989 made ENTEL
privatizable and the Implementation Decree of September 1989 laid down
detailed guidelines. Basic telephone service was to be provided under
exclusive rights (fbr 5 years after an initial 2 years for organization.
Renewable for three more years if certain service targets are met) by two
private zonal (North and South) operators whose licenses were to be awarded
by public tender. Non-basic services and terminal equipment were to be
open to competition. Tl\ other companies initially would be owned jointly
by the two licensees: one to provide international phone, telex, data and
leased satellite circuits, and another to provide national telex and data
services and maritime mobile radio, all under competitive conditions. The
joint ownership of these companies by the two operators was considered
necessary because it was foreseen that for a number of years these services
would have to cross-subsidize some of the basic ones.
1.17 Since the two licensees would have substantial degrees of monopoly
power, an autonomous Regulatory Authority (Comision Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones - CNT) was to be created. It would monitor the
performance of the operators under their license agreements which included a
number of specific targets regarding the expansion of the system and the
quality of the service and were conditions of maintenance of the exclusivity.
1.18 CNT would analyze and oversee tariff setting. During the exclusivity
period the basic criterion for rate making was to be a pulse rate expressed in
dollars, with adjustments according to the U.S. cost of living index. So far,
the system has worked quite well but the licensees consider it potentially
onerous because of the fixed dollar/peso parity and the danger that their
costs-mostly pesos--could rise faster than the reference (dollar) index which
determines revenues.



- 6 -
1.19 CNT further was to monitor the finances of the operators, review cost
of service estimates and their methodology, establish performance indicators
and systems to monitor them, assess the licensees' investment, depreciation
and procurement policies, establish technical standards for netvork and
terminal equipment and provide advice and support to ensure that efficient
operations underlay any proposed tariff increases. It was, in short, to
perform the highly complex economic and technical functions of a typical
Public Utility Commission in a sector with advanced and rapidly evolving
technology.
1.20 It should be noted that, although CNT was charged with ascertaining
the licensees' financial rates of return, these were deliberately rejected as the
basis for rate making. In part this was done because of the unfamiliarity of
the rate of return approach to legislators, journalists and the public and
because of real difficulties in establishing a proper valuation of existing
assets. In part it was also based on the fact that, since it was assumed that
the whole large expansion program had to be financed out of internally
generated funds, the target rate of return that would have to be set, of at least
16 percent, might be too controversial.
1.21 The existing collective bargaining agreement between ENTEL and its
labor union was rescinded before privatization; it may well be that otherwise
no bidders might have presented themselves. As it was, out of eleven
prequaLified bidders, three finally submitted bids. Eventually, the awards
went to Telecom Argentina for the Northern Zone and Telefonica de
Argentina S.A. for the Southern Zone. The former has a French/Italian, and
the latter a Spanish operating company.
1.22 As noted, ENTEL was one of the first privatizations to be undertaken,
and it was urgent for the Government to proceed apace. Hence, by the time
the Bank's Loan began to take shape, many of the fundamental decisions had
already been taken and the program was well on its way, which is not to say
that the earlier Bank vork on the sector had not been a major input into the
Government's decision making'. The finalization of the privatization of
ENTEL was made a condition of Board presentation; what remained to be
done was mainly the large task of making the newly created system work.
This involved primarily the provision of technical support and expertise.
1.23 For that reason no telecommunication sector-specific conditionality
was included among the tranche disbursement conditions of PERAL I; rather
the Bank's covenants on telecommunications are to be found in the Letter of
Development Policy and in PEREL, which will only be reported on when it
is closed. At the same time, however, the fact that the ENTEL privatization
6.    See, for examplo, the November 18, 1988, Letter of Transmittal by Mr. P. Sbcerer, Chief of
the Trade, Finance and Industry Division of LAC Country Department IV, of the Repost of a
Bank Technical Group regarding a possible joint venture between ENTEL and Telef6nica de
Espaia.



- 7 -
began earlier than the others included in the Loan, permits at least a very
preliminary look at some of the early results of the process, i.e. at issues
going beyond the compliance with covenants or the timeliness of
implementation.
1.24 One issue on which there is a wide measure of agreement in the
Government and among other interested parties--e.g. consumer groups and
licensees--is that, in spite of the prompt lgal creation of the Regulatory
Authority (Comision Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, or CNT), it was not
ready to perform its role when it was first needed and, in spite of definite
improvements, still is doing so only in part. Initially it was staffed by
ENTEL and Ministry of Communications personnel without any clear
conception of the function of an independent regulatory body. It lacked not
only all data but also a conceptual framework for obtaining relevant data; it
lacked the accounting, legal, financial, economic and technical basis needed
for its work, and it lacked the orientation of public service.
1.25 The Bank played an active role in alerting the Gavernment to this
problem, which could only be addressed after the first Management of CNT
was changed in January 1992. Some information--mainly financial--is now
flowing from the operators to CNT. CNT organization has been assisted by
consultants under a US$1.5 million contract, financed through PEREL. On
April 15, 1993, CNT finally issued the service quality regulations
(Reglamento de Calidad de Servicio) which laid down the licensees' service
obligations in far greater detail than the license contract. Even now,
however, CNT does not yet have a complete and current information system
regarding all aspects of the licensees' performance.
1.26 While CNT clearly had responsibility for monitoring performance
under the license agreements, it has only recently accepted that part of its
mandate concerns the licensees' responsiveness to individual complaints (one
of ENTEL's most deficient aspects). In May 1992, CNT signed a contract
with a non-profit consumer advocate organization (Accion del Consumidor,
or ADELCO), to represent complaining consumers before the licensees and
before CNT, channelling complaints first to the licensees and then, if needed,
to CNT, and monitoring implementation of any remedial action that CNT
may resolve. ADELCO carries statistics of complaints received since the
initiation of the contract; they are inconclusive but do not suggest any
pronounced trend. In any event, no statistics about how complaints were
disposed of exist.
1.27 More data on service performance are available directly from the
licensees. Telefonica de Argentina (Southern Zone), for example, carries
monthly statistics on its own performance under the principal quantitative
targets of the license agreements (but reports these to CNT only when
requested, which seems to be annually). Some of these are:



- 8 -
Table 1 - Telef6nica's Adherence to License
LICENSE       ACTUAL
OBLIGATION
Percent of Calls Completed
Local Intraregional                           70.00       98.91
Interurban Intraregional                      60.00       98.27
Percent of Calls Not Completed
Local Iaterregional                           43.00        4.55
Interurban Interregional                      59.00        2.03
Operator Service (%)
Information; response under 10 sec.           67.00       74.80
Repairs; response under 20 sec.               67.00       64.18
Interurb. calls; assit. under 10sec.          67.00       84.88
Delay in Repairs in Local Netw. (Days)          7.00        3.29
Waiting Period for New Lines (months)'         12.00       11.36
1.28    Thus, most of the service minima established in the license
agreements have been exceeded to date. ADELCO reports less progress than
these figures suggest with respect to responsiveness to individual complaints,
but its reporting period is still very short. Residential connection charges
have been reduced from US$1,200 in 1990 to US$900 by November 1991
and US$750 by November 1992. For November 1993, a further reduction to
US$500 is planned and a last one, to US$250 has been ordered for
November 1995.
1.29    The two licensees appear to be increasingly profitable. From  their
published accounts, the following figures can be extracted; they probably
overstate net worth because of overvaluation of assets; if so the true rate of
return on equity would be higher than shown here.
7      Measured by dividing current monthly numbcr of installations of new lines by total backlog of
requests. Thus it does not pretend to rflect either past or futur actual waiting periods, but only
what the avcrmgc waiting period for presently outstanding requests would be if the current ratc
of installation continued in the futur.



- 9 -
Table 2 - Profitability of Privatized Telephone Companies
Telecom    Telef6ica
(US$ million)
Profits Before Taxes
1991                        92.8       160.1
1992                        182.3      293.2
Profits After laxes
1991                        55.2       121.2
1992                        150.3      219.1
Net Worth
1991                      1,743.8    2,418.9
1992                      1,844.0    2,524.1
Average 1991-1992                1,793.9    2,471.5
Profits in 1992 as % of Net Worth
in Average 1991-1992
Before Taxes                 10.2       11.9
After Taxes                  8.3         8.9
Source: Profits and Net Worth from company accounts
provided by CNT.
1.30   Good progress is reported by CNT with respect to cellular
telephones. Two systems already exist in Buenos Aires. The rest of the
country has been divided into two zones for this purpose, and tendering is
under way. Nine bidders have been qualified; bids are to be evaluated on the
basis of speed of installation and scope of service rather than of price only.
F.    Railroads Sector
1.31   Ferrocarriles Argentinos (FA), the PE owning and operating the
national railway network of some 35,000 km. had been a major drain on the
national Treasury for many years, requiring an average annual subsidy of
over US$500 million between 1986 and 1990. For more than 15 years, its
wage bill alone had exceeded its total revenues. It was, moreover, in the
throes of a vicious circle; its lack of internally generated funds prevented
adequate maintenance and improvement investments; this, in turn, caused a
deterioration of equipment and service and continuing loss of customers,
mainly to the trucking industry. Thus freight traffic fell from 15 billion
T/Km in 1970 to under 9 billion in 1988 and passenger traffic, in the same
period, from 7 billion P/Km to 6 billion in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan
Area and from 5 billion P/Km to 4 billion for interurban traffic. Since much
of Argentina's exports consist of bulky agricultural commodities, the shift to
trucking as the preferred mode of transport involved a heavy economic cost
on the agricultural sector.



- 10 -
1.32   The main causes of FA's problems included overstaffing and archaic
work rules enforced by politically powerful labor unions which also
interfered with management decisions; maintenance of uneconomic lines to
accommodate not only labor but also provincial political interests and urban
passengers; lack of concern with commercial criteria which resulted, inter
,  in underallocation of locomotives to the more economic services;
procurement restrictions (such as the Compre Argentino rule) and high
import tariffs; the already cited insufficiency of funds for maintenance and
investments; and tariff regulations which prevented flexible pricing and
efficient adaptation to market situations.
1.33 The formula chosen to achieve the privatization of FA--derived from a
Bank sponsored study--was to divide the PE into various segments and to
issue concessions, through competitive bidding, for the potentially profitable
ones, to private operators. These segments would include cargo networks,
some interurban passenger services, railway workshops and rolling stock.
The Buenos Aires metropolitan rail passenger service, a major loss maker
which, however, had some economic justification because of urban
congestion problems, would be separated from FA and run as a separate
company under a regional authority, with plans, to be agreed, on the fiscal
subsidies that it could receive. All uneconomic--i.e. unprivatizable--
interurban passenger services would be closed or offered to the provinces to
run at their expense. FA's large real estate holdings would be developed
and/or sold and the proceeds would constitute a fund to help finance the
urban passenger service subsidy. Surplus labor would be reduced
appreciably before privatization.
1.34 The Bank's role in this process was of several quite distinct natures.
On the one hand it provided a critical input to accomplish the program as a
whole, inasmuch as the cargo lines could not have been privatized if bidders
had to take on the redundant labor. Since the labor that had to be shed
needed adequate severance pay, the immediate financial cost to FA--or rather
to the Government, since FA had no money--was heavier than might have
been supportable in a setting of fiscal crisis. The Bank Loan removed this
obstacle, not only de facto' but, importantly, even in appearance, as Loan
counterpart funds had been agreed to be channeled for the payment of
retirement benefits.
1.35 The other form in which the Bank Loan became a structural
component of the program was that the Borrower and the Bank agreed on a
series of measures that were considered either in themselves critical for the
future attainment of program objectives, or that were viewed as broadly
representative of the pace of progress achieved. These steps would constitute
formal prerequisites for the disbursement of the 'floating" railway loan
tranche.
8. Since money is fungible, any transfer of funds to the Government not offset by corresponding
additional expenditures would have relieved the strain on the fisc.



- 11 -
1.36 These conditions and the degree to which they were met, are
described below.
(a)    Transfers to the railroads from the Central Government budget
were not to exceed US$350 million and US$250 million in
1991 and 1992. respectively.9 When, in December 1992, the
Bank informed the Board of Directors that the Railway
Tranche release conditions had been met, it was noted that
these particular targets had not been achieved and that transfers
had been closer to US$500 million and US$700 million in the
two years. But it was said that the causes of this
underperformance had been overcome and that the
Government's budget request then before Congress for 1993
amounted to only US$140 million for such transfers.
1.37 Budgetary expectations will not be met by a substantial margin during
1993. In the first five months of 1993, US$152.8 million had already been
received by the railroads (FA and FEMESA, see below), and the authorized
("librado") amounts for the saame period are even higher (US$193.6 million).
1.38  The main reason for the performance shortfall is that the pace of the
privatization of the freight lines and of the adoption of the new order for the
Buenos Aires passenger service has continued to lag considerably. At the
time of the Railway Tranche release, it looked as if the main cause for these
lags was that the new initiative of the Government (to concession the service
instead of having the new company operate it) added a major new structural
reform dimension. This new dimension strained temporarily the
Government's capacity to manage the process' and caused delays in
concessioning the freight services as well.
1.39 While this explanation was, no doubt, correct, it now appears that
other causes were at work as well, including delays caused by some of the
winners of concessions when it appeared that immediate traffic prospects
were less favorable than had been assumed at bidding time. Floods, the
delay in complementary infrastructure investments--especially the expected
rehabilitation of the port of Bahia Blanca--and even second thoughts about
contract clauses seem to have played a role.
1.40  It is noteworthy that the financial transfer condition was not met even
though what was considered the most important prerequisite for it, the
shedding of redundant labor, was. A Side Letter to the Loan Agreement
9. Because of its macroeconomic importance, in the Loan Documents this is actually treated as
one of the overall' conditions but for purposes of analysis of the experience in the railways
sector, it seems more suitable to deal with it here.
10. See Memorandum from the President to Executive Directors, of December 17, 1992
(SecM92-1566).



- 12 -
specified minimum targets of number of workers who were to be shed by
particular dates; by Tranche release time the total would amount to 30,000.
The Borrower closely monitored this program and the number in question
was, in fact, somewhat exceeded. Moreover, further progress has, in this
respect, been made since Tranche release; if one counts not only participants
in the "voluntary" retirement program but also natural attrition and other
causes, the total railroad staff by June 1993 was some 66,000 lower than at
the initiation of the program. Since the "voluntary" retirees received, on
average, severance pay of US$12,000, the cost of these 30,000 workers
alone was US$360 million, i.e., more than the Bank Loan.
(b)   For three of the major freight lines (Urguiza. Mitre. and San
Martin-Sarmiento). concession agreements were to be actually
executed." At the time of the Tranche release only the Mitre
line agreement had actually been executed, and the Board was
so informed. It was also informed that: "The San Martin-
Sarmiento and Urquiza Lines have been pre-awarded, final
contract negotiations are under way and contract execution is
expected by the end of December. The Govemment's strong
reform action is further supported by the recent contract
executed for another major cargo line (Roca)... Further, in
respect to the Belgrano line... railroad employees are bidding
for the concession. Negotiations are expected to be concluded
in the next few weeks. In sum, cargo line concessioning has
gone much further than expected at the time of approval."
1.41 This reading has proved moderately optimistic. The additional
expected agreements had actually been executed by January and March 1993
respectively.
(c)   The reorganization of the Buenos Aires metropolitan passenger
rail services and the legal establishment of a separate (i.e..
independent of FA? company to operate the metropolitan rail
system. The condition was met when on March 25, 1991,
Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos Sociedad An6nima (FEMESA)
was created by Decree #502 to operate the metropolitan rail
service. As specified in the Loan Agreement, the new
company was owned by FA, the Province and the City of
Buenos Aires. Three months later it was decided that, rather
than operate the system, FEMESA would concession it to a
private operator by competitive bidding.
(d)   The formal approval by the Borrower and the relevant
provincial and local authorities of a plan acceptable to the
11. This was in addition to the Rosario-Bahia Blanca Line, for which an agreement had already
been executed by the time the Loan became effective, and which therefore was not included in
the list.



- 13 -
Bank for the gradual reduction below the 1990 levels of the
public subsidies for the Buenos Aires metropolitan rail
passenger service. This condition was considered as more than
fulfilled when on June 14, 1991, by Decree #1143 the decision
to concession the service by public tender was issued, since the
bid evaluation was to consider the level of the required subsidy
as the price variable (i.e., the qualified bid demanding the
lowest subsidy would, ceteris paribus, be considered as
offering the best price). However, as already noted, although
the bidding took place and awards were made, actual transfers
to the concessionaires by July 1993 had not yet taken place.
Therefore, even though the eventual outcome may exceed Loan
objectives, the subsidy level contained in the bid was not yet
operative through mid-1993. This is one of the reasons why
the global transfer ceilings to the railroads continued to be
exceeded.
(e)   The establishment of a railway transit authority. with functions
and resnsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to regulate the
provision of suburban passenger services in the Buenos Aires
metropolitan area. This condition, too, was fulfilled by
Decree 1143 which also went further and created ATAM, with
authority to advise on metropolitan rail but also bus and
subway services, parking and other urban transport related
activities in Buenos Aires. It is too early to assess the way in
which ATAM is actually exercising its functions.
(f)   Agreement between the Borrower and FA on a rationalization
plan for interurban railway services "...including elimination
of all non-essential and unprofitable services." The Bank
considered this condition fulfilled by the issuance of Decree
#1168 on July 10, 1992. In it the Government announced that
all interurban passenger services other than Buenos Aires-Mar
del Plata, which would be concessioned to the private sector,
were to be abandoned, although those provinces that wished to
maintain particular services at their own expense (after
December 12, 1992) would be given 30 year concessions to do
so. While the Government would remain owner of real estate
and infrastructure, the concessionaires would take over the
rolling stock, the personnel and responsibility for maintenance.
So far, four provinces, Buenos Aires, Rio Negro, Tucuman
and La Pampa have made use of this exemption. Thus, the
original purpose of relieving the tax payers of the burden of
subsidizing uneconomic lines will not be achieved in full;
instead, part of the burden (admittedly on a much reduced



- 14 -
scale as services were reduced to about one third) will shift
from the Central Government's to the provincial budgets."2
(g)   The establishment of a national railway authority with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. to
regulate the provision of railway services throughout
Argentina. Decree #2339 established the Ente Nacional de
Regulaci6n Ferroviaria on December 4, 1992, thus fulfilling
the Tranche disbursement condition. Since then, progress of
the regulatory authority has been slow; selection of members
of the Board have been made, but the Authority by July 1993,
was not yet functioning. Instead, regulatory activities continued
to be in the hands of the Direcci6n de Transporte Ferroviario,
i.e., a sub-division of the Transportation Secretariat (Ministry).
Moreover, there was in preparation the creation of yet another
regulatory body, the Comisi6n de las Concesiones
Ferroviarias, a direct dependency of the Ministry, which would
be responsible not only for safety but also for monitoring the
adherence of the private operators to their concession
agreements. This latter function had been intended to be a
major task of the more autonomous Ente.
1.42 It is difficult to predict how the national regulatory scheme will work;
on its face it looks as if there might be both a significant overlap in functions
between 'Ente" and 'Comision", and a diminution in the role of the more
autonomous regulatory agency13.
1.43 To date, there is, of course, only the most limited experience of how
the privatized railways are faring. The Rosario-Bahia Blanca Line (Ferro
Expresso Pampeano S.A.), the one that has been in private hands longest, is
not doing well so far. Even though it has managed to raise rail's share of
freight traffic in their corridor from 32 to about 50 percent-a notable
achievement-traffic has been much less than forecast and over two years
they have lost about US$15 million on billings of about US$42 million. Some
of their problems may be of their own making, while others, e.g. the delay
in the rehabilitation of Bahia Blanca's port facilities, may be the
Government's responsibility and still others, such as disastrous filoods, may
be ordinary business risks. It has requested relief from the Government from
some of the investment obligations assumed with its concession, arguing that
new traffic projections make some of these investments uneconomic. It has
also requested relief, for two years, of obligations regarding rent payments
on the rolling stock used. It is in the disposition of requests of this kind that
12. Given the high level of intragovermmental transfers through tax sharing and other devices
in Argentina, even this change may be more apparent than real.
13. Even the Ente's autonomy will be only limited; its budget is part of that of the Ministry.



- 15 -
the question of whether the regulatory authority is to be politically
independent or not acquires special relevance.
G.   The OHl Scr
1.44 The PE Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) in 1990 accounted
for the direct production of 65 percent of Argentina's crude oil and 80
percent of its natural gas. Moreover, it was the nation's largest refiner and
had in its hands about 50 percent of the distribution and sale of petroleum
products. It had the rights to large sedimentary areas, and it administered
about eighty contracts with private companies for exploration and production.
1.45  It had a strong labor union and considerable overstafflng, but it also
had a technically very competent core staff. Since it essentially produced for
the domestic market, price restrictions--together with the high cost imposed
by the protection of the domestic capital goods industry (Compre Argentino)
and heavy taxation--had prevented sufficient internal generation of funds for
all required exploration and development investment. Nevertheless, its
intrinsic financial situation was much better than that of most other PEs and
it had therefore been used by the Government to borrow some US$4 billion
abroad on the Government's behalf for balance of payments purposes. The
Government's dependence on YPF resources meant that the PE was given
little autonomy; most important financial and operational decisions were
made by the political authorities instead. This also included provincial
governments able to force YPF to undertake uneconomic drilling programs to
create local employment.
1.46 The Government of President Menem considered breaking up YPF
completely and transferring all the constituent parts to the private sector.
This option, which initially had strong pnvate sector support, was discarded
for several reasons; the most important one seems to have been the
consideration that, with the impending exhaustion in the next few decades of
Argentina's oil reserves'4, it would be useful to maintain in existence an
Argentinean integrated company that could, in due time, transfer its search
for reserves reliably available to Argentina, abroad. Another option, a
sectoral government holding company, was also discarded, mainly because of
the fear to create a new and ultimately unviable bureaucracy.
1.47 But major reforms were to be undertaken nevertheless, both in
sectoral policies and in the scope and nature of YPF. Regarding the former,
it was decided to remove price controls, free trade in crude oil and enhance
the opportunities for private sector operations in areas held by YPF. And
regarding the latter, the PE was to shed many of its non-core activities
(aviation, shipping, social programs, etc.), eliminate redundant labor and
then begin to sell shares in the market, eventually reducing the Government's
14. Proved reserves are the equivalent of only nine years of present production levels.



- 16 -
role to that of a minority shareholder in a slimmed down, commercially run
enterprise.
1.48 The Bank Loan supported this program. As in the railroad sector, a
series of key steps were chosen, either for their intrinsic importance or
because they were deemed good indicators of general progress, and were
made conditions of disbursement of another 'floating" sectoral tranche of
US$75 million'5. In addition, a good deal of Technical Assistance was
provided to the sector under PEREL. The conditions in question follow.
(a)   Maintenance of the policy of fully deregulated prices and free
imports and exports of petroleum products (and natural gas).
This condition was met. Prices had already largely been
deregulated as a condition of Board presentation; it is notable
that the deregulation took place during the Gulf war in spite of
strong fears in Argentina of sharp, war-induced price rises.
Initially crude and product prices were tracked monthly by
YPF and reported to the Bank, in accordance with a detailed
classification scheme embedded in a Side Letter to the Loan
Agreement. However, in September 1991 the Bank informed
the Government that henceforth it would focus on crude prices
only: '...so long as crude oil prices are not below international
parity prices, the Bank will consider as met the oil market
deregulation commitments of the Borrower..."'.6
(b)   Execution of production sharing contracts in four YPF central
areas. This condition was met in the first semester of 1991,
i.e., shortly after Board approval. Indeed, it may be
considered over-fulfilled since YPF opted for retaining only a
minority stake in the four areas, which had not been required
by the Loan Agreement.
(c)   Achievement of satisfactory progress in divestiture and
privatization as evidenced by divestiture by YPF of assets with
a sales value of at least US$200 million. The condition was
more than achieved; the assets in question included refineries,
pipelines, and transportation, industrial and drilling equipment.
There was a certain amount of hesitation by the Bank to
declare the condition fulfilled because the Loan Agreement
clause referred to "cash sale value", and on that basis the
condition would not have been met, but this point was
dropped. It is not clear what the purpose of the cash concept
(not included in the earlier drafts of the Loan Agreement) was.
15. Together with the natural gas-related conditions to be described in Section H below.
16. See letter of September 13, 1991, from the Director of Country Departmet IV, Mr. Ping-
Cheung Loh to the Minister of Economy, Dr. Domingo Felipe Cavallo.



- 17 -
(d)   Approval of a new YPF charter providing for financial and
operational autonomy and increasing participation by the
privat  se This condition was met when Law 24.145 was
approved by Congress September 24, 1992. The Law
confirmed an earlier Decree--drafted in consultation with the
Bank--laying out the restructuring and divestiture plan for YPF
and confirming that the Central Government and the provinces
would sell a majority of the share capital. At the time of the
Tranche release the Board was informed that a first share
offering was planned in international financial centers during
the second semester of 1993. In fact, the share offerings
accelerated and, by September 1, 1993, 58 percent of YPF
shares were in private hands.
(e)   Restructuring of all policy making and regulatory agencies in
the oil and gas sectors in terms satisfactory to the Bank.
including the enactment of appropriate legislation to ensure the
administrative, financial and political independence of such
agencies and to enable them to secure qualified staff in
adequate numbers. remunerated in terms substantially
equivalent to private counterparts in such sectors. The
condition was declared as met, even though the Board was
informed, without comment, that "...Pblicy making in the oil
and gas sectors and sectoral promotion is managed by the
Subsecretariat of Fuels..." The sought for autonomy thus was
not achieved. But it should be noted that the Loan condition, to
the extent that it referred to regulatoyr functions was more
applicable to the gas sector (where different arrangements were
made, see below) in which a substantial degree of monopoly
power in transportation as well was production would remain,
than in the oil sector where, with free trade, prices would be
market determined. And broad policy making, as distinct from
regulatory functions, probably always had to remain a
Government prerogative, in spite of the formulation in the
Loan Agreement.
1.49 No comments were made in the report to the Board regarding the
remuneration condition (which is more germane to the gas sector than to oil).
It does not seem to have been supervised or adhered to closely; it is not yet
possible to judge whether this is going to be a source of difficulties.
H.   The Natural Gas Sector
1.50 While YPF controlled most of Argentina's production of natural gas,
another PE, Gas del Estado (GdE) was in charge of all gas transport and
distribution. As a secondary activity GdE also produced and marketed LPG,
ethane and natural gasoline. It made large losses (US$ 650 million during



- 18 -
1985-88). Regulated and irrationally set prices were its major problem. The
Subsecretariat of Energy would fix the transfer price of gas from YPF to
GdE on a monthly basis; the distribution price was determined by the transfer
price plus a fixed treatment, processing and transportation margin, while the
price to the final consumer was based on the type of user, location and
volume, and included 50-55 per cent in taxes shared by the Federal,
provincial and local governments and pension funds. In spite of the tax
burden, final consumer prices were not only much too low--50 percent below
comparable international prices in August 1990 and even less for residential
consumers--so that petrochemical feedstock purchasers received large
subsidies, but they also were set so as to offer no incentive to economize on
transportation costs by drawing more heavily on the fields located closest to
the major markets.
1.51  The Govemment's objective was to integrate the sector as much as
possible into the intemational economy and to introduce the maximum
possible degree of competition into what might have been thought a naturally
monopolistic sector, i.e., the transportation of gas through pipelines. In the
design chosen for the industry, Bank staff and Bank-financed consultants
played a major role.
1.52 GdE was eventually broken up into ten companies; two transmission
line enterprises and eight distribution companies. The former were regional
(Northern and Southern TIrunk Lines) but were so located as to offer
transportation alternatives for gas to be sent from the largest fields--in the
Neuquen Region in Central Western Argentina-to the largest market, i.e.,
the Buenos Aires area. The distribution companies would, eventually,
compete with others--entry into the industry would be free--and would have
an incentive to buy gas in the fields closest to their markets at the lowest
(wellhead plus transport) price. GdE would disappear; prices would be fully
deregulated after a transition period and a regulatory authority would exert
vigilance on the maintenance of competitive practices. Some gas sector
specific conditions were included in the Loan Agreement as prerequisites for
the disbursement of the "floating" oil and gas Tranche. They are described
below.
(a)   Natural gas prices were to reach at least 90 per cent of the
corresponding international levels. This condition was met by
early 1992, and continued to be monitored and met until the
Tranche was released. Subsequent developments, since loan
closing, have not been followed by the Bank as the Loan is no
longer being supervised.
(b)   Privatization of at least two gas distribution systems was to be
completed and tendering for the transmission and remaining
distribution systems was to have been initiated. Ten per cent
of Argentina's gas production was also to have been
privatized, The condition was met ancW exceeded since by the



- 19 -
end of 1992, the entire system--including the required ten per
cent of production--was in private hands. In general, this
privatization--tendering, bid evaluation, contract awarding and
signing--was accomplished more smoothly and frictionlessly
than any of the others. One important feature accounting for
this was that the contracts themselves had to be accepted (price
excluded) at the time of presenting bids; subsequent bargaining
about contracts was thereby virtually ruled out.
(c)   The condition regarding policy making and regulatory
authority for the oil sector was. as noted also aplicable to the
ga sector. For gas it was fulfilled when, in mid-1992 an Ente
Regulatorio was created. Since then, top management
positions have been filled. But there is no experience as yet
with how it will work since, under the terms of the program
agreed with the Bank, prices are still being set by the
Subsecretariat of Fuels and may continue to be so set until
June 1994.
(d)   Sales prices of natural gas to be maintained in each calendar
month at a level of 90 per cent of fuel oil equivalency.  The
condition was met before privatization took place, precisely to
make it possible. It was monitored by the Bank until Tranche
disbursement took place.
L. EVALUATION
1.53 Most, though not all, of the Loan objectives have been achieved and
accomplishments in some important areas have exceeded the original aims
and were achieved faster than originally projected. This is all the more
remarkable as this was a high risk operation for the Bank; there was little
successful past experience to draw on; judged by historical experience the
subject matter of PEs in Argentina was explosive and the danger of great
public embarrassment for the Bank in case of failure could not be
overlooked.
1.54 It would seem that the following are critical elements accounting for
the successful aspects of the operation:
(a)   The most important one is that the very basic policy decision.
to privatize all important PEs. emanated from the Government
without pressure from the Bank. There was no significant
element of "persuasion by dialogue' regarding the
fundamentals, although the Bank played a vital role in helping
the Government carry out the program and in many cases
helped prevent costly mistakes or delays. It was, rather, the
Government that had to persuade the Bank that it could, and



- 20 -
would, stay the course, and it was the Bank that made it
possible for the Government to do so.
CONCLUSION: There is little reason to doubt that this
lesson would have wide applicability in other countries as well.
(b)   Combined with the above was the very prudent behavio[  Qn
the part of the Bank in keeping a low profile. In spite of its
ubiquitous presence through technical assistance financing and
through direct staff advice on many occasions, privatization at
no time became a "World Bank program' in the eyes of either
political circles or the public and the press. It is difficult to
exaggerate the importance of this factor in Argentina.
CONCLUSION: This, too, would seem to constitute a lesson
applicable to such programs generally.
(c)   The large amount of sectoral work done by Bank and
consultants in prior years, specifically in the last years of the
Alfonsfn Government, proved to be invaluable. At the time
when it was done it might have been considered an imprudent
and wasteful use of Bank resources; Argentina's lack of
creditworthiness on the one hand and the bad experience with
the PEs on the other made it seem quite unlikely that this work
would lead to any lending. But as things turned out, it
provided the incoming Administration of President Menem
with a wealth of sectoral diagnostic and prescriptive
information--e.g in the telecommunications and hydrocarbons
sectors--which helped it to convert its initial policy decisions
rapidly into detailed action programs.
CONCLUSION: Thus, making this costly investment in
sector work in the late eighties was a gamble that came offr.j
spite of low odds; no one predicted that a future Government-
and least of all a Peronist one--would adopt the course that
President Menem chose. Whether this is a good basis for the
Bank generally taking such gambles in future is. given the law
of large numbers, rather questionable.
(d)   The perceived, and actual. high quality of the Bank's technical
MMk--by staff, by Bank hired consultants and by Bank
financed T.A. (under PEREL)--and the Bank's willingness to
put unusually large resources into loan formation and
administration also played an important role. lb this must be
added the existence of a highly effective Project Unit. the
manager of which had participated in the loan negotiations and
preceding discussions. and thus was fully conversant with the
intricacies of the issues involved.



- 21 -
CONCLUSION:
(i)    While the need to protect the technical excellence of such Mork
is self evident and applicable to all cases, the need for a
wholehearted commitment of resources once such an operation
is undertaken by the Bank--without excessive concern about
budgetary costs--may not be. If this is not possible. it may be
better not to undertake it at all.
(ii) The advantage of engaging the Head of the Project Unit in
loan formation and negotiation from the beginning also seems
one that is generaUy applicable. In the Argentine case, in
which many agencies were obliged to act in complicated and
difficult ways, it was crucial to have a central focal point
which could do much more than merely transmit the Bank's
messages. Thus, the Unit was able to play a constructive role
to obtain the right kinds of actions in a timely manner, because
it fully understood their relation to the overall design of the
program.
(e)   Related to the above is that the Bank's presence helped short
circuit many otherwise protracted or even insoluble internal
arguments. Disputes on such formal matters as procurement
rules and policies, but also on substantive matters of sector
organization and policies could often be settled by reference to
the Bank's policies or views, essentially because these were
viewed as being technical, objective and disinterested and
because the Bank was generally willing and able to respond
rapidly and constructively when consulted.
CONCLUSION: This role, as noted, could only be played
because, the Bank combined a low profile with a ubiquitous,
unstinting presence and high technical standards. While the
may not always be sufficient conditions for success. there is
every reason to believe that they are necessary condiions.
(f)   The Bank's willingness to innovate adjustment lending and
adapt its usual policies by not objecting to the visible use of
loan funds for severance pay played a critical role in
permitting the railroad privatization program to proceed.
CONCLUSION: Before inferring that such adaptation of
policy is warranted generally, it should be noted that the
context was:
(i)   that very close watch was kept over the total numbers
and over the individuals retired, so that re-hiring was
virtually impossible, and, even more importantly,



- 22 -
(ii)   that it was firmly assumed that shortly after the
retirement program the railroads would be in private
hands and not subject to the political pressures that had
led to the overstaffing of FA in the first place.
Absent these circumstances, it is questionable whether the visible use
of Bank loan counterpart funds for severance pay would have made much
sense.
1.55  While the successes of the operation are impressive, and greatly
outweigh its shortcomings, they are not total or unqualified. The more
disappointing aspects, and their reasons, are explored below.
1.56 As was noted, railroads are the sector in which several specific
Tranche release conditions were not really met. The Board was correctly
informed of this but was given to understand that matters were sufficiently in
hand to expect compliance shortly. Events then turned out differently; the
budgetary transfers to the railroads in 1993 again will be larger than expected
and the actual privatization of freight services took a few months longer than
expected. Progress in the reduction of Buenos Aires passenger service
subsidies has also slowed down. Ultimately, however, the Railway Reform
Program is expected to be completed.
1.57  Regarding the regulatory agencies, most formal conditions were met,
but essentially these only concerned the legal creation of these agencies.
None of them is. as yet. functioning at an adequate level"7. i.e.. is fulfilling
the purpose for which they were set up. Here privatization ran ahead of the
institutions that were thought necessary to oversee what are, after all,
businesses with a good deal of inevitable monopoly power
(telecommunications and gas transport especially, railroads less so).
Moreover, even the regulatory legal framework is still fluid; as noted in
rilroads the functions of the 'autonomous' regulatory body may shortly be
reduced in favor of those of a dependency of a ministry.
1.58 In principle, this experience would seem to suggest that work on the
buildup of the regulatory agencies should have started earlier and should have
been more intensive both before and immediately after the Loan was made.
Altematively, one might argue, that if it was impossible to accelerate the
creation of effective regulatory bodies, the privatization program itself, and
the Bank Loan, should have been delayed. In other words, they should not
have been allowed to outrun the buildup of institutions deemed necessary for
their effective functioning.
17. It should, perhaps, be repeated, that this is not so much a matter of not complying with LAn
covenants, as with observing events after the Loan was closed. But the Rurpo of the covenants
was to create functioning regulatory agencies.



- 23 -
1.59 However attractive and logical the second alternative may sound, it
would not, in fact. have been a viable option. even if it had been considered.
As indicated, the political dynamics of the moment would have made a delay
of, say, one year, in the privatization program self-defeating, however good
the regulatory bodies that might have been created in the meantime. It was
the sense of driving urgency, in a moment of national crisis, which the
Government demonstrated and which the Bank supported, that made the
program possible at all.
1.60 So the real question is whether more could or should have been done
to create. endow. structure. staff and train the regulatory agencies within the
time available. In retrospect, there is little doubt that something more than
was done should have been attempted, both by the Government and by the
Bank. But the possibility of achieving very much better results should not be
exaggerated, Both sides were deeply involved in the innumerable daily,
burning and immediate questions of privatization. These could not but absorb
the attention of the--after all, limited number of--policy makers. It would
have been extremely difficult to argue, at the time, that less attention should
be devoted to the privatization itself and more to the quick buildup of the
regulatory institutions; it is not clear that then the former would have
succeeded, which would have made the latter redundant.
1.61 Of course, this is a matter of degree and of rather subjective ex post
judgments. In future, similar situations, the Argentine experience in this
respect should certainly be borne in mind, and attempts should be made to
focus more attention on what steps must be taken early on not only to create
the Authorities but to have them fully operational by the time that they are
needed, But it should be understood that, while the Bank's role here may be
to "lean against the wind" a little, so as to ensure that this claim on the
Government's attention does not lose out totally, there is a practical limit to
the priority which regulation can be given before the big privatization issues
are settled. It is important that the Bank try to sretch this limit as far as
possible; the danger of having weak or inoperative independent regulators at
the beginning is that this may set a pattern that will be difficult to reverse
later. But it should not be expected that this limit can be removed entirely.
1.62 There is a common thread to the two disappointments under the Loan.
the pace of meeting specific railroad conditionality (and related financial
impact) and the poor showing of the regulatory agencies. It is that the Bank
was no longer a major player well before either issue was resolved. Once the
Loan was disbursed, officially Loan Supervision ceased. The progress (in the
areas mentioned) expected at the time of disbursement did not take place, but
the Bank had no official role any more to either help or warn, cajole or press
for action. Nor did it have an incentive to devote sizable further staff time to
what are, essentially, Project Implementation activities.
1.63  Similarly, the way the disbursement conditionality was structured, tbh
Bank bowed out before the regulatory agencies were to be operational. It is



- 24 -
true that some further conditionality exists under PEREL but (a) the money
involved is relatively little and (b), more important, it makes little sense to
interrupt studies and other T.A. activities by delaying disbursements. in order
to achieve compliance with substantive Loan conditions. The Bank now has
little say in the achievement of one of the important objectives of the Loan:
the creation of effective autonomous regulatory agencies to ensure that
privatized former PEs with significant degrees of monopoly power yield
results reasonably akin to those of competitive markets."8
1.64 There is no wholly satisfactory solution to this dilemma as long as
Quick disbursement remains one of the objectives of such operations.
Continued full supervision after disbursement is not only unacceptably
expensive for the Bank but also questionable on grounds of Bank-country
relations.
1.65  One way to achieve both objectives, of quick transfer of resources and
of full Bank oversight, would be to:
(a)    make the Loan larger;
(b)   generate more critical events triggering tranche
disbursements;
(c)   structure these so that they cover a longer time period
and thus,
(d)   have more disbursement tranches, but of no smaller size
each than under the present formula.
1.66 Specifically, in the case of PERAL I this might have meant a LOan of
US$450 million with the same US$150 million disbursement on effectiveness,
the same two "floating" sector tranches of US$75 million each and an
additional two (or three) tranches of US$75 million (or US$50 million) each,
releasable against specified events in the sectors, particularly in the
institutionalization of the regulatory agencies, (such as, for example, the
issuance of the Reglamento de Servicio of CNT). It would permit the Bank tQ
supervise the Loan for another 12 to 18 months. without an increase in
Supervision costs per dollar lent.
1.67 This is not an ideal solution; a PERAL I Loan of US$450 million
would have been even more venturesome and controversial than one for
US$300 million. And the definition of appropriate targets or actions for the
regulatory bodies, to serve as suitable disbursement triggers, may be
something of a challenge. But the present system. which forces the Bank to
withdraw before the job is fully done. is fraught with the danger o
stagnation or backsliding, and of eventual underachievement of the Bank's
and the Govemment's objectives, even if all covenants were fulfilled.
18   In the meantime, to re-create Bank presence, the preparation of a new regulatory loan
has been initiated.



- 25 -
1.68 There may be other, more ad hoc ways of coping with the problem,
which is essentially to make Loans disbursing in one or two years, for
programs whose true execution period may be five or more years. One such
way might be to follow the Sectoral Adjustment Loan with a related new
Project Investment Loan and tie some of the critical institutional actions into
covenants in the new Loan. It remains to be established, on a case by case
basis, whether the sectors involved with their now privately owned firms,
offer scope for such Investment Loans.
1.69 PERAL I has, as was indicated above, far more success than failure
to record, and even in the Railways sector the retirement of 66,000 workers -
about half of them under a Bank covenant and with Bank financing - is a
macroeconomic advance of major proportions for Argentina. But successes
like the privatization of much of Argentina's public sector are not guaranteed
to be permanent unless a framework with robust institutions is created, in
which the new system can operate. It would seem vital that the Bank stay
with such programs until some real indications of the required robustness
h.ave appeared.



- 26 -
PART II: PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECIIVE
A.   Introduction
2.1   The Public Enterprises Reform Program was initiated in an
atmosphere of clear awareness of the problem created by the deficit history
of these bodies, its serious consequences for the country's macroeconomic
performance, and the fact that the population was inadequately supplied with
goods and services.
2.2   Telephone, railway, power supply, port and other services provided
by public enterprises (PEs) were highly inefficient and created heavy costs
for the industrial and agricultural sectors. Furthermore, the resource drain
on the national budget created by the growing PE deficit made sound
economic and financial management a virtual impossibility.
2.3  In order to cover the financial requirements of this Program, the
Government first of all approached the World Bank for support. Two
missions, one by the World Bank to Buenos Aires in October 1990 and the
other by the Argentine Government (represented by Dr. Luis Prol, Deputy
Secretary for Public Enterprises) to VWashington the following December,
culminated in agreement between the parties on the key points to be
incorporated in the PEREL and PERAL loan documents. These, together
with other materials for presentation to the Executive Directors of the Bank,
were then drawn up in final version.
2.4  In the course of Loan Agreement negotiations, the Argentine
Govemment committed itself to actions in five spheres:
(a)   Actions affecting the public enterprises in general.
(b)   Actions for institutional development of a telecommunications
sector regulatory authority.
(c)   Actions in the hydrocarbons sector.
(d)   Actions in the railway sector.
(e)   Supplemental Letters spelling out commitments regarding
reductions in the PE work force, pricing policies in the gas
sector, and the economic policy program to be instituted.



- 27 -
B.   Achievements in Meeting Commitments
2.5   PE Secto
Undertakings to evaluate the performance of certain PEs (A y E,
YPF, HIDRONOR, Metropolitan Railways) and to develop privatization
plans for others (SEGBA, the Ports Administration, OSN) were quickly
rendered moot by the Government's action to privatize them in fact. This
change in plans was readily consented to by the World Bank.
C.   Institutional Development of a Telecommunications Regulatorg
Authorit
2.6 Under the conditions of privatization, various powers and functions
associated with regulation, monitoring, verification and supervision were
delegated to the regulatory authority. In 1990, prior to signature of the
transfer contracts, Decree No. 1185 created the National Telecommunications
Commission, an entity whose degree of specialization and autonomy of
judgment were to guarantee the development of telecommunications and
protection of the public interest.
2.7 At the present time, CNT is attempting to forge a style that will
enable it to strike a balance among the legal, economic and social interests at
stake: legal predictability, investments in the public network, encouragement
of competition, and customer protection. Its regulatory activities are
expected to consist in the issue of simple, clear and predictable standards that
will enable operators to take economic decisions in an atmosphere of
certainty for the long term-the whole process being not only open and
transparent but also as rapid and flexible as governmental procedures will
permit.
2.8   CNT has introduced a system of public hearings as an efficient
alternative for the treatment of institutional rights which have an impact on
and are of concern to the community. This same process may possibly be
used also as a medium for mediating conflicts-for instance, between
providers and users of services.
2.9  In other words, it is anticipated that regulations prescribing formal
mechanisms by which the public can participate in the supervision process, as
called for under Article 30 of Decree No. 1185/90, will be issued and put
into practice.
D.   Commitments to Action in the Hydrocarbons Sector
2.10  Situation prior to deregulation and privatization
When the deregulation and privatization process began in the oil and
gas sector on October 10, 1989, oil production had been stagnant fbr 20



- 28 -
years at an average annual figure of approximately 25 million e'. YPF,
directly and indirectly responsible for 97.6% of Argentine crude output and
100% of gas output, had lost US$620 million over the preceding decade.
The market for gas had expanded by an astonishing 82% between 1982 and
1990, or at an average annual cumulative rate of 6%. Gas represented 40%
of the country's energy resources, with demand continuing to increase.
However, while it was being vented in the rich fields in the north for lack of
pipelines and storage capacity, in the cities-especially Buenos Aires-Gas
del E:stado, the government-owned monopoly distribution concern, had to
impose rationing during the winter months (when demand is heaviest)
because of insufficient supply.
2.11 The main reason for such poor performance was none other than lhe
authorities' exaggerated and illogical over-regulation of the sector,
monopolized by the two official enterprises and controlled by the Secretariat
of Energy, which decided not only crude, gas and gasoline prices but also the
profit margins allowed all parties active in the sector. In 1990, lhe
government oil company bought 66 million barrels of crude from its
contractors at US$17.93 per barrel, while its selling price to third parties was
US$15.44. Both prices were set by the Secretariat, and in the process YPF
lost US$164 million.
2.12 The Secretariat of Energy was regulating the industry without any
regard to international hydrocarbon prices-not even in the case of crude, an
international commodity whose price is the benchmark by which 9il
companies worldwide judge whether their production costs are feasible or
not. Up until roughly two years ago, the oil business in Argentina was an
entirely domestic one, in which YPF production costs were a State secret and
the Secretariat of Energy set prices in the light of Treasury needs or the
power of the lobby formed by officials or private contractors.
2.13 Deregulation of the market
Between October 1989 and January 1, 1991, the Govemment
deregulated the country's oil industry completely, relying on the 1967
Hydrocarbons Act (which empowered the State to grant exploration and
extraction concessions to the private sector) and on four specific decrees.
2.14 Sale of secondary zones
Between 1990 and 1992, the Secretariat of Energy, in the course of
three separate bidding procedures, awarded a total of 255 marginal zones (in
five basins) grouped into 86 blocks, granting the new licensees 25-year
extraction permits.
2.15 Fifty-nine companies took part in the process, forming a series of
consortiums; although the majority were Argentine firms, there were several
international bidders such as BRMTISH GAS and REPSOL.



- 29 -
2.16 The consortiums bid US$490 million for 209 million m3 or 126
million barrels, with the Treasury finally collecting US$450 million.
2.17 Partnerships in central zones
In 1991 and 1992, YPF organized a series of international competitive
bidding procedures in a search for Argentine or foreign oil companies with
which to enter into partnerships for the development of its richest deposits,
known as "central zones." Each grantee consortium was required to pay a
lump-sum "association fee' before being permitted to begin operations in its
grant zone. Each concession contract, with a duration of 25 years, allocates
output of crude between YPF and its partner in the same proportion as their
percentage holdings in the joint venture.
2.18 Conversion of oil contracts
YPF converted 25 of these development contracts into private
concessions, which account for daily output of 19,703 m3 from deposits
involving a total surface area of 10,140 kM2.
2.19 Reorganization and privatization of YPF
Before part of the capital stock of the state-owned oil company was
offered for sale to the public, a radical internal reorganization took place.
The number of employees was reduced from approximately 40,000 to a mere
10,000, and a further 2,000 were to be retrenched by the end of 1993.
Chronic losses were replaced by profits-US$255 million in 1991 and
US$259 million in 1992. The reorganization and downsizing process alsc
involved the sale of pipelines, refineries, storage facilities, and a huge and
unnecessary mercantile fleet.
2.20 Beginning in July, YPF shares were listed on the New York and
Buenos Aires Stock Exchanges. Sale to the public of 160 million shares, or
45.32% of capital stock, netted the Argentine Government US$3.04 billion.
Is was the largest initial public offering ever seen on the New York Stock
Exchange, where demand exceeded supply by 3 to 1. In Argentina itself,
demand from underwriters exceeded supply by 10 to 1, an indication of the
success of the offer.
2.21  Gas
The privatization of Gas del Estado was more like the sales of other
PEs, Since the distribution of gas is inevitably a monopoly-type public utility
service, the Government decided to subdivide the state-owned enterprise into
eight regional companies ir. order to foster competition. Within its particular
zone eacL of these, companies held exclusive distribution rights. Not only
webI-hea& gar pricer buw also those paid by residential and commercial



- 30 -
consumers are set by the Secretariat of Energy. The Government also
created twv gas transmission companies.
2.22 The privatization of Gas del Estado was a success in terms of the
number of bidders and the value of their offers. Awards were made in
December 1992, after intemational calls for tenders. Ten consortiums
purchased the two transporting/distributing companies for a total of
US$1.541 billion in extemal debt instruments and US$300 million in cash.
2.23 Although the main goal of this reform was to convert the highly
regulated gas sector into a market-oriented one, it was recognized that there
should be an entity to monitor, arbitrate and oversee compliance with the
terms of reference governing the licensees. ENRG (Ente Nacional de
Regulacion del Gas), answerable to the Ministry of the Economy and Public
Works and Services, was therefore created pursuant to Article 50 of Law
24076. It is responsible for: (a) protecting consumer interests; (b)
promoting competition in the sector; (c) encouraging efficient operation of
the energy industry; (d) ensuring that sector firms meet their financial
commitments; and (e) protecting the environment through rational utilization
of natural gas.
2.24 The general direction and management of ENRG is in the hands of a
board of directors consisting of a president, vice president and three other
members. Its key functions are to give effect to and enforce legal and
regulatory provisions governing matters within its jurisdiction, establish
internal administrative systems, recruit and prescribe the functions of its
staff, and impose penalties as stipulated under Law 24076.
2.25 Decree 477/93, issued pursuant to Law 24076, has approved the
nominations of an economist, a lawyer and an engineer as the president and
first and second directors, respectively, of ENRG. A vice president and the
third director have yet to be selected. Board members may be removed from
office only by decision of the President of the Republic and for unsatisfactory
performance.
E.   Results in the Railway Sector
2.26 Argentina's railway operated a 35,000 Km system, and its reforms
stemmed from an annual deficit in excess of US$500 million and a staff
corps numbering roughly 90,000. Not surprisingly, this PE drew the
authorities into a pattern of spiraling borrowings and losses which finally
required radical and innovative solutions.
2.27 The Government committed itself to writing concession contracts with
private sector investors to operate the Urquiza, Mitre and San
Martln/Sarmiento freight lines. Contract award dates were as follows: the
Urquiza line, to Consorcio Ferrocarriles Mesopotdmicos, January 13, 1993;
the Mitre line, to Consorcio Nuevo Central Argentino, which began



- 31 -
operations on December 23, 1992; and the San Martfn/Sarmiento line, to
Consorcio Ferrocarnl Central, on December 29, 1992.
2.28 In addition, although this was not part of loan conditionalities,
concession of the Roca line was awarded to Consorcio Ferrosur Roca on
March 12, 1993, while significant progress has been made toward concession
of the Buenos Aires-Mar del Plata corridor.
2.29 Metropolitan passenger rail services were made the responsibility of a
new company, FEMESA, which is managed and operated independently of
Ferrocarriles Argentinos. The new company was then subdivided into seven
units for privatization. Over the period December 1992-January 1993, the
following pre-awards were made: the Mitre, Sarmiento and Urquiza/SBASE
lines, to Consorcio B. Roggio; the Roca and San Martin lines, to Consorcio
Trainmet; the Belgrano North line, to Consorcio Caminhos de Ferro
Portugueses; and the Belgrano South line, to Consorcio lhinmet.
2.30 As far as the establishment and consolidation of rail sector regulatory
agencies is concerned, the most progress has been made with the National
Railway Regulatory Commission, created by Decree 2339 of December 4,
1992. In February 1993, the Government announced an open competition for
the three director posts on the Commission, attracting 200 candidates;
specialized consultants (Price Waterhouse) were retained to make the
selection, and decisions are expected to be announced shortly. As a separate
matter, the Ministry of the Economy and Public Works and Services now has
under consideration a decree creating the National Rail Transport
Commission.
2.31 The Government has sought expert assistance in deciding how to
structure these two new agencies. For instance, throughout 1992 it had the
advice of the U.S. Federal Railroad Administration on all aspects of railway
safety, and more recently, in 1993, that of a U.S. consulting firm, National
Economic Research Associates. In June 1993, this firm submitted its final
report, entitled 'Recommendations for the Organization and Structure of the
National Railway Regulatory Commission and National Rail Transport
Commission," a document which sets out the mandate and functions of each
agency in detail, provides a professional profile and job description for every
post, prescribes the agency's structure and staffing, and formulates a plan of
action for its first year of activity.
2.32 With regard to rail concessions in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan
Area, the Government, through Decree 1143 of June 3, 1991, ratified the
Agreement between the Ministry of the Economy and Public Works and
Services and the Municipality of the City of Buenos Aires, an instrument
calling for creation of a Buenos Aires urban transit authority, to be
responsible inter alia for monitoring and supervising the suburban rail
concessions. As the tripartite character of such an agency (State/City of



- 32 -
Buenos Aires/Province of Buenos Aires) required that it be created by act of
Congress, the necessary Bill was submitted to the legislature in the 1992
second half, has been passed by four Senate committees (including that with
jurisdiction in transport matters), and is now due to be debated in full
session.
2.33 In conclusion, Argentina's railway reform program has been a most
profound railway transformation. Four years into the reform program, the
following was achieved:
*     Freight services were concessioned to five different private
concessionaires without any government subsidy. The sixth
railway freight operator still is a state-owned corporation;
*     highly subsidized intercity passenger services were reduced by
two thirds, in terms of train-km, and transferred to the
provinces;
*     the suburban passenger services in the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Region were being transferred (pre-awards
already made) to three private concessionaires;
*     total railway employees had been reduced to 30,000,
considering both private and public operators; and
*     the National Government's subsidy to the railway system
projected for 1994 was cut to a fraction of what was required
five years before.
F.    Results under Supplemental Letters
2.34  Economic policy commitments
In February 1991, following a period of economic instability, the
Government instituted a stabilization and reform program more radical and
far-reaching than any attempted previously. It was described in the
Economic Policy Memorandum sent to the IMF on June 28, 1991
(EBS/91/107) in support of a request for EFF benefits.
2.35 These commitments were largely the same ones the Govemment had
entered into with the World Bank, which had been endorsed in Economic
Minister Domingo Cavallo's Letter of Development Policy to the Bank on
March 6, 1991.



- 33 -
2.36 Commitments to downsize PE staff
Undertakings were given to cut 30,000 from the staff of Ferrocamiles
Argentinos by March 1992, and a further 6,000 from other PEs by the same
date. Actually, there will be nearly 100,000 voluntary retirements from PEs
by the end of 1993, not counting attrition and transfers to the private sector.
2.37 Commitments on gas grces
The goal of bringing natural gas prices to at least 90% of international
levels was achieved by early 1992.
G.   Evaluation
2.38 Bank Performance
Eroect aDZroriateness
The Bank's conception of the project was extremely sound, in the
sense that the appropriate and well-timed support that was consistently
available made it possible to meet project goals effectively.
2.39 Design. oganization. management
The fact that the design of this large-scale project, as well as its
organization and management, were successful can be attributed not just to
the Bank's experience in this sphere but also to the degree of job stability
among the Bank staff responsible for the managerial and administrative
aspects of the loan, which meant consistency in the way the operations
committed to by both parties were carried out and in the way results were
evaluated.
2.40 Interim goals achieved at the various stages of the action programs the
Government was committed to were correctly evaluated, eliciting judicious
and level-headed comments from Bank staff in all instances, an attitude they
also displayed when making recommendations for remedial action or
commenting on steps taken by the Government beyond what loan
conditionality required.
2.41 Bank staff monitored progress with the project continuously and
directly, through daily telephone conversations and frequent aide-memoires
throughout the execution period. In addition, the Coordination Unit was
treated by both Bank and Government as an essential communications link.
These factors in combination gave rise to ongoing dynamic feedback, which
enhanced decision-making and the development of a consensus view.



- 34 -
2.42 Another important factor in the success of the project was the
technical assistance financed by the Bank through the Public Enterprise
Reform Execution Loan (PEREL). In utilizing the proceeds of this lending
operation, the Government followed the guidelines for World Bank borrowers
on the hiring of consultants. It was also able to rely at all times on advice
and guidance from the Bank on how to ensure the best use of technical
assistance resources; this meant that help was available when needed not only
with consulting contracts and related arrangements but also with design and
technical aspects of the various actions to which it had committed itself.
H.   Borrower Performance
2.43 Approach. coordination. management
The Government discharged its responsibilities with very considerable
success. Its general approach was one of determination to achieve project
objectives and comply with loan conditionalities. The fact that objectives and
goals were achieved with rapidity and thoroughness can be attributed to the
resolve and firmness of purpose with which it took necessary policy
decisions.
2.44 Section 2.03 of the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
(PERAL) Agreement set December 31, 1993, or a subsequent date consented
to by the Bank, as the project closing date. However, all loan commitments
had been met and the final disbursement of loan proceeds made on or before
February 12, 1993, 10 months prior to the date estimated originally.
2.45 Nevertheless, in a number of instances, where progress made had
considerably exceeded set goals, the Government was reluctant to adapt its
actions to commitments assumed. Accordingly, the Bank was asked to be
flexible in evaluating overall achievements, which went beyond what the
Government had committed to. This was understandable, given the
magnitude and scope of the project, the degree to which its constantly new
effects were interrelated, and the requirements attaching to loan
conditionality.
2.46  Sructur
The Govemment's task was made easier with the appointment of an
alternate to the national project director, who was a Secretary or Deputy
Secretary in the Ministry of the Economy. This meant that the program
could be carried out in a more dynamic and less time-consuming fashion,
even though a series of appointees served in the director position. In
addition, combination of the coordinator and alternate director functions
meant it was no longer necessary to have the signature of a Secretary of State
before administrative decisions essential to project progress could be
obtained.



- 35 -
2.47 Execution and management
The Government performed adequately where project administrative
and managerial requirements were concerned. As commitments were met,
information and confirmation to this effect were forwarded to all operational
and administrative units concerned, together with supporting audit data. This
broad range of information, whether provided at once or at regular intervals,
was instrumental in making a consistent whole of the varying expectations of
officials involved in the project.
I.    Project Relationship
2.48 The relationship between the Govemment and the Bank was one of
mutual understanding, especially regarding the Government's determination
to push ahead with the Public Enterprise Privatization Program. The general
similarity of views among members of the project economic team, and the
fact that there was little tumover among the Bank staff assigned to the project
originally, were important contributions to the easy relation between the
parties.
2.49 Another major element in the positive outcome of this whole venture
was the technical assistance program, which played such a large part in
successful identification of the technical problems that would have to be
solved during the course of the project.
2.50 From the project management viewpoint, Bank staff aide-memoirs and
Government progress reports, given the interaction they created, contributed
very largely to the climate of understanding between the parties and helped to
vitalize the project execution process. Every progress report was distributed
simultaneously to all government departments and agencies involved in the
program and to the World Bank. This meant that all parties concerned were
kept abreast with the status of the project and aware of what activities were
to be undertaken to ensure that commitments were fully met.
J.    Lessons Iearned and Conclusions
2.51 The main lessons learned at different points in the course of this
project, with possible implications for other projects, were as follows:
2.52 As initially formulated, the conditions on which the loan was based
were acceptable and defined within the framework constituted by the program
the Government had undertaken to carry out. However, the overall
objectives of Public Enterprise Reform were considerably expanded to
include more actions than had initially been agreed to with the Bank. Thus
expanded, the project program, while incorporating objectives more
ambitious than the original ones, postponed some of the original goals



- 36 -
specified in the clauses of the Loan Agreement. In other words, whereas it
had actuaUy achieved broader objectives than originaUy planned, the
Government appeared not to have fully met goals it had committed itself to
contractuaUy. The commitments to privatize the Urquiza, Mitre, San Martin
and Sarmiento freight lines were rapidly outstripped by the privatization of
other freight lines; however, although in practice more kilometers of line had
been privatized than the terms of the contract specified, the World Bank
reported a failure of compliance.
CONCLUSION: In future, loan conditionality clauses should be drafted in
such a way that results can be analyzed in terms of actual accomplishments
rather than under a restrictive interpretation of one isolated condition. This
is particularly clear in the case of Schedule 4, Clause I(a), which refers to
privatization of the Urquiza, Mitre, San Martfn and Sarmiento freight lines
but makes no reference to similar operations affecting other freight lines.
2.53 The Government, in a Supplemental Letter, undertook to retrench
30,000 PE staff as a prerequisite for disbursement. This created financing
difficulties which led into a vicious circle: loan proceeds were available but
could not be accessed for lack of means to fund voluntary severance
arrangements.
CONCLUSION: Clauses of this type require either that the Government
clearly provide a financial solution in its budget as a prior requirement, or
that the Bank make partial disbursements in step with the Government's
progress in meeting such a condition. Had it been possible to make monthly
retrenchments of railway personnel and receive commensurate disbursements
at the same time, execution of this component of the project would have gone
ahead more rapidly and efficiently, while the social impact of such drastic
measures would have been mitigated.
2.54 The Government undertook to rescind or amend its Compre Argentino
legislation, which meant that the Congress had to pass a Bill to this effect in
order for proof of compliance to be available.
CONCLUSION: As far as possible, future loans should not include clauses
when compliance with them would depend on actions to be taken outside the
sections of the Executive Branch from which the project has originated, as
this gives rise to delays and requires the use of practices and procedures not
well understood in other sections, with the result that lengthy and
burdensome negotiations become necessary.
2.55 Under a Management Service Agreement between the Government
and the United Nations Development Programme (ARG/911R01), the latter
provided assistance with project components linked to implementation of the
Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (PEREL), which in turn supported
implementation of the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL).



- 37 -
Consequently, one of these programs cannot be examined unless the other is
also taken into account.
2.56 The pace of privatization which the Government imposed made it
difficult to comply strictly with UNDP procurement standards in obtaining
consulting services. Over the course of the project, efforts were made by the
Government, the World Bank and UNDP to reconcile that pace with the
established standards and procedures. However, on a number of occasions
steps taken by the Coordination Unit to facilitate decisions and goal
achievement inevitably resulted in failures in this regard.
2.57 These failures can also be attributed in part to high staff turnover in
the UNDP office in New York that was dealing with the Coordination Unit,
and to the limitations under which UNDP's Procurement Services Office
must function, particularly the lack of delegation of decision-making
authority to the local UNDP office.
CONCLUSION: In light of this experience, it would appear that
Management Service Agreements with UNDP should be relied on only to the
extent that their operational clauses can be successfully negotiated with the
agency.
2.58   From the time that disbursement of loan proceeds began, the project
had the services of a Coordination Unit, headed by the alternate project
director, an arrangement which not only helped save time whenever the
project director position was vacant but also meant that business could be
transacted without recourse to higher authorities.
CONCLUSION: Under future projects, the head of the Coordination Unit
should be involved in negotiations from the outset, in addition to serving as
alternate project director. If at the same time the operating functions of that
Unit are clearly indicated in its terms of reference, then there is a very good
chance the execution process will prove successful.
2.59 As noted above, the Loan Agreement was considered to be completed
roughly a year prior to the date anticipated originally, and therefore Bank
supervision missions as well. Although this can be interpreted as a mark of
successful performance, the view in some government circles was that it
amounted to a premature withdrawal of necessary World Bank support for
the achievement of goals which, while not matters of direct contractual
obligation, were certainly logically connected with the program as a whole.
CONCLUSION: Under any future Loan Agreement associated with the
execution of a specific program, thought should be given to providing for the
Bank's commitment to continue for a period dictated more by the
requirements of full program development than solely by the strict letter of
the Loan Agreement itself.



- 38 -
2.60 The privatizations achieved have pointed up the need for definitive
solutions in the case of such important matters as residual entities, regulatory
agencies, and last but not least disposal and liquidation of the surplus assets
and remaining real estate holdings of Ferrocamiles Argentinos.
CONCLUSION: The Government and the World Bank should consider
developing new programs consisting of actions needed as a direct
consequence of the policies that have been instituted, since the present
vacuum in this regard is creating problems for the Government. Such
programs would focus on:
(a)   technical assistance with disposal of the residual entities;
(b)   technical assistance for the regulatory agencies;
(c)   technical assistance with developing uses for and/or organizing
the sale of government-owned real estate.
K.   Summary
2.61 Only with hindsight will it be possible to form an accurate opinion as
to the real achievements and reach of the Public Enterprises Reform Program
undertaken by the Argentine Government during the Menem presidency.
However, some of its immediate consequences may be noted:
(a)   elimination of the fiscal deficit as a result of the reduction in
Treasury transfers to PEs;
(b)   higher investment levels and higher technology levels in the
privauzed sectors;
(c)   far-reaching changes in the public sector, greater rationality in
the utilization of resources, and more efficient management in
those areas which are the natural preserve of govemment.



- 39 -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLE1TON RE3POT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL I (LOAN 3291-AR)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
(in USS milnions)
3.1    Loans Approved Prior to or Concurrent with Loan 3291-AR
Loan   Fiscal                                                                    Amount Iea   Undisburs
#  Year           Borrwer                          Purpose              cancellations     ed'
2592   1985      Yacimieutos Petrolfferos Fiscales   Gas Utilization and TA            180.00       10.10
2712   1986      Argentina                       Public Sector Mgmt.                    18.50       0.00
3292   1991      Argentina                       Public Enterprise Reform               23.00       12.55
Execution Loan
3362   1991      Argentina                       Public Sector Reform TA                23.00       19.28
3394   1991      Argeutina                       Public Sector Reform                  325.00       0.00
TOTAL                                              569.50 |    41.93
As of Jun 30, 1993.
3.2    Loans Approved After Loan 3291-AR
Loan   Fiscal              Borrower                         Purpose               Amount les    Undisbun
#      Year                                                                     cancellations     ed'
3556    1993    Argentina                        Second Public Enterprise Reform      300.00      100.03
3558    1993    Argentina                        Financial Sector Adjustment         400.00       194.83
TOTAL                                       |    700.00      294.86
As ofJune 30, 1993.



- 40 -
BwProject Ilmetable
ITEMS                DATE           DATE
PLANNED    ACTUAL
Identification (EPS)     Early 1988      1987-1990
Appraisal Mission        Late 1988       Oct. 90
Loan Negotiations                        Dec. 10, 1990
Board Approval           Mid 1989        Feb. 02, 1991
Loan Signature                           Aug. 04, 1991
Loan Effectiveness                       Jun. 21, 1991
Loan Closing                             Feb. 17, 1993
Loan Completion                          Feb. 17,193.
C. Loan Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENIS
(US$ million)
FY91          FY92          FY93
Appraisal Estimate      150.00        225.00        300.00
Actual                  144.98        151.57        300.00
Acta ast 0% of Finance   196.70        67.40:        1t 0-00..00
D)    Dates of Tranche Disbursements
TRANCHE             DATE
First            Jun. 21, 1991
Railway          Dec. 17, 1992
Hydrocarbon      Feb. 17, 1992



- 41 -
E.   Project Costs and Flnancini
3.3   Project Costs
(in US$ million)
l    APPRAISAL ESTIMATE    |          ACUAL
___  Ibtal'             1             300.0             I        360.0
1 Costs were represented by severance payments for railway staff. Such costs were financed by
the counterpart proceeds of the Bank loan.



F. Status of Covenants
Trww_.                    Type. Lqa Apein                     sacie.                                                    DuitBi                                                     C u I I
Vet                                  Suppleu.mml Limi                                        Raducs _l -f by 12,50.                                     .                            I
LAW Agrodio_                 5.01(4                    Cm1e   omm  cm i  Re-Behia Bboom Caw Lme                                                        lba-
LAm AgrueM                   5.01(h)                   CmikwAad oce.ym wdh diapibma d crlude mud peIzeIem~ prodad pons,mm.bk%g hs~  e'm                YL.
mud inpMS.
biIaq             Smut Specifc      51pk811 LAmW                                            Rhducei_  a"ly 17.50.                                                                          lb.
LAmm Areemml                 Scheodulo 4. I(s)         The Dorrr We smagod cmoomem               WA uihpead eacitlevra   qpa  Urquan. Idars            Yak mulmoisk.
_ ISn tm  teSarii@ muluAy caw Eno.
Lmoi Apmemnad                Schedule 4. l(b)          l. DBotyinse  fewpuie  do. fumes Aim  metrapL> pamupt umivy mwv                                lb.
LAvm Aprseam                 Sdadle4. I(b)ai)          A a-  smileqr eompo_ (adtmitweky mud qesubeil  sadepoudm  fn RV be be  Imp*                    Ysh
.blfieue  mud u  pato such melrpcbam raaway aMMyLo._ _____
LAw AgremAd                  Schedul 4. [(h#)Oi)       The Bornmee be mbhlebMA   a mfle"y binu  a&ihwriy. wA SAmism  mud respinhlflu       my          s.
so toe bank. to iuples doe provisimi d  Aurbsub  psigi saweb  le di. hu     Aim mnipqun
am.
C'4                                       ~~~~~~~~~             ~       ~~~~~~~Lam Apeemd  Schm*jle 4.1l(c)  no. BDhsw r  m6dweoa puwiicacl mi ledi .dwd  hew Irmimf   I pd  pbe, nohdmoy b       V..
do Rnk. for to i.  rmeduicwation d all public skabidi  (ewkmhag susiie vqicd aJood b
_____________    smaneileme) to doe Biuim Abe mirvopube muiwmy peessinift aers  frema di. 1990 shsidy 1b.k
LAin Agreemmu                Schabdo 4. I(d)           The Benonar md le bows agreed an a nAWiA   pha be i -  be miIvq pm~            YmIua           1.
____________    icbsdug ahmiiuus  or bmndet to aknnuiw upitrm  dsf ag o-.smmielmud  mysewdublesr
Lm Apsemad                   Schedule 4. I(*)          The Bitemur be astobihee a om a railweay asbitery. wW fiinb= mud r.yoohsha  mobosoy            Y..
______________                           ~~~~~to iw Bank. to freguhu die prwuia d suillay aesvum 6rousghat Axgsibe
Ouaufl             Supplems.m  Ltaw                                       Reduce sueik t.   w public atrphim  by 6.lX                                                     Ye..
Objectiv-
D-OveqM-A Policy Limer                                 Buitd up segubasy coqbilawi   d Telecom Reguhamy Conmnvabe.                                    V..
i-em Agreemmu                Schedul 1. Pamn. 6(a)     NWlANCIS    d a emoreewaoewi polic fm=wk cuosmiad wi~die &objeclive d die hpaumum              'he
LAmm Apvumat                 Schedul 4. H1(a) mad      Sipleg d pshnc  aeermuen   widk Ape y Emeele YPP. Hldmeldciim N*apm%mpiw6 mud                  Y..
111(b)                   &mew Aire Mw%mpoban blaps ad eppreml d pdeuiadim pb. Sat SaMom Mcbim de  s
_________________                         flu~~~Bme. Aire. Aseciaclin (Iaseu de PummUs. mud Obme Smbtlee deab Necd
Low Apemeda                  Schedul 4, M1(c)          Repeal it  an-u    d 'Cq    Ar  dWlegilationo   mA   acd  mbim                  b    Oh  bt     VOL
____________    alimbe pr4euom, or rsbwecia. bead an bodamul urig d god.                                          _____
LAm Apesind                  Sedule 4.11(d)            Mhgmaby md a-buigbi a1lcomm to Pwmraslea Az m                  ad to mend MM5  =T     md       V..
____________                             ~~~~~~US$250 mMia mquitom~ &wikg 1991 md I9P2    acuiveW_ __ _ _
LAW A pemu                    Mchduls 4, M(s)          BiW .1 budry md mom badgemey I   e to (h e A   LowdHie    1WJ.L                                 VOL



F. Status of Covenants (Cont.)
1Tumb.                      TMp at LqaI Ap.mo                     Boca=mim                                                                                                                 ____
Hl dRaazb          3 S   , Sw 3pc1L     LA    A    _eemnt S            IA S.c_   3.05             law      W    l go pnom..
LAmn Ap.cmmn                   Scheduia 4. U(s)           bbueme  of policy at Miy davegudad pie    d lug humk mpm              b m   arm   muds .1, aau
_________                    - I    nd eata  pm
Lm  Agm                        Schedule 4. llb)           Exocufmm at L duc6, 110bg              in fuz YPF ce&W aDm                                           Yin
LAmm Agreemet                  Schedule 4, 1(c)           Achiawe   at d    6csmy pr        i dihim md priutantie  d YP  md O   dm Eible i                      *i.
.id.aced by I) divmilen a( YPW  iaibg vsha uha at USS3IO millioa ii) wmdeea d go
banmisinm  mad dietrlhslma mad complehtion of priwoinofm a t    tanm pa dimnltkbhe  ryam  mad
iii) b der to the pAiwme ee"w  at lha  10% d A=%ig    's tusl pm preuctie.
L,me Agremnt                   Schedule 4, 11(e)          Appsmal fw   YPF denter pauvidmg w fleI a  admutrvm uienmqr mad  Ya                    g     _ _       m 
particiqm   o dw pn%e  rct
LAn AVreemet                   Schedule 4, 11(f)          Policy emk    and regulety agenci_ m oil mdp  to be retrucured  mtctoy to tlw  mL 
Lon Agrezeet                   Schedule 4, 11(g)          Sale pnacs of mIuml pa slaB be s1 i          imd ,       each calmader menIb, ga ImAi <f 90S d hel ai Yln
Ovbmie              LAn Agement                     Schedule 1, t a. 60 )  _       e         d *a n_cre k polic famma    em&WM wikh the _bjeohivs t dtl Prep...
_______   ~ObjectIi%-esZ



- 44 -
G. Use of Rak Rmowm
3.4 Staff lpu
Stage of Project Cycle                                  Planned      |         Fual
MhzO  Appmiai                                                                                23.0                 491.9
Appair l Thugh Boazd Appoval                                                                132.0                  47.2
Bouad Apptrval lhrough Effectiveneas                                                          7.0                  10.9
Sazp.rvian                                                                                   46.0                  503
TOWb                                                                                        208.0                 612.3
3.5 Miaoa
Stap of Project Cycl        MonihPbar        Number of         Dys in           Specialintion        Prfbnnauce
Persona          Fied'           Represenad'         Rating Ststus
9/33                 S             14              a,lcb,ejf.g
10/8t                 2              7                      b
11/t                13             19              &,cb,e,f,
Tb      Appa;"l
4189        .         I             a                      f
3/39                  1            10                          _
10/39                  3            17                 a,b,d,h
6/90                  1             9                      h
Appanal Thmuh Borald
Approval                                10/90                 1              5                      i
1/91                 2              2                     ij
BoUzd Appi.J   ugh                      3/91                  5              5               a,e,b,c,g         2
Effectiua"                              5191                  6              6                      b         N.A.
7/91                 2             10                    a,b         N-A-
11191                 4             11                 a,b,e,d         2
Supavirion                              5/92                   1             2                      b         N.A.
792                   1             7                      .         N.A.
11/92                 2              7                    e,8           1
'Rdr to TM/Mission Leader
2K   to Specializtion:
a. ksk M-
b. Hydrocarbons Expert
c. Telecorn-nnications Expert
d. Telecomminications Regulatory Expert
a. Railway Expert
f. Financial Analyst
g. Industrial Economist
h. Industri  Specialist
i. Division Chief
j. Country Department Director



H.  mect PmrnfoLFundIn
(in US$ thousand)
I7N2A     2592-Al J_             Ia                    m            P1 m      W"   nAL _      Wi .   .mm
c    _am         ..wr      GUTA    ax       Ofa      ESsbu    at Tnd-    Pan fo     MRApLlul prims mb          P"".L tr am"
I  I       I      I '       I~~~~Ncf  RI"$~   Ea1omd            Appmaaai J   wjviu   j   appaiual    pani
Fbe MWm                 170                                                                                                        201  _. ..    90  2U0
iffoSy_         laG               I    I           I         I z   l               .          I             I            Ig l20
bhhom                  II                      I                   I                        ___                         __ I
p dn-Ibmc a                                                                                           _            --      130             130
3cd jgk  d YPF                     1.100             5                                                                             10G    1,700
Reinucaaq d o PAG          2M0                                                                                            400      170    1,70
Privsiztim d ENbI          500                                          25                      50            500                  ISO    1675
abbohi    d CNT                                                                                                           100              10
Lb M     _q     y I         50  so                                                              250           250                   60     610
CeM C=aWk      il U.k                                                                                                     120       50     170
ma RqmIsy A Tkif                                    650       100                                                                 o50     50
TAL                       1.3      5,100 E3         1.150      100       45           15S 7                              750      6        5
The PPP before appraisal was arranged under the then proposed PERL. Subsequently, PERL was split into two separate loans;
(PEREIJPERAL) the initial PPF will be repaid under PERAL.



