Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3291-AR 
Loan Agreement
(Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 8, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3291-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1991, between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 6, 1991 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of key sectors of the Borrower's economy through, inter alia, 
the privatization and reform of public enterprises (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports required during 
such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General  Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement.";
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(c)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"Austral" and "A" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"YPF" means Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales, the Borrower's National 
Petroleum Company;
(d)
"GdE" means Gas del Estado, the Borrower's National Gas Company;
 
(e)
"FA" means Ferrocarriles Argentinos, the Borrower's National Railway 
Company;
(f)
"Urquiza" means the passenger railway line of standard gauge of 
approximately 3,130 kms covering the Borrower's Provinces of Entre Rios, Corrientes 
and Misiones (excluding the Suburban services of the Metropolitan area of Buenos 
Aires);
(g)
"Mitre" means the railway line of approximately 5,011 kms;
 
(h)
"San Martin" means the railway line of approximately 4,773 kms mainly 
covering the Provinces of Santa Fe, Cordoba and Tucuman;
(i)
"Sarmiento" means the railway line of approximately 706 kms operating 
west of the City of Buenos Aires;
(j)
"Rosario-Bahia Blanca" means the railway line of approximately 5,331 kms, 
as defined in Resolution No. 336/90, dated June 15, 1990, of the Ministry of Public 
Works and Services of the
Borrower;
(k)
"PPFs" means the project preparation advances granted by the Bank to the 
Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated March 29, 1990 and April 23, 1990; and 
August 10, 1990 and
August 16, 1990, respectively;
(l)
"PEREL" means the Loan Agreement (Public Enterprise Reform Execution 
Project) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank;
(m)
"Compre Argentino legislation" means the Borrower's Decree-law No. 
5340/63 and Law No. 18875, dated December 23, 1970, their regulations, and all 
amendments thereto;
(n)
"Public Enterprise" means an enterprise or entity with independent 
Page  3
patrimony and juridical personality of which a majority of the outstanding voting 
stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the 
Borrower, any of its agencies or other public enterprise;
(o)
"AyE" means Agua y Energia Electrica, a national water and power company 
of the Borrower; 
(p)
"Hidronor" means Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica, a power generation company 
of the Borrower;
(q)
"SEGBA" means Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires, the power 
distribution company of the Borrower for the Province of Buenos Aires;
(r)
"OSN" means Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion, the water and sanitation 
company of the Borrower; and 
(s)
"AGP" means Administracion General de Puertos, the Borrower's port 
administration entity.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the PPFs withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and 
to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of 
the PPFs shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
Page  4
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Not later than the 15th of each month, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, on the prices of crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas in effect 
during the last two preceding months in Argentina. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
Page  5
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish, by not later than January 1, 1992, 
and thereafter maintain, a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for determining the sale 
price of natural gas, such system to include, inter alia, mechanisms to ensure that 
the sale price of natural gas for industries, power stations and the commercial sector 
shall be, in each calendar month, equivalent to at least ninety percent of the average 
price charged for fueloil, at caloric equivalent, in the respective calendar month 
immediately preceding.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the PEREL have been 
fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
that the Borrower has maintained its policy of full deregulation of 
prices and free imports and exports of crude oil and petroleum products, provided in 
the Borrower's Decree No. 1212, dated August 11, 1989, in terms satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(c)
that the Bank, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, is satisfied: 
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and 
(ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and
(d)
that the Borrower has executed concession contracts with private sector 
investors to operate the Rosario-Bahia Blanca Line.
Section 5.02. The date July 8, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Economia of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121952 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Carlos Ortiz de Rosas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Pieter P. Bottelier
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds 
and to repay the principal amount of the PPFs withdrawn and outstanding and all unpaid 
interest and charges thereon, all in accordance with the allocation of the interestrs 
proceeds of the Loan set forth in the Table below (the Table):
Page  7
                                           Amount of the
                                           Loan Allocated
                                           (Expressed in
      Category                            Dollar Equivalent)
(1)   Amount of the Loan to be              150,000,000
      disbursed on or after
      the Effective Date
      (including all amounts
      due under the PPFs and
      to be paid as provided
      in Section 2.02 (b) of
      this Agreement)
(2)   Amount of the Loan to be               75,000,000
      disbursed on or after the
      Effective Date subject to
      the provisions of para-
      graphs 4 and 6 of this
      Schedule
(3)   Amount of the Loan to be               75,000,000
      disbursed on or after
      the Effective Date
      subject to the provisions
      of paragraphs 5 and 6 of
      this Schedule
      TOTAL                                 300,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
 
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares (including
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates);
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$60,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after October 1, 1990;
Page  8
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption;
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs; and
(h)
any imports eligible for financing under the Loan unless the Borrower 
shall have furnished to the Bank a statement from independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank showing in terms satisfactory to the Bank that such imports: (i) have been 
paid for; and (ii) have entered into the country.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.
Without limitation or restrictions to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 6 of 
this Schedule, no withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) of the Table, 
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (b) that the 
actions described in paragraph I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 6 of 
this Schedule no withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (3) of the Table, 
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (b) that the 
actions described in paragraph II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
Further to the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Schedule, withdrawals 
under Categories (2) and (3) of the Table shall be made only if the Bank shall be 
satisfied after the exchange of views referred to in such paragraphs 4 and 5, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that: (a) the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (b) that the actions 
described in paragraph III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 above, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions 
taken are not satisfactory or that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower 
is not consistent with the objectives of the Program, and, within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory 
to the Bank, or the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower shall have not 
become consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Bank may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
8.
To the extent practicable withdrawal applications shall be consolidated so as to 
apply for withdrawal amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning on September 1, 1996
Page  9
through March 1, 2008
12,500,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
Page  10
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Business; 
or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank;
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except 
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered 
appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
(c)
by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more than one supplier.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such 
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support withdrawal 
applications in respect of such contract.
5.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
I.
Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
 
(a)
The Borrower has executed concession contracts with private sector 
investors to operate the following railway cargo lines Urquiza, Mitre, San Martin and 
Sarmiento.
Page  11
(b)
(i) The Borrower has reorganized the Buenos Aires metropolitan passenger 
railway services; (ii) a new railway company (administratively and operationally 
independent from FA) has been legally established and is operating such metropolitan 
railway services; and (iii) the Borrower has established a railway transit authority, 
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to regulate the 
provision of suburban passenger services in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area.
(c)
The Borrower and relevant provincial and local authorities have formally 
approved a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the gradual reduction of all public 
subsidies (excluding subsidies explicitly allocated to maintenance) to the Buenos 
Aires metropolitan railway passenger services from 1990 subsidy levels.
(d)
The Borrower and FA have agreed on a rationalization plan for interurban 
railway passenger services, including elimination or transfer to alternative operators 
of all non-essential and unprofitable services.
(e)
The Borrower has established a national railway authority, with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to regulate the provision of railway 
services throughout Argentina.
II.
Action referred to in paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
 
(a)
The Borrower has maintained its policy of full deregulation of prices and 
free imports and exports of crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas provided in 
the Borrower's Decree No. 1212, dated August 11, 1989.
(b)
The Borrower has executed legally valid and binding production sharing 
contracts in the four central areas of YPF put up for tender pursuant to the 
provisions of the Borrower's Decree No. 1216/90 dated June 26, 1990.
(c)
The Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank in its 
program of divestiture and privatization of YPF and GdE including: (i) the divestiture 
to the private sector of a significant number of YPF's service and downstream business 
units with an aggregate cash sale value equivalent to at least two hundred million 
dollars; (ii) tendering of GdE's distribution and transmission systems in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank and completion of the privatization process in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank of at least 2 natural gas distribution areas with aggregate 
distribution volume equivalent to at least 25% of GdE's total sales; and (iii) the 
transfer to the private sector for their free disposability of at least 10% of 
Argentina's total natural gas production.
(e)
The Borrower has formally approved a new charter for YPF, satisfactory to 
the Bank, providing for a corporate structure allowing for administrative and 
financial autonomy from the Borrower and increasing ownership participation of the 
private sector.
(f)
The Borrower has restructured all policy making and regulatory agencies 
in the oil and gas sectors in terms satisfactory to the Bank, including the enactment 
of appropriate legislation to ensure administrative, financial and political 
independence of such regulatory agency or agencies and to enable them to secure 
qualified staff in adequate numbers, remunerated in terms substantially equivalent to 
private counterparts in such sectors.
(g)
The Borrower has adopted and maintained the system referred to in Section 
3.05 of this Agreement.
III.
Actions referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
 
(a)
The Borrower has approved and signed performance agreements with AyE, 
YPF, Hidronor and the Buenos Aires metropolitan railway services, satisfactory to the 
Bank, such agreements to include performance targets which are transparent and 
monitorable on an expost basis and provide for incentives and penalties applicable to 
public enterprises management.
(b)
The Borrower has formally approved plans acceptable to the Bank to 
privatize and/or restructure SEGBA, AGP and OSN.
(c)
The Borrower has repealed or amended the Compre Argentino legislation or 
has taken any other action satisfactory to the Bank to eliminate any preferences or 
restrictions based on the national origin of goods to be applied in the procurement of 
goods or services.
Page  12
(d)
The Borrower shall have allocated in its budgets for 1991 and 1992, as 
budgetary and extra budgetary transfers (other than transfers for severance payments 
to employees) to FA, including the Buenos Aires metropolitan railway services, an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $350,000,000 and $250,000,000, 
respectively.
(e)
The Borrower shall not have made any budgetary or extra budgetary 
transfers to GdE in its budget for 1992.
