Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2032-MA
FILE Uupy
MALAYSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 12, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00           =       M$ 2.40
M$ 1.00           =       US$0.42
M$ 1 million      =       US$417,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)            =       0.03937 inches
1 centimeter (cm)            =       0.3937 inches
1 meter (m)                  -       39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)             =       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)           0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)               =       2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)                 35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)         811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                          0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (l/s)                 0.035 cubic feet per second
(cusec)
1 kilogram (kg)              =       2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)           =        2,205 pounds
1 milligram/liter (mg/l)     =        1 part/million (ppm)
ABBREVIATIONS
AA      -  Agricultural Assistant
AAO     - Assistant Agricultural Officer
AO      -  Agricultural Officer
AT      -  Agricultural Technician
BPM     -  Bank Pertanian Malaysia
DID     -  Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA     - Department of Agriculture
FAMA    -  Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FDC     -  Farmers Development Center
FOA     - Farmers Organization Authority
GOM     -  Government of Malaysia
GRP     -  Glass-Reinforced Polyester
IRRI    -  International Rice Research Institute (Philippines)
LPN     - Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and Rice Authority
MARDI   - Malaysia Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA     - Ministry of Agriculture
MSL     - Mean Sea Level
NPV     -  Net Present Value
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
PWD     -  Public Works Department
SMS     -  Subject Matter Specialist
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFRIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA: APPRAISAL OF THE KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . .1. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
General . . . . . . . . . . ay . . . . .  .         .                   1
Irrigation Development in Malaysia . . . .  . . . . . . . . .           1
Project Formulation  .                                     . . .         1. 
2.  THE PROJECT AREA   .....  .         .    . ....  .  .  .    . . . . . .  .  3
Location   .. . . .   0 .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
Climate   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Topography and Soils.. . . .                                            3
Farm Size and Land Tenure    . . . . . . ..5
Existing Infrastructure             ..6
Agricultural Supporting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
3. THE PROJECT.. .9
Project Description...                                ...               9
Project Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Equipment and Vehicles          ... ...14
Water Supply, Demand and Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Status of Design and Construction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Muda Dams Study            . . . . . . . .  .  . . ..         .        18
Implementation Schedule         ...                   . . .18
Cost Estimates               . . . ..        . .    ....               18
Financing ..    .        .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Procurement           ...                         ...19
Disbursements   . . . . . . . .. . . .                      .          21
Accounts and Audits          ...                    ...21
Environmental Effects          . . . ....               ...            22
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Project Coordination and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Agency Responsibilities             ... .23
Consulting Services                  . . .        . .27
Training                 ....28
Right-of-Way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Malaysia in November/December 1977 comprising Messrs. J. Goldberg,
E. Boerema (Bank), and G. Thorsky (Consultant). Mrs. N.K. Hill
contributed to the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . .   a. .. . .  . . .     28
Present Cropping Patterns  . . . . . . . . . . a 0...     * *.* *    29
Future Cropping Patterns   . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   . . . .   30
Yields and Production    ..  ...          . . .......* 0.. . ...     30
Crop Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
Farm Mechanization . . . . . ..  .                         . . .     32
Harvest and Transport. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
Milling Facilities ......................                             33
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES . . .        33
Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          33
Prices.. . . . . .  . . . .   * * *                                  34
Farm Incomes.. . . . . .  . .                                        35
Project Charges  . . . . .   . . . .  .  . . .  . . .  . . . . . .   37
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . .                      38
8. RECOMMENDATIONS . ............ ....    41
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
2.1 Climatic Data
3.1 Summary Cost Estimate
5.1  Present and Projected Padi Area
5.2  Present and Projected Yields
5.3 Cropping Pattern and Padi Production
6.1 Rice Price Structure
ANNEXES
1.  Water Demand and Availability
2. Cost Estimates, Expenditures, Disbursements and Allocation of Loan Funds
3. Crop and Farm Budgets
4. Economic Analysis
5. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1 Proposed Padi Cropping Calendar
3.2 Krian Subproject Implementation Schedule
3.3 Sungei Manik Subproject Implementation Schedule
4.1 Agricultural Extension Services (Organization Chart)
MAPS
IBRD 13149 - Sungei Manik Subproject
IBRD 13150 - Krian Subproject



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has requested Bank assistance in
financing the Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project.
The major objective of the project is to raise the productivity and incomes
of about 24,000 smallholder padi-farming families through the rehabilitation
and upgrading of two irrigation schemes in the state of Perak. Achievement
of this objective would make a strong contribution to alleviating poverty in
the subproject areas in a cost-effective manner, while simultaneously provid-
ing expanded domestic sources of marketable rice. The latter is of renewed
importance to Malaysia in view of the severe droughts in the Muda region (the
nation's primary rice source) over the past two years, the stagnation of rice
production in other parts of the country (including Perak) over the same
period, and the consequent necessity to increase national rice imports to
over 300,000 tons in 1978.
Irrigation Development in Malaysia
1.02      With most of Peninsular Malaysia's cultivated land under rubber (58%)
and oil palm (18%), rice production (accounting for 14% of cultivated land)
is largely confined to irrigated areas situated in the coastal plains. Con-
cern for reducing the country's high dependence on rice imports to satisfy
its staple food requirements, and for alleviating the poverty of large
padi-farming communities, has encouraged and maintained a long tradition of
Government support for irrigation development.  Surveys and design for the
first major irrigation scheme, Krian, commenced in 1880, followed by the
construction of major irrigation infrastructure in Sungei Manik (1933),
Tanjong Karang (1937), Pasir Mas (1958), Sungei Lemal (1962), Muda (1965),
Kemubu (1968), and Besut (1970).  Over the same period the Drainage and
Irrigation Department (DID) has also constructed numerous small irrigation
schemes, with the result that 80% of Peninsular Malaysia's 370,000 ha of
padi land is now provided with some form of irrigation facilities and 57% is
technically capable of double-cropping. The Bank has financed provision of
major irrigation works in the Muda (Loan 434-MA) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA)
areas, accounting for 49% of total rice production in Peninsular Malaysia,
and has recently provided financing for approximately 200 small irrigation
schemes under the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA).
1.03      In recent years thp maior thrust of irrigation development in
Malaysia has shifted from the construction of new schemes, emphasizing
provision of headworks and primary and secondary distribution and drainage
facilities to permit double-cropping, to the rehabilitation and improvement
of established irrigation schemes. Under the North Kelantan Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1294-MA) and the Northwest Selangor Integrated Agri-
cultural Development Project (Loan 1522-MA), the existing Pasir Mas, Sungei



- 2 -
Lemal, and Tanjong Karang schemes will be improved through the provision of
on-farm (tertiary and quaternary) canals and drains to provide the higher
standard of water control necessary to improve padi yields and increase
cropping intensity, along with the upgrading and replacement of major struc-
tures required with improvements in distributary and collector systems. In
keeping with the new emphasis on higher standards of water control, the
recent projects have included strong agricultural service components designed
to assist the great majority of project area farmers to make full use of
infrastructure facilities to raise their yields, production, and incomes.
Project Formulation
1.04      The engineering elements of the present project are similar in
nature to the irrigation components of the North Kelantan and Northwest
Selangor projects (para. 1.03), basically consisting of the rehabilitation
and upgrading of old major structures (headworks, main canals and drains,
perimeter bunds) and the construction of new systems of distributary canals,
collector drains, and access roads. The original main structures of the
Krian Irrigation Scheme (24,000 net padi ha), including the Bukit Merah
Reservoir and the main canals, were completed in 1906, while the headworks and
most of the main canals of the Sungei Manik Irrigation Scheme (7,000 net padi
ha) were completed in 1939. The two schemes were well-designed for their
time, have provided an assured source of water for main season padi crops and
(with improvements) a substantial amount of double-cropping, and have been
continuously upgraded on a piecemeal basis and adequately maintained over the
decades of their existence. Nevertheless, their irrigation and drainage
capacities are simply incapable of providing the high degree of water control
required for reliable double-cropping of modern high-yielding padi varieties.
Road access to the padi areas is also inadequate for input supply, mechaniza-
tion, harvesting, agricultural extension, and operation and maintenance needs.
1.05      To prepare a project which would overcome the engineering and
agricultural limitations of the existing Krian scheme, the Government in 1974
commissioned a study by ULG Consultants Ltd., as part of the North Perak
Planning and Development Study financed by the British Overseas Development
Ministry. Between 1975 and 1977 Perak and Federal DID modified many of the
original design concepts proposed in the study, and extended the engineering
analysis to the level of detail suitable for Bank appraisal. The Sungei
Manik subproject was prepared by Perak and Federal DID in 1976 and 1977.
Several Bank missions in 1976 and 1977, comprising Messrs. J. Goldberg,
E. Boerema (Bank), G. Thorsky, and P. Judd (Consultants), assisted DID as
well as the various participating agricultural agencies (para. 1.06) in the
preparation of the project.
1.06      The integrated agricultural services component of the project is
based on agricultural programs developed for previous Bank irrigation
projects in Malaysia, now being implemented with considerable success. The
operational methodology is a version of the training and visit extension
system adapted to local conditions, and extended to cover agricultural
credit, water management, input supply and marketing, and technical advisory
work in a unified framework. Implementation of the component would involve
close cooperation among the field staff of the Perak State Department of
Agriculture (DOA), Farmers Organization Authority (FOA), the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM) and DID, and each of those agencies participated in the



- 3 -
preparation of the agricultural program. The final project proposal for
the agricultural extension program, including supporting technical data,
was prepared by Federal DOA. Socioeconomic surveys of the subproject areas
and economic analyses of the subproject proposals were undertaken by the
Planning and Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The
project was appraised in November/December 1977 by a mission composed of
Messrs. J. Goldberg and E. Boerema (Bank) and G. Thorsky (Consultant) on the
basis of a detailed Preparation Report combining the contributions of all
implementing agencies and coordinated by MOA (Ref. Bl). Mrs. N.K. Hill
contributed to the preparation of this report.
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location
2.01      The Krian Irrigation Scheme is located in the northwest corner of
the State of Perak, with some 1,500 ha extending into the State of Penang /1
(Map 13150). The town of Bagan Serai lies in the center of the Krian
Scheme, about 110 km northwest of the state capital, Ipoh. The Sungei
Manik Irrigation Scheme is located in southern Perak, near the town of Teluk
Anson and about 90 km south of Ipoh (Map 13149). Project works would
be carried out on about 24,000 ha in Krian and 6,600 ha in Sungei Manik.
Climate
2.02      The project areas have a humid tropical climate characterized by
relatively high rainfall, high humidity, consistently high temperatures, and
only minor variations in day length. Average annual rainfall is nearly
2,500 mm (97 in) in Krian and about 2,700 mm (106 in) in Sungei Manik, with
peak periods in April and October/November and relatively dry periods in
January/February and from June through August (Table 2.1). While average
rainfall is quite high in both cropping seasons, it is also quite variable.
The coefficient of variation of rainfall for most months is over 50% (65%
for February), and for half-monthly periods during the planned crucial
presaturation periods (i.e., the second halves of January and August) the
coefficient is over 70%. Because of this high variability, supplementary
water frequently must be supplied to both seasons' crops to ensure proper
timing of agricultural operations and high yields and cropping intensity.
Conversely, there is often excessive rainfall for optimum padi growth,
particularly during the September-December period, which requires a high
standard of drainage to avoid crop damage.
Topography and Soils
2.03      Topography.  The Krian Irrigation Scheme is situated on a portion
of the west coast alluvial plain which slopes gently from about 4 m above MSL
at the Bukit Merah Reservoir to about 0.8 m above MSL at the coast in Krian
Laut, a distance of about 29 km. The flat terrain is drained by the Krian
/1   This area is operated and maintained by Perak DID under an agreement
with Penang DID dating back many years.



Table 2.1: CLIMATIC DATA
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  April  May  June  July   Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total/average
Average rainfall (mm)
Krian /a                   151   141   207    244   197   121   146   168    216    366   295   217               2,469
Average rainfall (mm)
Sungei Manik /b            190   183   263    309   217   109   138   148    185    347   346   272               2,707
Average evaporation (mm)
Krian /c                   141   143   156    151   157   155   155   161    154    151   140   135               1,799
Average evaporation (mm)
Sungei Manik /d            157   143   156    161   157   155   155   161    154    151   140   157               1,847
Average daily
temperature /e
(degrees centigrade)  27.0  27.2  27.7   27.8  28.0  27.8  27.6  27.4   27.2   27.1  26.9  26.9                 27.3
/a  Average of six stations within and along boundaries of subproject area for 27 years (1948-1974).
/b Average of four stations within subproject boundaries for 27 years (1948-1974).
/c Average of three stations within the Krian area and calculated by Hargraves Method: Transactions of Am. Soc.
Agr. Eng. - 1974, pp. 701-704.
/d Average calculated from Teluk Anson data.
/e Average two stations in Krian.



- 5 -
and Kurau Rivers, the lower reaches of which are bunded to reduce flooding.
Coastal areas were subject to direct salt water intrusion before being
protected by a bund along the entire length of the coast. The Sungei Manik
Scheme area slopes more sharply, with an elevation of about 12 m above MSL
near the headworks and about 2 m at the flood protection bunds along the
Perak River. The topography is more undulating and steeper near the headworks
than in the lower portion.
2.04      Soils.  Krian Laut, the coastal portion of the Krian subproject,
consists mainly of alluvial soils of marine origin. A thin brown sticky clay
surface layer covers a subsoil which is a mainly structureless greenish-grey
clay. Soils are almost permanently flooded and little mottling has occurred.
The inland area, Krian Darat, consists mainly of alluvial soils of riverine
origin. Almost 5,000 ha of land along the Bagan Serai-Parit Buntar road is
overlain by slightly acid organic clay muck soils. All soils in Krian are
suitable for rice growing, but the soils in Krian Laut have a low load
carrying capacity which may restrict future mechanization. The muck soils
are distinctly less productive, but with suitable water management and crop
husbandry techniques, profitable padi crops can be grown. The lower flat
slopes of Sungei Manik have alluvial clays and the higher areas consist of
sandy clays. Low lying soils are currently almost permanently flooded, while
better drainage has been possible on the higher areas. Soils are suitable
for padi growing although a percolation rate of 3.3 mm/day for the lighter
soils requires proportionally more irrigation water. To optimize yields on
the undulating coarser soils, land leveling and high rates of fertilization
are necessary. The Soil and Analytical Branch of DOA expects to complete
the ongoing semi-detailed soil surveys for Krian in 1978, while the Sungei
Manik soil series map would be completed by mid 1979.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.05      Farm Size.  The average size of the 20,500 farms in Krian is about
1.2 ha. Farms generally have 1.0 ha of padi land and 0.2 ha for the house
site with vegetable garden and fruit and coconut trees. The average padi
farm consists of 1.3 parcels. Most farmers (69%) operate a single parcel,
while 28% work on two parcels and 3% have three parcels. The distribution of
holdings according to farm size is as follows:
<0.4 ha   0.4-0.8 ha  0.8-1.2 ha  1.2-1.6 ha  1.6-2.0 ha  2.0-2.4 ha  >2.4 ha
4%        30%           37%           17%          5%          4%          3%
2.06      The Sungei Manik area was laid out in a planned fashion.  Land was
originally allotted to settlers in four stages in parcels of 1.6 ha (Stage I)
and 2.4 ha (Stages II-IV). At present the average farm size of the 3,600 farms
is 2.4 ha, with 1.7 ha utilized for padi and the remainder for a house site
and other crops. In the poorly drained and irrigated Stage III and IV areas,
farmers generally operate larger padi holdings (averaging 2.5 ha) than in
the Stage I and II areas (averaging 1.3 ha). Most farmers (57%) own one
parcel of padi land, while the remainder generally operate another parcel



outside the irrigated area for rubber, fruits or annual crops. Not all
potential padi lands are presently under command of the irrigation scheme,
and these lands, aggregating about 330 ha, would become suitable for padi
under the project.
2.07      Land Tenure.  About 66% of Krian farmers own all the land they
operate, and the average farm size of the pure owner-operators is 0.9 ha.
Some 19% of farmers are pure tenants who farm 20% of the padi land and have
an average rented plot of 1.0 ha. Owner-tenants account for 15% of the
farmers and 22% of padi land and their average area farmed is 1.4 ha. Thus
66% of padi land in Krian is owner-operated and 34% is rented. Nearly all
rents are fixed before the planting season and paid in cash. Tenants have a
high degree of security of tenure, with an average duration of tenancy of
6.1 years.
2.08      81% of the Sungei Manik area is farmed by owners, and the remaining
19% is rented. Some 67% of the farmers own all the land they operate, 20%
are owner-tenants and the remaining 13% are pure tenants. The padi area
farmed by owners averages 1.7 ha, that farmed by owner-tenants 2.1 ha, and
that by tenants 1.3 ha.
Existing Infrastructure
2.09      The Krian Irrigation Scheme was originally completed in 1906 and
provided irrigation water from the Bukit Merah Reservoir for a single padi
crop. As the reservoir capacity was insufficient to supply adequate water in
low rainfall seasons, the reservoir was enlarged during the early 1960s to
about 76 MCM (62,000 ac feet), which provided adequate storage for the entire
main-season crop and for about 12,000 ha of the off-season crop. To increase
the supply of off-season irrigation water to the lower portion of the sub-
project area (Krian Laut), a tidal barrage was constructed on the Krian River
in 1973-76, together with an inlet channel to a new pumping station, which
provides additional water to the lower reaches of the main canal. The
pumping station, completed in 1976, is equipped with four pumps, each with a
capacity of 5.1 cu m/sec (180 cu secs). With these recent major improvements
the Krian scheme can now provide sufficient water to fully double-crop the
padi area, given an adequate distribution system.
2.10      The Krian area is provided with a sparse network of distributary
irrigation canals and collector drains. The overall irrigation canal density
is 15-20 m/ha, and in the lower half of the subproject area canal banks have
been eroded after decades of use to a point where canals and drains are
physically indistinguishable, water levels are the same in the canals,
drains, and fields, and little movement or control of water is possible.
Drainage is restricted by an almost total absence of tertiary and quarternary
drains, undersized main drains and outlet gates, and, in Krian Laut, the low
level of the terrain relative to MSL. Indeed, much of Krian Laut has never
been drained, and is operated as a controlled drainage scheme with water
supplied through backflooding from drains as well as through field-to-field
flooding from canals. These conditions have led to a host of suboptimal
agricultural practices, including the use of floating nurseries in a double-
transplanting cycle, lack of field bunding, laborious hand cultivation of land
under water with scythes, and harvesting in flooded conditions, all of which



- 7 -
are forced adaptations to conditions imposed by inadequate infrastructure.
In the higher areas of Krian Darat drainage conditions are better, but field
distribution of irrigation water is slow because of insufficient command
heights in the secondary canals and a complete lack of tertiaries. Thus over
the entire Krian area cropping schedules are almost continually out of phase,
and proper water management is nearly impossible. Finally, river and coastal
bunds are in disrepair, with one section exposed to continuous coastal
erosion which threatens the loss of padi land.
2.11      The Krian scheme has good rail and road links with the major
towns of Peninsular Malaysia. The main road and the railway pass through the
towns of Parit Buntar and Bagan Serai, and most towns are accessible by
all-weather roads. Access within the padi area is mainly through tracks,
bridle paths and canal banks and bunds which cannot, in most instances, be
used for traffic other than two-wheelers. Distances between existing roads
suitable for vehicles in Krian Laut are as great as 8-10 km.
2.12      DID operating and maintenance (O&M) personnel are presently housed
in a district office in Bagan Serai. Some irrigation field staff have
been provided with quarters spread throughout the irrigation area. There is
also a small DID workshop in Bagan Serai for repair and maintenance of vehicles
and minor equipment. The Department of Agriculture (DOA) provides extension
services through the Parit Buntar Agricultural Office, while the Titi Serong
Crop Production Center provides some seed. Two small buildings belonging to
DOA in the towns of Kuala Kurau and Tanjung Piandang are presently used as
Farmers Development Centers (FDCs) by FOA.
2.13      Construction of the Sungei Manik Irrigation Scheme commenced in
1933.  Swamp jungle was reclaimed in four stages, with the first three
(3,420 ha) completed by 1941 and the fourth (3,140 ha) in 1953.  Construction
of the headworks, a run-of-the-river gravity diversion weir on the Batang
Padang River, was completed in 1939. The headworks, which also serves as a
road bridge, is a concrete structure with a single radial gate.  Since 1963
the flow of the river has been augmented and seasonally regulated by the
Cameron Highlands Hydroelectric Project, which taps the catchments of two
rivers in the State of Pahang and diverts them to the Batang Padang.
2.14      The area presently used for padi in Sungei Manik is 6,230 ha.
Another 330 ha cannot be adequately irrigated with the present canal command
levels. Distribution of water is slow due to inadequate command heights in
some secondary canals, undulating topography, and in Stage IV, field-to-field
flooding over reaches of 800 m. In Stage IV, where two adjoining farms are
commanded from one outlet, the presaturation period may be as long as 45 days
on the lot farthest away from the canal. Many of the old Sungei Manik canal
structures need replacement, and the operation of the headworks is hindered
by siltation and erosion problems. Finally, inadequate outlet structures,
low drain capacities and flat terrain cause prolonged ponding of the lower
subproject area, where drainage water is evacuated into the tidal Perak
River.
2.15      There are two paved branch roads from the large town of Teluk Anson
through Sungei Manik, one through Stages I, II and III and one through
Stage IV. These roads, which are maintained by the Public Works Department,



provide the only access for four-wheeled vehicles within the scheme. Motor-
cycles and bicycles have further access to farms and villages along bridle
paths which are located on the banks of existing secondary canals. Access to
farms is inadequate in a situation where double-cropping of padi requires
inputs to be delivered in a timely manner, where contractors must have access
over roads suitable for tractors, and where padi has to be delivered quickly
to drying facilities after harvesting in wet, humid weather.
2.16      DID operates and maintains the Sungei Manik Scheme from their
district office in Teluk Anson. Agricultural services are administered
from the DOA Lower Perak office, also irn Teluk Anson. There is a FDC
complex in the subproject area, which houses the DOA extension personnel
who serve the padi area as well as the usual FOA staff complement.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.17      Most of the agencies responsible for providing agricultural sup-
porting services to project area farmers are under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). These include DOA and DID, which are line
departments within the Ministry, as well as FOA, BPM, the Malaysian Agricul-
tural Research and Development Institute (MARDI), and the Federal Agricultural
Marketing Authority (FAMA). The National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN) L1 in
the Ministry of Public Enterprise, is responsible for regulating the market-
ing, milling, and importing of rice, maintaining the national rice stockpile,
and operating a network of rice mills in the larger padi-producing areas.
2.18      The Perak State DOA is responsible for agricultural extension to
padi farmers in the subproject areas, and is thus the key agricultural
support agency. Extension services in Krian are supervised by an Agricultural
Officer (AO) stationed at Parit Buntar, assisted by an Assistant Agricultural
Officer (AAO), 5 Agriculture Assistants (AAs), 18 ATs for extension and demons-
tration plots and 4 ATs for home economics and farm family development. The
ratio of ATs to farm families is about 1:1,200 while under the National
Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) the ratio of one AT to 800 farm families
has been adopted. As the ATs are presently also responsible for regulatory
duties, statistical work, and administration of subsidies, the ratio is much
smaller in practice, and little time is left for systematic extension work.
Extension activities are generally conducted on an ad hoc basis, with no
regular visits by ATs to farmer groups. These activities include:
(a) short courses for farmers and rural youths, including one-day
courses in villages and one-week courses at a Rural Agricultural
Training Center;
(b) crop demonstration plots with improved varieties and recommended
cultural practices;
(c) crop protection services;
(d) farm mechanization courses;
/1 The official name of this agency is Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara.



- 9-
(e) distribution of leaflets;
(f) organizing farmer tours to agricultural development
projects; and
(g) home economics courses for housewives.
A similar situation prevails in Sungei Manik, where there are only two
extension ATs serving the padi area under the supervision of an AO in Teluk
Anson. While the National Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) will increase
the overall level of staffing, quarters, and training of the Perak DOA
extension service, an additional concerted extension effort would be
required in the subproject areas to allow farmers to realize the full
agricultural potential of their smallholdings.
2.19      MARDI operates a major rice research station at Bumbong Lima, some
50 km north of Krian. Research is problem and location oriented. A total
of 19 research officers with support staff is engaged in rice breeding, crop
agronomy (nutrition and crop husbandry), crop physiology and crop protection.
To conduct varietal and adaptability work specific to subproject areas, two
officers were stationed at both Tanjung Piandang (Krian) and Parit (serving
Sungei Manik and the Trans Perak area). Work is mainly associated with
selecting varieties suitable for deep water and acid-sulphate soils, crop
nutrition and pest control (Reference B1).
3. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The proposed project would benefit a total of 30,060 ha of padi
land in two separate subprojects, the Krian Irrigation Scheme with
23,500 ha of future padi land, and the Sungei Manik Irrigation scheme with
6,560 ha of padi land. Increased padi production and improved farm incomes
would be achieved through the following features incorporated in the project:
(a) improvements to existing perimeter bunds and tidal gates
including construction of coastal protection works;
(b) rehabilitation and improvement of existing primary and
secnndary irrigation and drainage canals and structures;
(c) construction of tertiary and quaternary irrigation and
drainage systems and the provision of necessary structures;
(d) construction and improvement of access roads;
(e) construction, furnishing and equipping of offices and workshop
facilities for DID, multipurpose Farmers Development Centers
(FDCs), a seed farm, and staff housing;
(f) procurement of vehicles and equipment for operation and main-
tenance of irrigation works and agricultural support services;



- 10 -
(g) provision of local consultant services as required to assist DID
staff with the implementation of project works and the preparation
of tender documents (para 4.14);
(h) the establishment of three cropping schedules for each irrigation
scheme with enforced staggered planting dates at monthly intervals
(para. 3.19);
(i) the introduction of a sound extension methodology, an increase
in extension staff, and the use of continuous staff training and
regular farm visits (para. 4.07);
(j) extending the coverage of farm credit (para. 4.13) and improving
input supplies and marketing facilities (para. 4.11); and
(k) a limited number of fellowships and overseas training tours
(para. 4.15).
In addition, a Muda dams study (paras. 3.23 and 3.24) would be implemented
under the project.
Project Works
3.02      Bunds.  A rock-faced bund would be constructed along a 2.4 km
stretch of the Krian coast between the Bahru and Burong Rivers, where wave
action and coastal erosion have breached numerous previous earth bunds and
destroyed 140 ha of padi land./1 To preclude sea and river water intrusion
in other parts of Krian, the existing coastal and river earth bunds (approx-
imately 107 km) would be raised and strengthened. Similarly, about 8 km of
earth perimeter bund would be improved in Sungei Manik. Bund locations are
shown on Map 13150.
3.03      Main and Secondary Canals.  Existing main and secondary canals
would be improved and upgraded where needed. The capacity and command levels
of the Selinsing main canal in Krian would be increased by enlarging its
sectional area and raising its banks, and to a lesser extent other canals in
both Krian and Sungei Manik would be raised and desilted as necessary to
convey the water required for three staggered cropping schedules. The diver-
sion requirement to the main canal in Krian would be 1.4 1/sec/ha and in
Sungei Manil 2.0 1/sec/ha. In Krian, 56 km of main canal and 334 km of
secondary canals would be improved, and access roads constructed on canal
banks (paras. 3.12-3.13). In Sungei Manik, 3.1 km of main canal and 47 km
of secondary canals would be improved, and concrete-lining would be placed
in 3.7 km of secondary canals in the areas with the most pervious soils.
3.04      Tertiary and Quaternary Canals.  In Krian, tertiary canals would
be constructed to serve individual irrigation units varying in size from
/1 The design concept for the proposed rock bund was developed by DID
with the assistance of Japanese technical assistance teams and Bank
supervision missions for the Western Johore Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 973-MA). Completed bunds in Johore are now performing
satisfactorily.



- 11 -
20 to 100 ha, depending on the arrangement of lots and topography./i  The
peak irrigation duty in Krian in secondary, tertiary and quarternary canals
is set by presaturation requirements and would be equal to 2.3 1/sec/ha.
Where existing right-of-way is available, earth tertiary canals would be
constructed or rehabilitated. Where existing right-of-way is narrow,
concrete-lined canals would be built. Where tertiary canals are needed and
no right-of-way exists, an approved structural tertiary system with capacities
ranging from 30 1/sec to 200 1/sec would be installed (para. 3.06). New
tertiary alignments would follow lot lines to the extent feasible. Upon
completion of the project Krian would have 50 km of earth, 13 km of concrete-
lined, and 277 km of structural tertiaries, and 58 km of earth quaternary
ditches. The construction of the supplementary tertiary and quaternary
system would increase the irrigation canal density from 15-20 m/ha to
30-35 m/ha, and would provide about 80% of the lots in Krian with direct
access to tertiary canals./2 The remaining 20% (all located in areas
having irregular lot layouts) would be served by earth quaternary ditches
constructed and maintained by the farmers under DID supervision./3
3.05      The lot layout in Sungei Manik is regular, with each 400 m long lot
in Stages I-III having direct access to a canal and drain (Map 13149). In
Stage IV the current 800 m spacing of canals and drains provides half the
farmers with direct access to a canal and the remaining farmers with direct
access to a drain, which gives neither group a satisfactory measure of
individual water control. Under the project Stage IV would be brought to the
same standard as the rest of Sungei Manik, by construction of structural
tertiaries with adjacent drains midway between existing canals and drains.
This improvement is necessary to permit agricultural operations in Stage IV
to stay in phase with the rest of the subproject area. Improvements in
Stages I-III would include the raising of command levels of distributary
canals, raising and widening canal banks for roadways, and modifying or
adding structures. Irrigation units commanded by tertiary canals would range
from 15 to 60 ha, and the capacity of structural tertiaries would range from
30 to 150 1/sec. The peak irrigation duty in Sungei Manik in secondary and
tertiary canals is set by presaturation requirements and averages 2.8 1/sec/ha
over the subproject area. Under the project 178 km of existing distributary
canals would be improved in Sungei Manik, and 50 km of new structural terti-
aries would be installed. With these improvements an overall canal density
of 35 m/ha would be obtained.
3.06      Structural Tertiaries.  The structural tertiary system currently
being used in Malaysia, and approved by the Bank for installation in the
Lemal Irrigation area under the North Kelantan Rural Development Project
(Loan 1294-MA), utilizes glass-reinforced polyester (GRP) flumes. The flumes
are placed above ground on concrete pads founded at 6 m (20 ft) centers on
/1 At present water is distributed from secondary canals serving areas
ranging from 300 to 1,500 ha.
/2 At present only about 10% of the lots have direct access to a water
outlet.
/3 A typical post-project layout is given on Map 13150.



- 12 -
bakau wood friction piling. The GRP flumes were adopted after completion in
July 1977 of a one-year accelerated testing program undertaken by DID to
confirm the long-term structural and chemical properties of the system.
Installation and initiation of the system in existing irrigation areas nas
proceeded with a minimum of engineering or social problems. For this proj-
ect, tendering for a structural distributary system would be open to all
structural water conveyance systems which could meet the performance speci-
fications already achieved by the GRP system, in terms of speed of instal-
lation, lack of disruption of cropping activities, minimization of land
acquisition, discharge and command, ease of maintenance and durability.
3.07      Irrigation Canal Structures.  Additional structures and improve-
ments to existing structures would be made in both Krian and Sungei MIanik to
allow the systems to convey the designed capacities. Turnouts to secondary
and tertiary canals would include measuring devices. Where head is readily
available, measurement would be by weirs. Where head is not readily avail-
able (the most prevalent condition), the turnout would be of the constant
head orifice type. Checks (regulators) and controls would be improved or
added as needed to maintain full supply levels in the canals. Where lack of
head does not permit gravity turnouts, water would be pumped from secondary
to tertiary canals to furnish the needed supply level in the tertiary.
Inverted pipe syphons would be constructed to carry canal water under water
channels, and culverts would be used to carry water under roads. Farm
delivery from earth canals and structural tertiaries would be made through
suitable offtakes. A listing of the numbers of the various types of irriga-
tion structures on main, secondary and tertiary canals is given in Annex 2,
Tables 2 and 3.
3.08      The spillway outlet of the Sungei Manik main diversion weir
has eroded and would require apron/cutoff modification and extensive riprap
protection. The headworks structure would be studied and modeled in the
DID hydraulic laboratory, and modifications made accordingly to prevent as
much of the bed load silt as feasible from entering the main canal. Also, a
desilting basin would be constructed in the main canal. As an interim solu-
tion for the project implementation period, pumps would be installed in
drains at three or more locations in the lower part of Sungei Manik to
pump supplemental water into the canals. Nine pumps with a capacity of
140 1/sec (5 cusec) each would be purchased under the project. If still
serviceable at the end of the implementation period, the pumps would be
maintained on standby to serve the Sungei Manik area.
3.09      Drainage Improvements.  About 70% of the Krian Irrigation Scheme
is under tidal influence. Drainage in Krian Laut, in particular, would be
improved through the construction of tidal control gate structures, enlarge-
ment of the main and secondary drains, and construction of collector drains.
Each drainage compartment would be designed to be operated separately, with
storm flows routed to the sea or rivers taking into account tide levels and
the necessity to close tidal gates for certain periods. Pumped drainage
would be required for about 327 ha below an elevation of 0.8 m. Main drains
and ancillary structures would be designed to handle a 25-year frequency
flood. Secondary and collector drains would be designed to evacuate a 5-year
frequency storm without submerging the crop more than 48 hours. The design
capacity of quaternary and tertiary drains would be about 0.9 cumecs/sq km
(80 cusecs/sq mile) in Krian Laut, varying to half this amount for drains in



- 13 -
higher parts of Krian. Each farm lot would have its own pipe outlet to a
quaternary drain. A total of 470 km of main and secondary drains would be
improved or constructed, and 130 km of quaternary ditches would be dug.
Drainage structures to be constructed would include 40 outlet gate struc-
tures, 53 drainage culverts, 24 drainage controls (checks), and 2 pump
stations.
3.10      The whole Sungei Manik Irrigation Scheme drains into the Perak
River. About 30% of the area is under tidal influence of the river. The
Perak River is estimated to flood once in 25 years to an elevation of
3 m (10 ft). The scheme would be protected with a perimeter bund with a top
at elevation 3.7 m (12 ft), and the main drains and tidal control gates would
be designed to handle a 25-year frequency storm. Secondary drains would be
designed to evacuate a 5-year frequency storm in 48 hours. Several old,
deteriorated tidal gate control structures would be replaced, and the lower
portions of the main drains would be widened and deepened. The scheme
would be divided into a series of compartments bounded by physical barriers,
such as canals and roads. Each compartment would be divided into subcompart-
ments with a maximum drainage duty of 0.9 cumecs/sq km (80 cusecs/sq mile).
The flow from each subcompartment and compartment, determined from individual
outflow hydrographs, would be accumulated in the main drains and routed
through the tidal gate control structures, taking into account the tidal
variations and back-up water in drains during the times when the gates must
be closed. The present drainage network in Stages I, II and III is spaced at
400 meters. A relatively minor amount of earthwork would be required on the
secondary drains for these areas. Some of the drainage control structures
would need replacements, and additional controls would be needed in rela-
tively steep terrain. In Stage IV, additional drains would be constructed
midway between the existing secondary drains spaced at 800 meters, so that
each lot would be served with a drainage ditch and its own drainage outlet
(para. 3.05). The drain would be adjacent to, and on the uphill side of, the
structural tertiary to be constructed under the project. About 230 km of
main and secondary drains would be excavated or improved, and 10 drainage
control structures, 6 tidal gate control structures, 137 end control struc-
tures, and 3 culvert crossings would be constructed.
3.11      Because of the relatively high permeability of padi field soils in
the Stage IV area of Sungei Manik, seepage losses in the existing Stage
IV tertiary canals were investigated in some detail. Permeameter tests in
those canals gave average seepage losses of 10 mm/day, equivalent to a loss
in capacity of less than 0.2%/km. Losses of this magnitude would not warrant
concrete-lining the existing earth tertiaries. The widening of the canal
banks to accomodate construction of access roads would reduce seepage from
the canals to the adjacent drains, as would the construction of control
structures in the drains to hold up the water during the irrigation seasons.
3.12      Access Roads.  Within the Krian scheme, a link road would be built
along the main canal bank from the Bukit Merah Intake to Jalan Bahru, a dis-
tance of 24 km. It would be a bench design, built to PWD standards, and would
have a formation 8 m wide, and a 4.3 m wide compacted laterite surface. It
would link farm roads, which would be constructed on top of all secondary canal
banks, with the State and Federal PWD asphalt paved roads. The farm roads



- 14 -
would be a minimum of 3.1 m wide and would be surfaced with 23 cm of laterite.
About 325 km of farm roads on canal banks would be built and 530 bridges and
culverts would be constructed to cross waterways. Upon completion of this
system, most of the Krian padi area would be between 0.4 and 0.8 km distance
from a motorable road, and no point would be more than 1.2 km from a road.
3.13      To provide farmers in Sungei Manik with a similar standard of
accessibility, i.e. a distance of less than 1.2 km to a road suitable for
vehicles, the common bank between drains and canals (at 800 m intervals)
would be upgraded to provide a 3.1 m wide farm road with a 23 cm layer of
laterite. Lay-bys for passing traffic would be provided at 400 m intervals.
A total of 135 km of road would be upgraded and 750 crossing structures
would be built. In addition, 98 km of concrete slab bridle paths along
tertiaries would be constructed.
3.14      Buildings.  The DID district office in Bagan Serai would be
enlarged, and a new subdistrict office would be constructed for the Krian
Laut area to accommodate the additional personnel required under the project.
A new workshop would be constructed adjacent to the Krian Pumphouse to handle
repair work on vehicles and equipment utilized by DID, DOA and FOA in the
Krian area. A new DID office would also be constructed in the Sungei Manik
area to cater for additional technical and administrative staff.
3.15      Three new FDC complexes and five subcenters would be constructed
in Krian, and the offices and stores of the two existing FDCs would be
expanded. In Sungei Manik the existing FDC would be enlarged and two new
subcenters would be constructed. All FDCs would have office space for 9 to
13 officers and support staff representing FOA, DOA, BPM, and DID; padi
drying floors; and fertilizer, chemical, and padi stores. DOA would construct
two seed stores with drying floors and a store for plant protection chemicals
in Krian, and a seed and fertilizer store with drying floor in Sungei Manik.
All new housing required for DOA extension personnel, DID O&M staff, and FOA
staff would be constructed in FDC compounds, both for reasons of economy and
to encourage close cooperation between the field staff of the various
agencies. A total of 188 wooden house units would be constructed at various
sites, at an average cost of US$7,000/unit.
Equipment and Vehicles
3.16      Vehicles, pumps, and excavation and earth-moving equipment would be
purchased under the project to improve the capability of Perak DID to operate
and maintain completed project works. The new workshop to be constructed
under the project (para. 3.14) would perform routine maintenance and minor
repairs for this equipment, while major repairs of heavy equipment and
fabrication of parts would be undertaken by the DID Federal Workshop in Ipoh.
Agricultural equipment and vehicles would also be purchased to improve the
mobility of DOA extension staff, and to enable the FDCs operated by FOA to
provide transport and tractoring services to project area farmers on a fee
basis. In Sungei Manik, tractors would be used for contract land-levelling
operations as well as for land preparation. The BPM branch office in Teluk
Anson has recently initiated a lending program for contract land-levelling,
which has been done for many years by private contractors in the area. A
complete vehicle and equipment list is presented in Annex 2, Table 2.



- 15 -
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.17      Water Supply.  The primary water supply for the Krian scheme is the
Bukit Merah reservoir located at the head of the canal system and having a
catchment area of about 600 sq km. Maximum storage capacity is 16 MCM
(62,000 ac ft). The monthly inflow varied from 14 MCM (11,600 ac ft.) to
219 MCM (179,000 ac ft) for the period 1961-73. An important supplementary
source of water for the lower portion of the scheme is the Krian River on
which a barrage was commissioned in 1976 (para. 2.09). An inlet channel
conveys water from above the barrage to a pumping plant with a total capacity
of 20.4 cu m/sec (720 cusec) which discharges into the lower reach of the
main canal. The Krian River has a catchment area of 1,075 sq km above the
barrage and fortnightly flows recorded for the period 1961-73 have ranged
between 15.3 cu m/sec (540 cusec) to 43.6 cu m/sec (1,540 cusec).
3.18      The main supply of irrigation water for the Sungei Manik scheme is
the Batang Padang River with a catchment area of 645 sq km, inclusive of the
catchment of the Telom and Kial Rivers which have been diverted to the Batang
Padang River since 1963 by the construction of the Cameron Highlands Hydro-
electric Project. The catchment above the hydroelectric dam represents about
40% of the total catchment area. Water is diverted to the main canal by an
existing diversion dam and through a headworks having a design capacity of
17 cu m/sec (600 cusecs). The flow in the river fluctuates daily because of
the peaking operation of the power plant, necessitating a 24 hour operation
of the intake works. Supplementary water is provided to about 300 ha (Air
Deras area) in Stage II by an existing pumping station with a capacity of
0.85 cu m/sec (30 cusecs), located just below the confluence of the Chikus
and Batang Padang Rivers about 2 km below the Sungei Manik headworks. The
catchment area of the Chikus River is 110 sq km and the minimum flow exceeds
0.96 cu m/sec (34 cusecs) in 9 out of 10 years.
3.19      Water Demand.  Demand for water in the Krian irrigation scheme is
based on the assumption that the area would be divided into three irrigation
blocks, each growing two crops of paddy per year. Identical cropping
schedules would be followed in each block at staggered intervals of one month.
Sequential block irrigation with staggered padi planting reduces peak water
diversion requirements, and also spreads peaks in demand of labor and machi-
nery. Irrigation block sizes and cropping schedules are given in Figure 3.1.
The cropping schedule is based on a presaturation period of 30 days, a land
preparation and early growth stage of 70 days, and a later growth and ripening
stage of 50 days. This would allow a cropping season of about 150 days (25
days nursery, 7 days transplanting, 110 days crop growth and 8-10 days harvest),
and requires padi varieties with a maximum growing season of 140 days.
Demand was calculated assuming that field saturation and crop establishment
requires 254 mm (10 in) of water, of which 102 mm (4 in) would be standing
water and 152 mm (6 in) would be required to saturate the soil. It was
further assumed that there would be a percolation field loss of 1.8 mm/day
(0.07 in/day) and a 70% overall irrigation efficiency. Monthly crop demands
are shown in Annex 1, Table 1 and gross water demands in Table 2. Sungei
Manik would similarly be divided into three irrigation blocks (Figure 3.1).
As in Krian, each block would follow its own cropping schedule and irrigation
water would become available at monthly intervals to the blocks. Assumptions



- 16 -
for water demand computation differ in two respects from Krian: (a) percolation
field losses are 3.3 mm/day (0.13 in/day); and (b) the overall irrigation
efficiency is assumed to be 60%. Monthly crop demands were computed and are
shown in Annex 1, Table 3 and gross water demands are shown in Table 4.
3.20      Analysis of Water Availability.  The average monthly inflows and the
average gross water demand for the two subprojects are listed below:
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  June  July  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec
-___________--_CM------- NCM --------------------------
Krian
Inflow, Bukit
Merah
reservoir /a        59   33   47   73   76    47   39    51   69  129  142  102
Flow, Krian
River above
pump
intake /b           89   49   62   94  122    70   64    78  100  157  165  126
Gross water
demand /c           61   83   63   67   67    70   65    84   65   26   29   40
Sungei Manik
90% exceedance
flow in Batang
Badang River /a    48   34   34   44   39    40   29    38   41   34   68   58
Gross water
demand /d
(including
Air Deras
area)               17   19   21   12   28    17   24    22   25   15   15   13
/a  Source:  DID.
/b  The capacity of the pumping plant is 52.7 MCM/month.
/c  From Annex 1, Table 2.
/d  From Annex 1, Table 4.
The table indicates in general terms that there would be no significant water
supply constraint for either project area; for Sungei Manik, the month coming
closest to having a deficit would be July. To obtain greater accuracy since
rainfall in both project arcas and the river flow in the Su;neei Manik are
relatively variable, DID performed a computerized analysis of supply and
demand (Reference B2) using actual rainfall and flow data recorded at 15 day
intervals. Demand was based on the cropping pattern and schedule to be
adopted under the project. Effective rainfall was assumed to be 60% of the
actual rainfall. For Krian, based on 13 years of records (1961-73), the



- 17 -
study showed that to meet all agricultural, domestic and industrial demands
approximately 35 MCM per month could be released from the reservoir and the
remainder could be supplied by pumping from the Krian River. Based on 14 years
(1961-74) of recorded data for Sungei-Manik, the study showed three 15-day
periods with deficits ranging from 3 to 13% and one period with a 56%
deficit (second half of July 1973). The analysis assumed that the entire
subproject, including the area now served by the Chikus pumphouse, would be
served by gravity from the Sungei-Manik headworks; however, even with the
project the pumphouse would be retained for standby use and could be used to
supply about 3% of gross demand. Therefore, from an agricultural point of
view, only the 56% deficit in the second half of July 1973 would have been
critical. In this particular case, the situation could have been remedied
by extending the presaturation period of one block into the first half of
the next month when there was a large water surplus. The block would still
remain in phase with a change in schedule of this small magnitude. Under
the project, the integrated agricultural extension program would be respon-
sible for informing the farmers of such a situation and for organizing them
to stagger their agricultural operations. As the improved irrigation
distribution system would on balance be water-saving, the possibility
of occasional small deficits in no way impairs the economic viability of the
proposed project. Also, no account has been taken in the analysis of the
nine 5 cusec pumps which would be installed in the lower reaches of the
project to recirculate water from drains into canals. The operating rules
are being further refined to take advantage of daily information on water
supply and demand.
3.21      Water Quality.  The water from the Bukit Merah Reservoir is of
excellent quality and has been used for irrigating padi for many decades
without ill effects. From 17 samples taken throughout 1975, the mean value
for pH was found to be 6.5 (range 6.0 to 8.0), total solids 46 mg/l and the
chloride content below 4 mg/l. Water from the Krian River is also of excel-
lent quality with an average pH of 6.6 (range 6.0 to 6.7) and total solids of
91 mg/l (11 samples throughout 1975). Water extracted from the Batang Padang
River for Sungei Manik is also of excellent quality. The average (17 samples)
pH in 1975 was 6.6 (range 6.0 to 6.7) and the total solids amounted to
101 mg/l. The chloride content is below 4 mg/l.
Status of Design and Construction
3.22      DID has completed engineering designs in two sample areas in each
subproject. The sample areas in Krian coincide with the boundaries of two of
the eight separately controlled irrigation and drainage compartments, compris-
ing 6,770 ha or about 22% of the subproject area. Designs for the two compart-
ments are almost complete, and construction is under way in one compartment on
a tidal gate, the rehabilitation of secondary canals, drains and structures,
and the installation of 4.3 km of tertiary GRP flumes. Construction of works
planned for 1977 was executed on schedule, and the 1978 program is also well
advanced. Plans for land acquisition have been submitted to the Land Office
for action. For Sungei Manik, detailed designs and cost estimates have been
made for two sample areas, comprising 970 ha in Stage I and 1,150 ha in Stage



- 18 -
IV, a total of 32% of the subproject area. Total costs for each subproject
were obtained by applying average costs per ha in sample areas to other
similar areas in the subprojects.
Muda Dams Study
3.23       Under the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA), which was approved
in 1965 and physically completed in 1970, the Bank financed construction of
the Pedu and Muda Dams, which supply irrigation water through the Pelubang
Headworks to the 98,000 ha Muda Irrigation Area in the States of Kedah and
Perlis. The Pedu Dam, a rock filled, asphalt faced structure, has shown
excessive leakage, which has already been partly repaired by low pressure
grouting of the abutments and by concreting and asphalting along abutment
contact zones. Recent investigations indicate that additional technical
Droblems exist. The concrete buttressed Muda Dam has also shown some tech-
nical problems, mainly through corroding of pre-stressed anchor cables.
3.24       The Government, with Bank approval, has engaged, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a consortium of experienced consulting
engineers, MINCO of Malaysia and ACE of Pakistan, to prepare a detailed
investigation of the safety of the dams, and a pre-feasibility study aimed
at identifying additional storage sites for the Muda Project area (Ref. B4).
The investigation commenced in May 1978 and would be completed in December
1979. At Government's request, funds for the studies have been included in
the project.
Implementation Schedule
3.25       The project would be implemented over a period of five years
(Figures 3.2 and 3.3). The agricultural support components provide for
a buildup of staff and facilities phased over the implementation period.
Construction in Krian commenced in 1977 and is expected to be completed
by the end of 1983. Construction in Sungei Manik would commence in 1978
and be completed in 1982.
Cost Estimates
3.26       Total project costs are estimated at US$60.2 million, of which
US$26.5 million (44%) would be foreign exchange. Cost estimates for irriga-
tion and drainage works, roads, and buildings are based on recent contract
unit costs in the subproject areas and in other Malaysian irrigation projects,
and on detailed layout and design work in the sample areas (para. 3.22). The
basis for estimated costs of vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials
included in the various components are recent quotations from suppliers
(Annex 2, Table 4). Because of the tax-exempt status of the implementing
agencies, cost estimates exclude all known taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies of 15% were applied for irrigation, drainage and road works,
10% for building construction, and 10% for vehicles and equipment. Base
costs are expressed in mid-1978 prices. Expected price increases over
the implementation period amount to 21% of base costs plus physical contin-
gencies and assume the following rates of price inflation for local and
foreign costs:



- 19 -
Inflation Rate (%)
1979      1980-83
Civil works                                      7.5          7
Equipment and vehicles                           6.5          6
Consultants, engineering and training            7            7
Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 1 and are summarized
in Table 3.1.
Financing
3.27      The proposed Bank loan of US$26.5 million would finance the
foreign exchange requirements of the project. The loan would finance
retroactively the foreign exchange component of expenditures incurred after
appraisal (November 1977) on irrigation and drainage works in the subproject
areas and the Muda dams study. The estimated total cost of such works is
US$2.4 million, of which US$1.2 million (50%) would be foreign exchange. As
this is a Federal project, all local costs would be borne by GOM throughout
the implementation period of the project. Activities falling under consti-
tutional State jurisdiction, such as operation and maintenance of the
completed works and agricultural extension, would thereafter be financed
through normal GOM procedures as necessary. An assurance to this effect
has been obtained from GOM.
Procurement
3.28      Supply and installation of the structural tertiary canal systems
(para. 3.06) in both subproject areas would be grouped into one contract,
worth a total of about US$6.8 million,/1 which would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Most of
the remaining irrigation, drainage, and road works would be small and dispersed
in time and space, and would involve considerable interaction with farmers,
small landowners, operation and maintenance operations, and local governmental
land acquisition teams, and would not be suitable for international tender.
These works (totalling US$36.5 million) would be implemented through about
15 contracts in Krian and 5 in Sungei Manik (averaging US$1.8 million in
value), and would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The local
contracting industry is competitive and strong, and local tendering is
well-managed and publicized. Bids would be accepted from foreign contractors
who wish to participate and no preference margins, whether domestic or
international, would be utilized in the evaluation and award of civil works
contracts. Buildings and facilities costing a total of US$3.2 million would
also be tendered locally. The Muda dams study will be carried out by a
Bank-approved consortium of the consulting engineers ACE (Pakistan) and MINCO
(Malaysia) (para. 3.24).
/1 All estimates of contract values in this section refer to the total of
base costs, physical contingencies, and expected price increases.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   exchange
--- (M$ million) ----    --- (US$ million) ---           (M)
Krian Irrigation Wbrks
Headworks and main
canal improvements                 2.1       1.8      3.9     0.9       0.7     1.6        45
Secondary canals and structures  11.5         11.0    22.5       4.8      4.6    9.4         49
Tertiary canals and structures        6.3      6.5    12.8       2.6      2.7    5.3         51
Drainage and flood
control works                       5.3      6.2     11.5      2.2      2.6    4.8         55
Roads and bridges                     3.2      2.7      5.9      1.4      1.1    2.5         45
Land acquisition                      8.2        -      8.2      3.4        -    3.4          0
Engineering and supervision           3.1      0.2      3.3      1.3      0.1     1.4         5
Subtotal                        39.7    28.4    68.1       16.6     11.8   28.4         42
Sungei Manik Irrigation Works
Headworks and main
canal improvements                 0.8      0.6       1.4     0.3      0.3    0.6         45
Secondary canals and
structures                          1.6      1.6     3.2      0.7      0.6    1.3          49
Tertiary canals and structures        3.9      4.0      7.9      1.6      1.7    3.3         51
Drainage and flood
control works                       1.4      1.7     3.1      0.6      0.7     1.3        55
Roads and bridges                     2.5      2.0      4.5      1.0      0.9    1.9         45
Land acquisition                      1.1        -      1.1      0.4        -    0.4          0
Engineering and supervision           1.5      0.1      1.6      0.7        -    0.7          5
Subtotal                        12.8    10.0    22.8        5.3      4.2    9.5         43
Buildings
Offices                               0.6      0.3     0.9      0.3      0.1    0.4          30
Stores and workshops                  1.9     0.8      2.7      0.8      0.3    1.1         30
Staff quarters                        2.4      1.0     3.4       1.0     0.4    1.4         30
Subtotal                         4.9      2.1      7.0      2.1      0.8    2.9         30
Equipment
Agricultural equipment                0.2      2.0      2.2     0.1      0.8    0.9         90
O&M equipment                         0.2      2.9      3.1     0.1      1.2    1.3         95
Subtotal                         0.4      4.9      5.3      0.2      2.0    2.2         92
Muda Dams Study                         0.2      1.0      1.2      0.1      0.4    0.5         80
Consultants and Training                0.5      0.4      0.9      0.2     0.2    0.4         44
Base cost estimate                     58.5    46.8   105.3    24.5    19.4   43.9            44
Physical contingencies                  7.9      6.2    14.1      3.3      2.6    5.9         44
Expected price increases               14.1    10.9    25.0        5.9     4.5   10.4         44
Total project cost              80.6    63.8   144.4    33.7    26.5   60.2             44



- 21 -
3.29      Force account work would include the fabrication and supply of
aluminum roller gates and gears for tidal control structures, which would be
executed by the DID Federal Workshop in Ipoh, and improvements to main canals
and drains. The total cost of such work is estimated at US$1.1 million.
3.30      Agricultural and operation and maintenance equipment and vehicles
(US$2.9 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of
these items. Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$20,000 each
and limited to a total of US$500,000, would be procured through normal
Government procedures.
Disbursements
3.31      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange expenditures on directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100%
of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 80% of the
total cost of locally procured items. Disbursements for civil works
executed by contract would equal 52% of total costs. Disbursement for force
account work (para. 3.29) would equal 52% of total costs, and would be made
against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation for which would be
retained by the borrower and be available for inspection by the Bank during
the course of project supervision. For consulting services, the Muda dams
study, overseas fellowships and study tours, disbursements would equal 100%
of total cost. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1984. Estimated expenditure and disbursement schedules for the
project and a proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan are presented
in Annex 2, Tables 7-9.
Accounts and Audits
3.32      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government control and audit procedures. Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  all agencies involved in project implementation would maintain
separate accounts for the project;
(b)  all project accounts would be collated by the Project Coordinator
(para. 4.01);
(c)  the Government's Auditor General or other auditors satisfactory
to the Bank would audit these accounts; and
(d)  the Project Coordinator would send the audited project accounts,
together with the auditors' comments, to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each financial year.



- 22 -
Environmental Effects
3.33      Additional developmental work in the existing Krian and Sungei
Manik irrigation areas would not have adverse effects on the environment.
Drainage improvements in the almost continuously flooded low-lying areas
would reduce the amount of stagnant water and thus reduce hazards from
water-associated diseases and pests. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides are
already widely used in the areas and extension services would continue to
advise against the use of chemicals toxic to fish. Project works in Krian
would not disturb the coastal mangrove fringe, and in fact would protect the
coastline from further erosion (para. 3.02).
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination and Organization
4.01      All the federal agencies which would be directly involved in the
implementation of the project - DID, DOA, FOA, and BPM - are under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) (para. 2.17). While each
agency would be responsible for implementing specific activities within its
jurisdiction, responsibility for coordinating all project activities would
rest with a Project Coordinator in MOA. The Project Coordinator's main
administrative responsibilities would include assisting the project agencies
in the planning of joint field extension programs (para. 4.04) and in prepar-
ing requests for the staff and operating budgets required to implement those
programs; assisting in planning construction of facilities and equipment
procurement programs which would fulfill the various agency requirements;
representing the project in periodic meetings with the Public Services
Department, the Treasury, and Perak State Government agencies; monitoring and
evaluating the progress of implementation actions and project effects and
benefits; and reporting on the progress of the project (particularly on
behalf of DOA, FOA and BPM) to the Steering Committee (para. 4.02) and the
Bank. The appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Coordinator would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The
Project Coordinator, who would be stationed in the Krian area, would be
assisted by a Deputy Project Coordinator (stationed in the Sungei Manik
area), and an administrative officer. An economist in MOA would be assigned
to assist with project monitoring and evaluation.
4.02      The Project Coordinator would be guided on policy matters by a
Steering Committee composed of the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture, the State Secretary of Perak, and other officials they may
nominate. Involvement of the State Secretary would ensure the participation
of both state-level agencies and officers and the District Officers, who are
in charge of local governmental functions, and should facilitate coordination
of project activities at the grass roots level. Establishment of the Steering
Committee would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.03      The Project Coordinator would have to provide close and continuous
liaison among the implementing agencies in order to maximize the impact of



- 23 -
the project on the target population. An early and important task would be
the organization of small groups of farmers which would be contacted by the
various agencies for agricultural extension, marketing, input supply, credit,
water management, and operation and maintenance purposes. The organization
of these groups would have to instill a cooperative spirit necessary for the
successful operation of relatively complex irrigation and drainage systems
and for the efficient provision of agricultural services to some 24,000
smallholder families. Such groups have operated successfully (on a small
scale) in the project area in the past, particularly when formed voluntarily
on the basis of natural residential and kinship patterns. The first step in
this effort would be to ensure that the local field staff of the various
agencies are themselves organized and aware of each other's activities and
that they meet the farmers jointly and with a unified program which would
become possible through the common workbase, the Farmers' Development Center
(FDC) (para. 3.15).
4.04      The Project Coordinator would have to ensure that agricultural
recommendations, developed for the subproject areas by the Malaysian Agricul-
tural Research and Development Institute (MARDI) and the Federal DOA Technical
Support Units in Perak, are translated into simple field recommendations
delivered and demonstrated by the DOA extension staff, and that recommended
inputs are available in appropriate quantities through the FOA. For this
purpose, the Project Coordinator would function as a member of the State
Agricultural Planning Committee. This committee is composed of senior
state-level officers from all agriculture-related agencies. A technical
subcommittee of this body is presently being established to review and revise
extension recommendations and to promote new avenues of research. Finally,
the Project Coordinator would have to ensure that adequate credit is available
through BPM to enable farmers to purchase recommended inputs. On the last
point assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Project Coordinator would prepare, in consultation with FOA,
DOA, and BPM staff, a statement of annual agricultural credit
requirements, to be submitted to BPM, FOA, and the Bank not later
than three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year;
(b) GOM would thereafter ensure that an adequate amount of BPM credit
be made available to project area farmers either directly or
through the FDCs; and
(c) an adequate number of credit officers would be made available at
FDCs, both by FOA and BPM, to process credit in a timely manner and
to facilitate timely repayments by farmers.
Agency Responsibilities
4.05      Drainage and Irrigation Department.  DID would be responsible for
implementing all project civil works. Final design work would be executed
by DID, which has appointed a team of key start-up staff including two senior
engineers, three irrigation engineers, and four technicians. To ensure that



- 24 -
design concepts, features, assumptions, and data are effectively transmitted
from the design staff to the District-level staff who will eventually operate
and maintain the completed systems, assurances were obtained that upon
completion of final design a designer's operation manual covering major
project works would be prepared. Local consultants would be employed as
required to assist DID in preparing final designs and tenders of project
works (para. 4.14). Construction supervision would be undertaken jointly by
Federal and Perak DID, under the direction of the Perak State Director of
Drainage and Irrigation. Perak State DID would assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance of works upon completion and acceptance by Federal
DID. Detailed estimates of engineering staff requirements for all phases of
project implementation are presented in Annex 2, Table 10. An assurance
was obtained that all DID staff required to design, implement, operate
and maintain the project would be appointed.
4.06      Department of Agriculture.  DOA would assume primary responsibility
for the organization and operation of the agricultural services component
of the project, with the assistance of the Project Coordinator (para. 4.01).
As agricultural extension is a State responsibility, the Perak State Director
of Agriculture would be administratively responsible for the allocation
of extension staff to the project and for the general direction of the
extension effort in both subproject areas. Extension services to about
1,300 farm families in the portion of Krian which lies in the State of Penang
would be provided by Penang State DOA and supervised by the Project Coordi-
nator. The two State Departments of Agriculture would coordinate operations
to ensure that the Penang area remains in phase with the rest of Krian.
Under the National Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) five Agricultural Techni-
cians (ATs) would be added to the present force of 18 extension agents
serving Krian. Additional staff would be provided under the present project
to complement the proposed irrigation and drainage infrastructure with an
intensified agricultural services program aimed at raising smallholder
agricultural incomes to the maximum extent possible. To implement the
agricultural extension program, Perak State DOA would require the appointment
of a Project Agricultural Officer, an additional 17 ATs, and support staff
for Krian, and 1 senior AA, 7 ATs, and support staff for Sungei Manik. The
Federal Technical Support Units in Perak (for crop production, crop protection
and farm mechanization) require 3 Subject Matter Specialists (AO level),
5 AAs, 8 ATs, and support staff. The proposed organization of agricultural
extension services is presented in Figure 4.1, while Reference B 1 provides
operational and organizational details. An assurance was obtained that
all DOA staff required to serve the subproject areas would be appointed.
4.07      The operational methodology of the proposed agricultural services
program is based largely on the training-visit system of agricultural
extension, modified to suit Malaysian institutions and the requirements of
the smallholders in the subproject areas. DOA staff would be expected to
take the lead in implementing the first step of the program, the organization
of the farmer groups (para. 4.03). Groups would comprise an average of 50
farmers, and each DOA extension AT would visit 16 such groups (or 800 farmers)
on a regular basis, once per two-week period. Group leaders would be selected
with the participation of the farmers, as would subgroup leaders for water
management, credit, and input supply.



- 25 -
During his visit, the AT would review the condition of demonstration plots
and fields with the farmers, and advise them on the most important agricul-
tural operations required by their crops over the next two weeks, such as
choice of varieties to plant, fertilizer and pesticide applications, timing
and techniques of nursery establishment, ploughing, water management, har-
vesting, threshing, and drying. DID, FOA and BPM staff would accompany the
DOA AT as required to emphasize points of immediate importance related to
their responsibilities, such as schedules of irrigation supply and pre-harvest
drainage and water conservation practices; availabilities and prices of inputs
and tractor, transport, and marketing services provided by the FDCs; and sche-
dules for credit applications and repayments. Agricultural Assistants stationed
at the FDCs would supervise six or seven ATs and would conduct regular bi-weekly
training sessions for them at the FDCs, supported by Subject Matter Specialists
and senior staff of the cooperating agencies. Field staff of FOA, BPM, and DID
serving the same farmer groups would also attend these training sessions.
4.08      The proposed operational methodology of the agricultural services
program has evolved through a series of Bank projects in Malaysia over the
past two years, and detailed operational aspects of the services provided by
each agency and their integration are provided in appraisal reports and work-
ing papers listed in Annex 5. The methodology is currently being implemented
with considerable success in the North Kelantan project area (Loan 1294-MA),
and in a large pilot area in the Northwest Selangor project area. Extension
operations are currently being initiated in a pilot area of 800 ha in Krian,
which will enable the cooperating agencies to update and refine the operational
guidelines of the agricultural services system for the subproject areas.
Accordingly, assurances have been obtained that Perak DOA, in consultation
with DID, FOA, and BPM, would prepare an agricultural services operations
manual as a guide for field extension staff by September 1, 1979.
4.09      DOA is also responsible for production and distribution of approved
seed varieties to farmers. Breeders seed is supplied to the Federal DOA Seed
Production Center in Krian, for the multiplication of foundation seed. Seed
from this center is then supplied to a total of seven production centers in
Krian, one operated by Federal DOA and the rest by Perak DOA. Under the
project, a small seed farm would also be established under the auspices of
Perak DOA in Sungei Manik. Although there is a seed exchange program, few
farmers have used it, mainly because the varieties available have not been in
demand. Under the project, farmers would require shorter duration varieties
than the presently popular Mat Candu, which is difficult to double crop
reliably because of its 150-day term. MARDI has recently developed a high-
yielding 120-125 day variety, MR7 (C4-63 x Tadukan), which is resistant to
blast (Pyricularia oryzae), and which has shown farmer acceptance in the Muda
area. This variety may be suitable for Krian and Sungei Manik, once a
reasonable degree of water control is established by the engineering works
proposed under the project. With the threat of an increase in brown plant-
hopper (Nilaparvata lugens) populations in Malaysia, the increase of varieties
specifically resistant to this pest is also important. Future seed require-
ments, about 250 ton/annum assuming seed replacement every three years, would



- 26 -
be met by the seed certification program to be implemented under the National
Extension Project (1493-MA). Variety requirements and recommendations for
the subproject areas would be reviewed by the State Agricultural Planning
Committee (para. 4.04) beforethe commencement of each cropping season, and
DOA would arrange to distribute an adequate supply of the required seeds
through the FDCs and seed farms.
4.10      MARDI would gradually strengthen the Parit Buntar rice research
unit in Krian. Office, laboratory and workshop space would be provided for a
total of 10 officers. Farm equipment and machinery would mainly be supplied
from the nearby Bumbong Lima Research Station. Research would concentrate on
nearby developing disease resistant varieties with a growing period of
120-140 days, selecting varieties suitable for organic muck and acid sulphate
soils, and refining fertilizer and pest control recommendations. The research
programs centered at Parit would also be strengthened to serve the needs of
Sungei Manik farmers. Both research facilities serving subproject areas
would further receive increased support from the Bumbong Lima Rice Research
Station which is being expanded and is receiving additional staff under the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA).
4.11      Farmers Organization Authority.  FOA is responsible for assisting
farmers with the supply of inputs and tractor services, with the transport,
marketing, and drying of harvested padi, and with the extension and recovery
of BPM credit. Despite inadequate facilities and staff, FOA did manage to
supply 1,140 tons of fertilizers to farmers in the subproject areas in 1976,
to provide tractor services for soil preparation in Sungei Manik (drainage
conditions have severely restricted mechanical preparation in Krian), and to
provide about US$15,000 worth of insecticides, all in competition with
private storekeepers and contractors. Demand for these services would
increase substantially under the project, and in particular the agro-chemical
turnover should increase substantially with campaigns by the DOA extension
service to encourage preventive application of systemic chemicals for control
of planthoppers and stemborers when warranted. The facilities (para. 3.15)
and equipment (para. 3.16) required by FOA to fulfill these responsibilities
would be directly financed under the project. To fully staff the facilities,
and to achieve an overall staffing level which would permit FOA to play its
role in the integrated agricultural services program, Perak FOA would require
3 additional AA-level FDC managers, 19 AT-level field officers, and support
staff (Reference B1). Assurances were obtained that all FOA staff required
to operate FDC facilities and to participate in padi credit operations in the
subproject areas would be appointed.
4.12      Bank Pertanian Malaysia.  BPM staff would work closely with FOA
staff in expanding institutional smallholder credit in the subproject areas.
In Krian, BPM operations have been largely restricted to the better drained
and irrigated areas of Krian Darat, as the poor drainage conditions in Krian
Laut have almost totally prohibited contract tractor services and have
severely depressed fertilizer and pesticide usage. In the areas with good
drainage and reasonably assured irrigation, BPM provided short-term padi
production credit (at 4.25% interest per six-month season) to over 3,000
farmers, directly financing 28% of the farmers in those areas and 35% of the
padi area planted. Credit disbursed has averaged US$110/ha, and repayments
for past years have ranged between 90% and 100%, with requests for extension



- 27 -
due mainly to crop damage by pests and inadequate irrigation water supply
(References B5 and B7). In addition, BPM surveys indicate that the agency's
credit is actually reaching a larger proportion of the farmers than indicated
above, as larger farmers have regularly on-lent the credit to poorer neigh-
bors and relatives. A BPM office was opened in Teluk Anson in mid-1977 to
serve the Sungei Manik area, and commenced operations with both padi produc-
tion credit and medium-term loans for contract land levelling and equipment.
FOA also made short-term loans to 120 farmers through the Sungei Manik FDC
in 1977.
4.13       Under the project all FDCs would be designated as local credit
centers to handle BPM credit, and FOA and BPM would adopt the same methods of
credit assessment and would share the responsibility for making the assess-
ment. With the assistance of the DOA extension workers creditworthiness
assessment would be converted from a seasonal activity undertaken by a few
individual FOA credit workers to a year-round activity handled as part of the
overall extension effort. One thrust of the BPM effort would be to provide
credit directly, as it does for other loan categories, to farmers unable or
unwilling to become members of the Farmers Organizations based at the FDCs,
who at present frequently find it difficult to gain access to institutional
credit programs. The number of BPM credit officers would in 1978 increase
from 11 to 20 and they would serve the subproject areas from the project
FDCs and sub-FDCs, as well as directly from the BPM offices in Bagan Serai
and Teluk Anson. Office space would be provided for BPM credit officers in
each FDC. Assurances were obtained that all BPM staff required to serve
the subproject areas would be appointed.
Consulting Services
4.14       DID has extensive experience in the design, execution, operation,
and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works, and its design staff is
fully competent to design the range of works and structures included in the
present project. However, in view of the fact that the agency is currently
designing and supervising construction of four ongoing Bank projects, cover-
ing a total of 86,000 net ha of irrigation for padi and 230,000 ha of drain-
age for tree crops, in addition to numerous locally financed irrigation,
drainage, flood control, water supply, and harbor improvement projects, the
volume of work required may soon exceed the capacity of DID's cadre of
experienced engineers and technicians. To augment the numbers of DID staff
available for assignment to this project, contract consultant services
including 100 man-months of engineers, 50 man-months of technical assistants,
and 120 man-months of technicians and draftsmen, would be provided under the
project. Consultants would be engaged through a local engineering firm, but
would be formed into teams with experienced DID design staff under the direc-
tion of the Project Engineer. Total costs of the consultant input, including
overhead and expenses, are expected to average US$1,230/month for engineers,
US$900/month for technical assistants, and US$405/month for technicians and
draftsmen. Assurances were obtained that consultants engaged by DID for
project implementation would be acceptable to the Bank and would be engaged
as required, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 28 -
Training
4.15      The project would include funds for overseas short and medium term
training and study tours for selected DID, MOA, DOA and FOA staff in the
fields of irrigation system management and operation, padi production and
extension, and four advanced degree courses in tropical agriculture for DOA
staff. Four DOA Subject Matter Specialists would attend Crop Production and
Crop Protection courses at IRRI in the Philippines. Four extension super-
visors and four FDC managers and six selected personnel otherwise involved in
executing the project would visit neighboring countries where integrated
agricultural extension services are being implemented. In-service training
for DOA extension, FOA and BPM staff would be provided on a continuing basis
at Regional Extension Training and Development Centers and other institutions.
The Project Coordinator would collate and prepare an annual in-service staff
training program and would ensure that adequate funds for this purpose are
budgeted by the respective agencies.
Right-of-Way
4.16      The Perak State Department of Lands and Mines is responsible for
land acquisition and property compensation in the subproject areas. A total
of 820 ha (affecting 16,000 lots) in Krian, and 100 ha (affecting 2,000 lots)
in Sungei Manik would be acquired during the course of project implementation.
The Department has already appointed the additional staff required to com-
plete land acquisition procedures on schedule and has initiated land acquisi-
tion in the Krian area.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would increase padi production by providing farmers
with vastly improved water control on their holdings, including reliable
irrigation supply at optimum times; capacity to drain their land when required;
substantial protection from flooding due to high tides, overspill of rivers,
and localized monsoon rainfall; and the capability to complete their water
management tasks much more rapidly than at present. Project area farmers
have enough experience and knowledge of padi-farming to be able to take
advantage of the improved infrastructure systems through changes in cultiva-
tion practices and input usage. However, changes in the smallholders'
agricultural practices can be directed and accelerated by an integrated
agricultural extension effort, to make quicker and fuller use of improved
facilities to increase their production and incomes. This is the function of
the project's agricultural services component. Penetration of the agricul-
tural areas by extension and credit workers, and marketing and input supply
activities, would be facilitated by the access road and bridge construction
elements of the project. Despite the fact that an additional 330 ha would be
brought under command in Sungei Manik, there would be a negligible decline in
total net padi area due to land acquisition for project works. The changes
in padi area are summarized in Table 5.1.



- 29 -
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED PADI AREA
Present            With Project
 ______----(ha)------------
Krian                     24,000               23,500
Sungei Manik               6,230                6,560
Total                30,230               30,060 -
Present Cropping Patterns
5.02      All available land under command in Krian is utilized for padi
growing. Krian Laut is now operated as a controlled drainage area where
water levels are maintained at an artificially high level to ensure water
availability, and agricultural practices have evolved to suit this condition
(para. 2.10). Extremely soft terrain, and a water depth from 15-50 cm do not
allow soil preparation by animals or machines in most areas. Weeds and the
previous rice stubble are slashed by a scythe and then raked onto the bunds.
In 1976 some 78% of Krian farmers used this method as the only field prepara-
tion. About 21% of the farmers, almost all of whom live in the better drained
Krian Darat area, used power tillers. Because of unreliable water control,
farmers use a floating nursery (a raft made from banana leaves, covered with
soil and grass), or a seedbed along the road (banana leaves with soil, covered
with coconut palm fronds and grass) for the first two weeks. The seedlings are
then transplanted in clumps of about 100 seedlings into a nursery on a high part
of the field where they remain for another four to six weeks, depending on the
seedling height required for the water depth on the field.
5.03      Land preparation in Sungei Manik is by tractor where adequate
drainage permits. Although more than half the farmers now use pedestrian
tractors, the use of four-wheel tractors is increasing, particularly in
Stage IV. Where drainage is poor (about 20% of the area) and the land does
not support a tractor or animals, the scythe is the only tool used for a
superficial cutting and raking off of the debris. Although the floating
nursery is used in deep water areas, single seedbeds are common in areas with
good water control.
5.04      Farmers in both areas generally use their own seed of improved or
local varieties, usually selecting panicles from the previous crop. The main
variety is Mat Candu, a variety not recommended by MARDI because it is not
resistant to blast (Piricularia oryzae), and the seed is therefore not pro-
duced or distributed by DOA. The variety has proven to be suitable for deep
water conditions and local cultural practices. This rather tall variety
(120 cm) matures in 150-165 days, depending on strain (varietal variability)
and length of seedbed period, and commands a good market price because of the
preferred taste. Improved Mahsuri, a blast-resistant variety released by
MARDI which matures in 145-150 days, is the second most popular variety, and



- 30 -
a limited supply of seed is available from DOA. Mat Candu's long growing
season is one of the main factors leading to a nonadherance to officially
gazetted planting dates, which are determined by a committee of officials
and farmers. Untimely cultural operations and the use of long duration
varieties has led to a wide staggering of planting dates, and most farmers
miss one crop in two years. The cropping intensity in Krian is at present
160%, comprising 85% of the area in the main season and 75% in the off-
season. The cropping intensity in Sungei Manik is 145%, with 75% of the area
having a main-season crop and 70% having a dry-season crop. Details on
recent crop scheduling, fertilizer usage, pests and methods used to control
them, and cultural and harvesting practices are presented in Reference B 1.
Future Cropping Patterns
5.05      In the absence of the project there would be no significant change
in cropping pattern. A slight increase in yields would be possible in the
better drained areas, with development of higher-yielding padi varieties. In
the poorly drained areas, which represent over half the total project area,
no change in varieties would occur. The currently popular varieties (parti-
cularly Mat Candu) are well adapted to deep water conditions and the double-
transplanting methods which have evolved to cope with them, and have a slight
price advantage over established varieties released by MARDI due to taste
preferences.
5.06      Under the project the average cropping intensity in the subproject
areas would increase from 157% to 190%. A strict adherence to double-cropping
schedules would be possible because of reduction of presaturation periods to
a maximum of 30 days for each irrigation block; the timely evacuation of
drainage water; the use of shorter duration varieties (para. 4.09), such as
Improved Mahsuri (para. 5.04) and MR7 (para. 4.09), with better and more
assured water control; and an expansion of mechanization with better drainage
and access (para. 5.10).
Yields and Production
5.07      Average padi yields in the subproject areas would increase substan-
tially with improved water control facilities due to six major factors: conver-
sion from double-transplanting (floating nursery) techniques to standard wet
seedbed techniques; conversion to padi varieties with higher yield potential;
better land preparation with improved drainage; increased use of fertilizer
and insecticide in lower risk conditions; better timing of planting and hence
harvesting seasons; and maintenance of more appropriate water levels during
various growth stages. Present yields are based on crop cutting data for the
last five years and future yields are based on experience gained in the Muda
area and from experimental work within the project area taking account of
soil conditions and the likely use of inputs. Present and future crop yields
are presented in Table 5.2. The projected average yields would be achieved
five years after completion of the project.



- 31 -
Table 5.2: PRESENT AND PROJECTED YIELDS
Present       Future without project  Future with project
Krian  S. Manik    Krian       S. Manik      Krian    S. Manik
--- ------ --------- (ton/ha) -------------------------
Main-season padi  2.5        2.1        2.7          2.3         3.6        3.1
Off-season padi   2.6        2.2        2.8          2.4         3.8        3.3
5.08      As a result of the project, padi production would increase by 75%
from 117,200 tons at present to 204,800 tons at full development. Incremental
production over the projected future output without the project would be
78,100 tons, an increase of 62%. Present and future cropped areas, production
and cropping intensities are shown in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3: CROPPING PATTERN AND PADI PRODUCTION
Cropped area                    Production
Present
& future                           Future   Future
without                            without   with
project        Future /a Present  project  project/a
--- (ha)                 --------- (tons) --------
Krian:
Main Season              20,400         23,500     51,000   55,100   84,600
Off season                18,000        21,150     46,800   50,400   80,400
Sungei Manik:
Main Season                4,670         6,560       9,800   10,700   20,300
Off season                 4,360         5,900       9,600   10,500   19,500
Total                  47,430        57,110      117,200 126,700  204,800
Cropping Intensity             157%          190%
/a At full project development in 1989.
Crop Management
5.09      The staggered padi cropping calender proposed for the subproject
areas is presented in Figure 3.1. Harvest and land preparation of
the subsequent crop would generally take place in the drier months, while
transplanting and crop growth would occur in high rainfall months. Aside
from emphasizing the points mentioned above (para. 5.07), the DOA extension
service would work with farmers to improve the general level of crop manage-
ment. At present there are usually two rounds of hand weeding, one a few
weeks after transplanting and one at late tillering. This practice would
continue, but some chemical weed control would be adopted by progressive



- 32 -
farmers. Suitable chemicals are available for the control of both broad-
leafed weeds and grasses. Their effectiveness is assured with timely and
correct applications and with good water management, which would be possible
under the project. With improved water management the basic fertilizer
mixture, usually a combination of N and P 0  would be incorporated into the
soil prior to transplanting. Urea would be5applied as split top dressings at
tillering and at panicle initiation. If present experiments continue to give
satisfactory results, MARDI would recommend K 20 as a topdressing at early
tillering. Where labor shortages occur during transplanting, direct seeding
of pregerminated seeds onto well-drained mud, or directly into a depth of
10-15 cm water would be introduced. If stemborers or brown plant-hoppers
become a severe problem, granular systemic insecticides would be incorporated
into the soil prior to transplanting or seeding to prevent losses of chem-
icals and to allow a quick uptake of the chemical through the roots. A
second or third application of the chemical may further be required during
crop growth. Other pests would be controlled by curative spraying with
suitable chemicals when damage becomes obvious. Rats would be controlled by
a combination of chemicals in acceptable baits, by gassing the burrows, and
by community hunts. Bird scaring would be required where and when damage
becomes excessive. Water depth would be maintained at optimal levels,
generally between 5 and 15 cm, depending on topography of the fields.
Field drainage may be required for the application of fertilizers and agro-
chemicals and possibly rat control. Fields would be finally drained at the
milk or early dough stage of grain development to facilitate harvesting and
a thorough drying of the soil for a dry land preparation.
Farm Mechanization
5.10      By project completion, farmers would be able to drain crops during
ripening, which would allow soils to dry out sufficiently for dry-soil land
preparation for the next crop. Under these conditions mechanized soil
preparation would expand rapidly in Krian Darat and Sungei Manik, but soils
in Krian Laut would first have to develop a plough pan before they could
support tractors. However, after a few years of two drying cycles per annum,
mechanization would be introduced gradually. By full project development, an
estimated 90% of the Krian Darat area and 25% of Krian Laut would be prepared
by power tillers or four-wheeled tractors. In the remaining area of Krian
Laut traditional methods of land preparation, which also require some control
of water depths (e.g., manual cultivation with hoes and animal-powered
plowing), would replace scything weeds. The introduction of soil preparation
alone would lead to more efficient transplanting and better plant stands, and
thus higher yields. The expansion of tractor operations in Krian would be
implemented by both private contractors and FDCs (para. 3.16), and financed
by BPM (para. 4.12) as well as farmers' own resources and private sources of
credit. In Sungei Manik more than 80% of the farmers now use pedestrian or
four-wheeled tractors. This usage would increase to 100% by full project
development.
Harvest and Transport
5.11      Crops would initially continue to be hand-harvested and hand-
threshed. Drying of fields would reduce the number of man-hours required for
this purpose because the bundles of straw would be laid on the stubble prior



- 33 -
to threshing, rather than carried to bunds and other high areas. The intro-
duction of self-propelled combine harvesters would occur gradually, particu-
larly on the larger farms, following the increased adoption of this method of
harvesting in the nearby Muda region. Soils in Krian Laut and possibly most
of the muck soils in Krian Darat would have insufficient carrying capacity
for heavy machinery, and hand-harvesting would probably continue in these
areas. With the completion of the proposed access road network, threshed
grain would be mainly transported by trucks and vans rather than by motor-
cycle and bicycle, the current highly laborious method. Improved access and
timely harvest would assure less sun-cracked and less germinated grain on the
panicle and thus an improved mill return with less broken grain.
Milling Facilities
5.12      There are currently 21 licensed private rice mills operating in
Krian, of which five have mechanical driers with a total drying capacity of
22.5 ton/hr. In addition, a new LPN mill complex was opened near Parit Buntar
in July 1977. This complex has a mechanical drying capacity of 20 ton/hr,
reducing the grain moisture content 3% per pass, and a sun-drying floor
for 30 tons of padi. The total storage capacity is 8,000 tons, of which
2,000 tons can be stored in bags and 6,000 tons in 8 silos. The milling
capacity of this large complex is 6 tons of padi per hour. In addition, many
unlicensed small mills provide milling capacity for the home consumption of
farmers. There are also numerous mills operating in the State of Penang and
there is much competition for padi which results in relatively high farmgate
padi prices. Traditionally, farmers sell only extremely wet padi to LPN,
while dry padi is sold to traders or private mills. Milling and storage
capacity in Krian is adequate, and when required private industry would
expand the capacity to cope with increased production.
5.13      Farmers in Sungei Manik sell about 70% of their padi production.
Only a small percentage of farmers sell directly to the LPN complex in Teluk
Anson, with most selling to one of the 25 licensed private mills in the area.
Farmers mainly dry the padi on roads or on mats around the house, after rough
winnowing. There is adequate storage and milling capacity, and private
millers would be able to absorb any increase in production.
6. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES. FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES
Market Prospects
6.01      Despite the Government's long-term goal of approximate self-
sufficiency in rice, and its impressive efforts in support of that goal in
terms of investments in irrigation infrastructure and the upgrading of the
entire range of agricultural supporting services, Malaysia continues to be
dependent on imports to satisfy its rice requirements. Between 1964 and
1974 domestic production increased by over 70% to 1.3 million tons of
milled rice, chiefly due to the increases in cropping intensity achieved by
the Muda and Kemubu Irrigation Projects (para. 1.02). During the same period
there was a corresponding decline in imports of 38%, and an increase in the



- 34 -
degree of self-sufficiency to 83%. Since 1974 production appears to have
stagnated, in part due to recurrent unusually severe droughts in the west
coast rice areas, and imports rose to 280,000 tons in 1977. Government pro-
jections of domestic rice production, taking into account the effects of all
ongoing and contemplated irrigation projects, imply an increase in production
of 3.4% per annum, to 2.1 million tons in 1990. Projections of demand are
based purely on population growth forecasts (2.7% per annum), with no increase
in per capita consumption (120 kg/annum). These projections imply that
Malaysia will continue to import over 90,000 tons of milled rice beyond 1990,
and that all incremental domestic rice production will continue to find a
ready market in Malaysia. The present project would result in an incremental
production of 57,000 tons of milled rice (87,600 tons of padi) by 1989,
slightly less than 3% of the total domestic supply.
6.02      On the local level, marketing infrastructure is well established
and market prospects are good. The LPN and private mills actively compete
for the farmers' marketable surplus, resulting in farm-gate prices typically
above the support prices established each season by LPN (para. 6.03). In
addition, high moisture grain can be sold (at a slight discount) to the
larger mills and LPN complexes, which have mechanical drying facilities
(para. 5.12). Construction of padi drying floors at all FDC complexes
under the project would assist in the drying of padi before delivery to the
mill.
Prices
6.03      Financial farmgate prices are based on the annually determined
guaranteed minimum price, from which deductions are made for the presence of
impurities and moisture in excess of 14%. The current official LPN offer
price is M$504/ton for long grain padi at the mill gate, M$470/ton for medium
grain, and M$437/ton for short grain padi. Actual purchase prices paid by LPN
and local buyers are often slightly higher. The price received by farmers for
padi, based on local surveys, averaged M$487/ton in Krian and M$470/ton in
Sungei Manik in 1977, and these prices were kept constant in the financial
analysis. Inputs were priced at actual farmgate prices, which are closely
linked to world market prices.
6.04      Although the project output would substitute for the highest grades
of Chinese and Thai rice (which are the grades commonly imported), for
purposes of economic analysis it is assumed that the mixture of grades to be
produced under the project would equal in value the standard 15% broken Thai
grade. This grade is typically traded internationally at prices 10% below
those of the Thai 5% broken grade for which the Bank's Economic Analysis
and Projections Department makes long-term projections. Using an average
rice:padi conversion ratio (mill return) of 65%, and assuming that the
primary market for project output would be the heavily populated Ipoh area,
the equivalent economic farm-gate price for padi would rise from M$499/ton of
padi in 1978 to M$627/ton (US$261/ton) in 1980 and thereafter, in constant
1978 values (Table 6.1).



- 35 -
Table 6.1: RICE PRICE STRUCTURE
(in constant 1978 values)
1978     1979   1980-85
Rice
Export price Thai 5% broken, f.o.b.
Bangkok (US$/ton)                                    330        372       421
Grade differential (less 10%)(US$/ton)                  297       335       379
Exchange rate conversion (US$1 = M$2.4)(M$/ton)         713       804       910
Shipping and handling /a (M$/ton)                     +100       +100      +100
Wholesale price of rice, Ipoh (M$/ton)                  813       904    1,010
Transport cost from subproject areas to
Ipoh (M$/ton)                                        -15        -15       -15
Rice price, subproject areas                            798       891       995
Padi equivalent price (65% mill return) (M$/ton)    519           579       647
Milling and marketing cost not covered
by value of by-products (M$/ton)                     -20        -20       -20
Economic farm-gate price, subproject areas              499       559       627
(M$/ton)
Financial farm-gate price, Krian (M$/ton)               487       487       487
/a  Shipping and handling:  M$47/ton for ocean freight and insurance, Bangkok
to Port Klang or Penang; M$29/ton for port handling; M$24/ton for road
transport from Penang or Port Klang to Ipoh (240 km x M$0.10/ton-km).
Farm Incomes
6.05      Farm budgets have been prepared for three representative model
farms for each of the two subprojects. For Krian the net padi area of the
models are 0.7 ha, representing the smallest 34% of all farms; 1 ha, repre-
senting the middle 37% and the average for Krian; and 1.5 ha, representing
the largest 29% of the farms. For Sungei Manik the model padi areas are
1 ha, 2 ha, and 2.5 ha, representing 41%, 29%, and 30% respectively of all
farms. Three general types of farm operation were also identified, as
follows:



- 36 -
(a) all farm operations performed manually by family and neighbors;
(b) all farm operations performed manually, by family labor assisted
by hired labor gangs engaged through local contractors; and
(c) farm operations performed by a mix of family labor, contracted
labor, and hired or contracted equipment.
The estimated proportional distribution of these three types of operation
for various farm activities, at present and in the future, is presented in
Annex 3, Table I for Krian and Sungei Manik. The estimated economic and
financial cost per ha of each type of operation is derived for various
activities in Annex 3, Table 2. In Annex 3, Table 3, different proportional
distributions of the three types of operation are presented for each of the
six farm models as part of the determination of average economic and finan-
cial crop production costs. Finally, Annex 3, Tables 4-6 present full
annual financial farm budgets for each of the farm models, for the present,
future without project, and future with project cases.
6.06      Estimates of input usage (Annex 3, Table 2), prevalence of types
of operation, and other relevant parameters were based on MOA surveys of the
subproject areas and interviews with farmers during project preparation and
appraisal. Projections of future input levels with the project are based on
the current recommended practices in the Muda area and on results from field
trials in the subproject areas. Financial labor costs (M$3/day in slack
seasons and M$4/day during transplanting and harvesting) are based on sur-
veyed contract rates in the subproject areas, are reasonably close to casual
labor rates (M$4.33/day) paid by DID and PWD, and have been taken to repre-
sent the economic value of farmers' own labor. Estimates of off-farm incomes
were also based on survey results, and are assumed to remain constant with
the project. Household subsistence rice consumption is based on survey data
for family size (5.3 for Krian and 5.6 in Sungei Manik) and per capita rice
consumption (144 kg in Krian and 168 kg in Sungei Manik).
6.07      The farmers of Krian and Sungei Manik pay a wide variety of land-
based taxes to the Perak and Penang State Governments through the respective
District Land Offices, including irrigation rates, quit rents and education
rates, averaging a total of M$16 per annum for the average I ha farm in Krian
and M$29 for the typical 2 ha farm in Sungei Manik. These tax payments are
not projected to rise in the foreseeable future. The only production-related
tax paid by padi farmers is zakat, the Islamic padi production tithe, paid
to the State Departments of Religious Affairs, which uses the receipts
to finance the religious school system, teachers' salaries, welfare expenses,
and maintenance of mosques.  Zakat is paid by all Moslem padi farmers L, in
Peninsular Malaysia on production in excess of bare subsistence requirements,
as determined by officials of the Department. Payment rates vary from state
to state, but are highest in Perak, claiming 10% of the total padi crop in
/1 Virtually 100% of the padi farmers in Krian and Sungei Manik are Malays,
and hence legally liable Moslems.



- 37 -
both Krian and Sungei Manik according to repeated independent MOA surveys.
Because of the subsistence allowance, zakat payments are slightly progres-
sive. Average annual payments are valued at M$196 (US$81) per 1 ha farm in
Krian and M$310 (US$129) per 2 ha farm in Sungei Manik, and are projected to
rise to M$342 (US$143) and M$578 (US$241) respectively at full project
development.
6.08      At present the total annual family income generated by the model
1 ha farm in Krian is M$2,484 (US$1,035), and for the 2 ha farm in Sungei
Manik is M$2,749 (US$1,145). These family incomes, which include incomes
from crops other than padi and off-farm work, are approximately equal to a
per capita income of US$200/annum. The range of per capita incomes derived
from the various sizes of farms is relatively narrow, from the equivalent of
US$148 for the 1 ha farm in Sungei Manik to US$244 for the 1.5 ha farm in
Krian. These figures should be compared with the estimated national relative
poverty line (critical consumption level) of about US$390,/1 the estimated
absolute poverty line of US$215, and the national per capita income of
about US$860. Approximately 70% of project beneficiary families subsist
on total incomes below the absolute poverty line, while nearly 100% live
in relative poverty, placing the subproject areas among the poorest padi
areas on Peninsular Malaysia's west coast. By full project development
family income on the Krian 1 ha farm would rise to M$3,321 (US$1,384) and
on the Sungei Manik 2 ha farm to M$4,259 (US$1,775), equivalent to per
capita incomes of US$261 and US$317 respectively in current prices.
Implementation of the project would lift the bulk of the very poor in the
subproject areas (14,000 families) out of absolute poverty, leaving but
16% of the beneficiary population in that status. At full project deve-
lopment, no more than 5% of the beneficiaries would earn incomes above the
relative poverty line, entirely restricted to farmers operating over 2 ha
of padi. Given the typically small landholdings, this represents the most
cost-effective means of dealing with the hard-core poverty problem in the
subproject areas (at an investment cost of US$2,067/family), as well as
the maximum impact attainable through agricultural intensification conso-
nant with the achievement of reasonable economic rates of return. The
project would provide reasonably large proportional increases in income
(averaging over 36%) to two large and poor communities, while ensuring a
sufficient period of time for the planning and initiation of land settlement,
industrialization, and other development programs in Perak.
Project Charges
6.09      Given the extremely low incomes of the padi farmers in the
subproject areas (para. 6.08), general Malaysian Government policy would
require no special taxation of project beneficiaries to recover project
costs. Zakat payments, however, are an integral part of traditional Malay
culture, which remains an especially strong force in the padi-farming
areas, and they can be expected to continue regardless of general tax
/1 Equivalent to the total personal income tax deductions for a family of
five, divided by five.



- 38 -
policy. Incremental zakat payments are derived for each of the six farm
models in Annex 3, Table 7, and are related to both the project rent (net
benefit) and annualized project cost applicable to the various models.
The rent recovery indices vary from 22% to 29%, averaging 24% for the
entire project. The cost recovery indices vary from 17% to 27%, averaging
26% for all project beneficiaries. Averaging over all project beneficiaries,
zakat payments would rise from a present level of about US$80/ha by about
US$60/ha, far in excess of projected incremental O&M costs of US$22/ha, and
would make a substantial contribution to capital cost recovery. It should be
noted, however, that O&M of irrigation facilities in Malaysia are totally
divorced from collections of either land-based irrigation charges or zakat
payments; that irrigation 0&M is financed out of general revenues supported
by a highly efficient and generally progressive tax system, and that the
level of O&M is not constrained by a shortage of funds. In view of these
factors and the level of farm incomes, the present structure and level of
charges are considered acceptable. Assurances were obtained that the Perak
and Penang State Governments would continue to collect irrigation charges
whose level would be determined taking into account O&M and capital costs,
incentives to farmers, farmers' capacity to pay, and other taxes and charges
imposed upon them, and that the Government would exchange views with the Bank
from time to time on the level of those charges.
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISK
7.01      By providing improved water control, reliable irrigation supplies
and integrated agricultural extension services, the proposed project would
increase cropping intensity, yields and production on 30,060 ha in the Krian
and Sungei Manik project areas. Some 24,000 farm families, or 130,000 people,
would benefit directly from the project. In addition to increasing produc-
tivity in the two established, densely populated irrigation schemes and
thereby raising farm incomes, the project would contribute toward meeting the
Government's goal of self-sufficiency in rice. The incremental annual
production of 78,000 tons of padi at full project development would result
in net annual foreign exchange savings of about US$15 million. In the Krian
and Sungei Manik subproject areas, mechanization is expected to increase as
drainage facilities are improved under the project (para. 5.10). This would
reduce the labor requirement per cropped ha, but due to the increase in
cropping intensity mechanization would create some 600,000 man-days (2,500
man-years) of additional employment per annum (Annex 3, Table 8).
7.02      Benefits.  Expected future yields and production with and without
the project are discussed in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 discusses the economic and
financial farm-gate prices for inputs and outputs, based on actual farm-gate
prices and the Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department's projections
to 1985. Production costs are given in Annex 3 for six different farm types,
characterized by location, size, availability of labor and capacity for
mechanization. Figure 3.1 shows the proposed cropping calendar. Annex 4
summarizes the foregoing information and gives the expected benefits at full
agricultural development for both project areas.



- 39 -
7.03      Foreign Exchange.  Calculations based on data for the three-year
period 1974-76 indicate that the standard conversion factor is 1.00. There-
fore, the freely fluctuating market exchange rate, averaging M$2.40 to
US$1.00 at the time of appraisal, was used.
7.04      Farm Labor.  The 20,500 families in Krian each have an average of
two full-time farm workers. On the basis of 20 days per worker per month,
the total labor supply is now about 820,000 man-days per month and 9.8 mil-
lion man-days per year. The highest present monthly labor requirements
in Krian occur during August/September and February/March, when the main and
off-season cropping schedules overlap and about 480,000 man-days per month
are required. Under present conditions, peak demand periods vary from year
to year depending on seasonal weather conditions. With the present cropping
intensity, labor shortage is not a problem. Survey results indicate that 87%
of the labor requirement is met by family labor or by neighbors on a work
exchange basis and 13% by hired labor. In the future with the project, the
number of man-days per ha per crop would be reduced from 84 to 81. With the
introduction of staggered cropping schedules under the project (Figure 3.1),
the annual labor demand of 3.6 million man-days would be more evenly dis-
tributed throughout the year and peak monthly demands would not exceed
520,000 man-days. There would be adequate labor in the area for the padi
crops and some labor would continue to seek off-farm employment on estates.
Further details of labor supply and demand are presented in Annex 3.
7.05      The 3,600 families of Sungei Manik can supply about 144,000 man-
days per month or 1.7 million man-days per year. Peak demands of about
115,000 man-days per month occur in February and August. As in Krian, under
present conditions peak demand periods vary depending on the onset of the wet
season. In the future with the project, the degree of mechanization would
increase and the number of man-days per ha per crop would be reduced from 84
to 78. The total annual labor demand of 1.0 million man-days would be spread
more evenly and peak demands would not exceed 120,000 man-days in any month.
Adequate labor would be available for the staggered cropping schedules and
for the increased cropping intensity under the project.
7.06      Project Costs.  Total investment cost (including physical contin-
gencies, but excluding price contingencies) expressed in mid-1978 prices is
US$49.6 million. This consists of civil works (US$46.8 million), equipment
and vehicles (US$2.4 million) and consultants (US$0.4 million). Land acqui-
sition costs were excluded since the net padi area was reduced when calculat-
ing the projected benefits and the discounted value of the land taken out of
production should approximate its economic value. The cost of the Muda Dam
study has also been excluded in the economic analysis as these dams have no
bearing on the present project. The annual incremental cost of O&M and
agricultural services would be US$22/ha and US$12/ha, respectively, at
full development.
7.07      Development Period.  According to the project implementation sched-
ules, all works would be completed by 1982 in Sungei Manik (Figure 3.3) and
by 1983 in Krian (Figure 3.2). Full agricultural development would be
reached in both project areas by 1987.



- 40 -
7.08      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over a 25-year evaluation period, the economic
rate of return is 21% for Krian and 16% for Sungei Manik, or 20% for the
combined project areas. Assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, the
economic net present value (NPV) is M$83.3 (US$34.7) million.
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. In
carrying out the sensitivity analysis, two measures were developed for each
variable tested - the crossover value and the elasticity. The crossover
value is the value of the variable tested for which NPV discounted at 10% is
zero and is a measure of how far the variable can differ from its most likely
value before the project becomes economically unacceptable. The crossover
value may also be interpreted as the value of the variable tested, beyond
which the economic rate of return would be below 10%. The elasticity is
defined as the percentage change in NPV, discounted at 10%, with respect to a
1% change in the variable tested. It is a measure of the rate of change of
NPV for any change of variable, at the most likely value of that variable./l
7.10      The numerical results for both project areas are presented in
Annex 4, Table 4. The results are most sensitive to variations in yields
and cropping intensity. These variables would, therefore, be the focus
of project management and Bank supervision missions. The results are also
fairly sensitive to the assumptions made about future world market prices,
which would be outside the control of the project. Because the economic
rate of return for Sungei Manik is closer to the cut-off value of 10%, it
could not withstand as large a variation in the values of project parameters
as could Krian. The likelihood of these critical variations is discussed
below.
(a) Project Yields and Cropping Intensity. These two variables are
highly interrelated and the achievement of both would depend on the
wider adoption of high yielding padi varieties with a growing
season of less than 140 days. Even with regard to the variable
with the greatest impact, yields, the crossover values for Krian
represent a 42% shortfall from expected yield increments and those
for Sungei Manik represent a 36% shortfall, neither of which is
considered likely. In a Muda pilot area, with improved extension
services and tertiary development, yields of 4.6 ton/ha are being
obtained in the main season. In the better drained and irrigated
parts of Krian and Sungei Manik, as well as in many other irrigation
schemes on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia, farmers already
routinely grow two padi crops per year. Therefore, there should be
no difficulty in obtaining the estimated production increases in
the project areas where tertiary development and integrated agricul-
tural service would be provided simultaneously.
/1 The elasticity generally changes for movements along the NPV-variable
curve.



- 41 -
(b) World Market Price of Rice. The results are less sensitive to
changes in price than to changes in yield or cropping intensity.
The Bank's commodity analysts have taken the latest available infor-
mation on world population, income, technology and planned invest-
men.  into account in deriving demand and supply relationships and
price forecasts.
(c) Construction Costs. The results are not sensitive to increases
in construction costs, which would have to rise by 60% in Sungei
Manik and more than 100% in Krian before the NPV falls to zero.
Experience with other projects in Malaysia has shown that cost
overruns of this magnitude are unlikely to occur.
(d) Development Period. The results are not very sensitive to this
variable. Although other projects in Malaysia have experienced one
or two year delays in implementation, it is highly unlikely that
implementation would lag behind by as much as five years. The
Perak DID, the implementing agency, is one of DID's strongest state
offices. Construction is already under way and designs are com-
pleted about one year in advance of construction. Based on exper-
ience with the Muda project, once works are completed and support
services are activated, farmer response will be rapid.
7.11      Risk.  The major risk associated with achieving the projected
benefits involves the uncertainties associated with adoption by masses of
small farmers of high-yielding padi varieties with a growing season of 140
days or less. This change, which has already occurred in the better-drained
Muda area, is necessary in order to achieve the potential cropping intensity
of 190%. While projected yields are not high compared to other west coast
irrigation areas, their achievement would require substantial increases in
fertilizer use and timely pest and disease prevention measures by the farmers.
The introduction of an improved program of agricultural extension and support-
ing services (paras. 4.06-4.12), which would reach the great majority of the
farmers, is thus vital for project success. The implementing agencies (DOA,
DID, FOA, and BPM) have already begun to organize the field extension system
in a pilot area in Krian, in anticipation of expanding the system through-
out the subproject areas in step with the improvements in infrastructure.
The proposed integrated agricultural services program has already been
initiated with considerable success under the North Kelantan Rural Development
Project (Loan 1294-MA), providing a training ground for Perak staff and more
importantly a demonstration that with sufficient will, enthusiasm, and
organizational leadership, the training and visit system is feasible in
Malaysia. The effective implementation of that system, supported by effective
credit and input supply programs, should provide the farmers with both the
required guidance and the required inputs to produce two high-yielding padi
crops per year.
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following major points:



- 42 -
(a)  all local costs would be borne by GOM throughout the imple-
mentation period of the project; activities such as operation
and maintenance of completed works and agricultural extension
would thereafter be financed through normal GOM procedures as
necessary (para. 3.27);
(b)  the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for
the project; these would be collated by the Project Coordinator,
audited by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and forwarded to
the Bank within nine months of the close of each year (para. 3.32);
(c)  the Project Coordinator would prepare annual statements of agri-
cultural credit requirements to be submitted to BPM, FOA, and the
Bank not later than three months prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year; and GOM would thereafter ensure that an adequate
amount of credit would be made available to the project area
(para. 4.04);
(d)  all DID, DOA, FOA, and BPM staff required to implement the project
would be appointed (paras. 4.05, 4.06, 4.11 and 4.13);
(e)  DID would prepare on completion of final design a designer's opera-
tion manual covering major project works (para. 4.05), and Perak
DOA would prepare an agricultural services operations manual as a
guide for field extension staff by September 1, 1979 (para. 4.08);
(f)  engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank would be engaged as
required to assist DID staff in the design and supervision of
project works, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.14); and
(g)  the Perak and Penang State Governments would continue to collect
irrigation charges whose level would be determined taking into account
OSM and capital costs, incentives to farmers, farmers' capacity to
pay, and other taxes and charges imposed upon them, and the Government
would exchange views with the Bank on the level of those charges (para.
6.09).
8.02      The appointment of a suitably qualified Project Coordinator
(para. 4.01), and the establishment of a project Steering Committee
(para. 4.02), would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
8.03      With the above assurances the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$26.5 million, with a 17-year maturity and a grace period of 4 years.
The borrower would be Malaysia.



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Water Requirement - Krian
Jan         Feb         Mar         Apr       May      Jun          Jul          Aug        Sept       Oct       Nov        Dec       Total
---------------------------------------------------------- (Inches/month) -------------------------------------------------
Average Evaporation /a           5.55        5.63        6.14          5.94      6.18    6.10         6.10       6.34        6.06        5.94      5.51         5.31      70.80
Cropping Pattern No. I
Crop coefficient (kc)/b           -    1.0 x 1/2       1.00         1.02      1.15  1.0 x 1/2          -     1.0 x 1/2   1.00          1.02      1.15    1.0 x 1/2          -
Land preparation rqmnt.        8.10        8.10           -             -         -        -       8.25       8.40            -           -          -           -      32.79
Consumptive use                   -        2.82        6.14         6.03      7.12    3.05             -      3.17         6.06        6.06      6.34         2.66     49.45
Percolation                       -        1.05        2.10         2.10      2.10    1.05             -       1.05        2.10        2.10      2.10         1.05      16.80
Effective rainfall /c          0.95        0.87        3.09         1.71      1.50    0.17         0.77       0.97         2.78        6.51      5.23         2.94      27.49
Net water requirement          7.15       11.10        5.15         6.42      7.72    3.93         7.48      11.59         5.38        1.65      3.21         0.77      71.55
Diversion requirement         10.21       15.86        7.35         9.17    11.03    5.61         10.69      16.56         7.69        2.36      4.59         1.10    102.22
Cropping Pattern No. 2
Crop coefficient (kc)       1.0 x 1/2         -    1.0 x 1/2        1.00      1.02    1.15    1.0 x 1/2           -    1.0 x 1/2       1.00      1.02         1.15          -
Land preparation rqmnt.           -        8.10        8.25             -         -        -           -       8.34        8.25           -          -           -      32.94
Consumptive use                2.78           -        3.07         5.94      6.30    7.02         3.05           -        3.03        5.94      5.62         6.10      48.85
Percolation                    1.05           -        1.05         2.10      2.10    2.10          1.05          -        1.05        2.10      2.10         2.10      16.80
Effective rainfall             0.95        0.87        3.09         1.71      1.50    0.17         0.77        0.97        2.78        6.51      5.23         2.94      27.49
Net water requirement          2.88        7.23        9.28         6.33      6.90    8.95         3.33        7.37        9.55        1.53      2.49         5.26      71.10
Diversion requirement          4.11       10.33       13.26         9.04      9.86   12.79         4.78       10.53       13.64        2.19      3.56         7.51    101.57
Cropping Pattern No. 3
Crop coefficient  kc)          1.15      1.0 x 1/2        -      1.0 x 1/2   1.00    1.02           1.15    1.0 x 1/2         -    1.0 x 1/2   1.00           1.02          -
Land preparation rqmnt.           -           -        8.25         8.15          -        -           -          -        8.25        8.15          -           -      32.80
Consumptive use               6.38         2.82           -         2.97      6.18    6.22         7.02        3.17           -        2.97      5.51         5.42      49.66
Percolation                    2.10        1.05           -         1.05      2.10    2.10         2.10        1.05           -        1.05       2.10        2.10      16.80
Effective rainfall             0.95        0.87        3.09         1.71      1.50    0.17         0.77        0.97        2.78        6.51      5.23         2.94      27.49
Net water requirement          7.54        4.00        5.16        10.46      6.78    8.15         8.35        3.25        5.47        5.66       2.38        4.58      70.78
Diversion requirement         10.77        5.71        7.37        14.94      9.69   11.64        11.93       4.64         7.81        8.09      3.40         6.54    102.53
/a Computed using Hargreaves method (1974), DID Water Resources Publication No. 5
/b Based on studies by Van der Goor and Zijlstra (1968) in Malaysia and confirmed by FAO Publication No. 24 for rice in humid tropical climate having
relatively low wind velocities.
/c  Values will be exceeded in 9 out of 10 years, based on 16 years of record.
0-Z
a X



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Water Demand - Krian
Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr     May      Jun      Jul      Aug     Sept    Oct       Nov    Dec
-------------------------------------  ('000 acre feet)  ------------------------------------
Cropping Pattern No. 1 (24,666 acs)
Diversion requirement                      20.99   32.60   15.11   18.85   22.67   11.53   21.97   34.04   15.81    4.85    9.43   2.26
Cropping Pattern No. 1 822,483 acs)
Diversion requirement                       7.70   19.35   24.84   16.94   18.47   23.96    8.96   19.73   25.56    4.10    6.67  14.07
Cropping Pattern No. 2 (22,483 acs)
Diversion requirement                      10.92    5.79    7.47   15.15    9.82   11.80   12.10    4.70    7.92    8.20    3.45   6.63
Total crop water diversion requirement    39.61   57.74   47.43   50.94   50.96   47.29   43.03   58.47   49.29   17.15   19.55  22.96
Domestic & industrial demand in block 3    3.6         3.6      3.6     3.6      3.6      3.6     3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6    3.6
Domestic demand in blocks I & 2 /a            6.0      6.0        -       -        -      6.0     6.0      6.0        -        -        -    6.0
Gross water diversion demand
('000 ac ft)                              49.21   67.34   51.02   54.54   54.56   56.89   52.63   68.07/b 52.89   20.75   23.15  32.56
(MCM)                                     60.7    83.1    62.9    67.3    67.3    70.2    64.9    84.0    65.2    25.6    28.6   40.2
/a 200 ac ft/day supplied during drainage, harvest and fallow seasons.
/b  Maximum demand equals 68,070 ac ft/month (1,134.5 cusecs, 83.9 MCM).
I- |K
mx



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Water Requirement - Sungei Manik
Jan         Feb         Mar         Apr       May      Jun           Jul          Aug        Sept       Oct       Nov        Dec        Total
-----------------------------------------------------  (inches/month)  -----------------------------------__________________
Average Evaporation /a           6.18        5.87        6.97          6.34      6.38    6.18         6.34        6.69        6.54        6.49       5.75        5.55     111.11
Cropping Pattern No. 1
Crop coefficient (kc)/b           -    1.0 x 1/2       1.00          1.02      1.15  1.0 x 1/2         -      1.0 x 1/2   1.00          1.02      1.15    1.0 x 1/2           -
Land preparation rqmnt.        8.76        8.84            -            -         -        -        8.81       8.89            -            -         -           -      35.30
Consumptive use                   -        2.94        6.97          6.46      7.34    3.09            -       3.35         6.54        6.62      6.61         2.78      52.70
Percolation                       -        1.95        3.90          3.90      3.90     1.95           -       1.95         3.90        3.90      3.90         3.90      33.15
Effective rainfall /c          3.27        2.71        3.03          7.48      0.71    2.50         0.44       1.27         1.48        6.72      6.12         4.17      39.90
Net water requirement          5.49       11.02        7.84          2.88    10.53    2.54          8.37      12.92         8.96        3.80       4.39        2.51      81.25
Diversion requirement          9.15       18.36       13.07          4.80    17.55    4.23         13.95      21.53        14.93        6.33       7.32        4.18     135.40
Cropping Pattern No. 2
Crop coefficient (kc)        1.0 x 1/2        -    1.0 x 1/2         1.00      1.02    1.15    1.0 x 1/2           -    1.0 x 1/2       1.00       1.02        1.15           -
Land preparation rqmnt.           -        8.84        8.97             -         -        -           -       8.89         8.93            -         -           -      35.63
Consumptive use                3.09           -        3.49          6.34      6.51    7.12         3.17           -        3.27        6.49       5.87        6.38      51.73
Percolation                    3.90           -        1.95          3.90      3.90    3.90         1.95           -        1.95        3.90      3.90         3.90      33.15
Effective rainfall             3.27        2.71        3.03          7.48      0.71    2.50         0.44       1.27         1.48        6.72       6.12        4.17      39.90
Net water requirement          3.72        6.13       11.38          2.76      9.70    8.52         4.68        7.62       12.67        3.67       3.65        6.11      80.61
Diversion requirement          6.20       10.22       18.97          4.60     16.17   14.20         7.80      12.70        21.12        6.12       6.08       10.18     134.36
Cropping Pattern No. 3
Crop coefficient (kc)          1.15      1.0 x 1/2         -     1.0 x 1/2   1.00    1.02           1.15    1.0 x 1/2          -    1.0 x 1/2   1.00           1.02           -
Land preparation rqmnt.           -           -        8.98          8.87         -        -           -           -        8.93        8.84          -            -      35.61
Consumptive use                7.12        2.94           -          3.17      6.38    6.30         7.29       3.35            -        3.25       5.75        5.66      51.21
Percolation                    3.90        3.90           -          1.95      3.90    3.90         3.90       1.95            -        1.95       3.90        3.90      33.15
Effective rainfall             3.27        2.71        3.03          7.48      0.71   12.50         0.44        1.27        1.48        6.72       6.12        4.17      39.90
Net water requirement          7.75        4.13        5.94          6.51      9.57    7.70        10.75       4.03         7.45         7.27      3.53        5.29       80.02
Diversion requirement         12.92        6.88        9.90         10.85    15.95   12.83         17.92       6.72        12.42       12.12       5.88        8.98    133.37
/a  Computed using Hargreaves method (1974), DID Water Resources Publication No. 5
/b  Based on studies by Van der Goor and Zijlstra (1968) in Malaysia and confirmed by FAO Publication No. 24 for rice in humid tropical
climate having relatively low wind velocities.
jc Values will be exceeded in 9 out of 10 years, based on 16 years of record.
m M
W -



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Water Demand - Sungei Manik
Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr      May      Jun      Jul      Aug      Sept    Oct       Nov    Dec
- -----------   ----------------- ---  ('000 acre feet)  - ---- - --- --------
Cropping Pattern No. 1 (5,756 acs)
Diversion requirement                                 4.39    8.81    6.27    2.30    8.42    2.03    6.69   10.33            7.16    3.04    3.51   2.00
Cropping Pattern No. 2 (822,483 acs)
Diversion requirement including
the Air Deras area (3,337 acs)                       1.72   2.84    5.28    1.28    4.50    3.95    2.17    3.53    5.87    1.70    1.69   2.83
Diversion requirement excluding
the Air Deras area (2,683 acs)                       1.38   2.28    4.25    1.03    3.62    3.18    1.74    2.84    4.72    1.36    1.36   2.36
Cropping Pattern No. 3 (7,104 acs)
Diversion requirement                                  7.65   4.07    5.86    6.42    9.44    7.60   10.60    3.98    7.35    7.18    3.48   5.32
Gross water diversion demand (with Air Deras)
('000 acre ft)                                        13.76  15.72   17.41   10.00   22.36   13.58   19.46   17.84   20.38   11.92   12.34  10.15
(MCM)                                                 17.0   19.4    21.4    12.3    27.6    16.8    24.0    22.0    25.1            14.7     15.2   12.5
Gross water diversion demand (without Air Deras)
('000 acre ft)                                        13.42  15.16   16.38    9.75   21.48   12.81   19.03   17.15   19.23   11.58    8.35   9.68
(MCM)                                                 16.6   18.7    20.2    12.0    26.5    15.8    23.5    21.2    23.7    14.3    10.3   11.9
90% exceedance flow of Sg Batang Padang
('000 acre ft)                                      38.74  27.72   27.65   35.89   31.46   32.69   23.33   30.53   33.05   27.94   55.47  46.69
(MCM)                                               47.8   34.2    34.1    44.3    38.8    40.3    28.8    37.7    40.8    34.5    68.4   57.6
a, -
> 



ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNCEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
DID
Item                                                Krian /a   S. Manik   Total    DOA          FOA      Total      Total
------------------------- (M$ '000) --------- (M$'000) (US$'000)
Irrigation, Drainage and Roads
Land acquisition                                    8,188      1,062       9,250
Irrigation:  headworks improvement                    500      1,000       1,500
main canal and structures             3,366        390      3,756
secondary canals and structures  22,500          3,213    25,713
tertiary canals and structures   12,790          7,903    20,693
Drainage:  earthworks                               3,856         700     4,556
structures, pumps and pipes             6,355      2,288      8,643
River and coastal bunds                             1,333         100      1,433
Roads, structures, bridges and bridle paths    5,949           4,474     10,423
Subtotal                                   64,837    21,130    85,967                         85,967    35,819
Unit cost M$/ha                             2,759       3,221      2,860
Buildings
Land acquisition                                                                       65      600
Site development and services /b                                                      410      250
Construction, extension and
rehabilitation offices                              100        100        200         -     668
Construction stores, workshops,
drying floors                                       500           -        500      132     807
Construction staff housing                          1,260         300      1,560      680   1,100
Subtotal                                                          2,260   1,287   3,425    6,972          2,905
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                                                                     755      370      331
Mobile equipment (tractors, draglines, etc.)                               1,492      137      948
Workshop equipment and tools                                                 609       10       10
Crop protection equipment                                                              80       10
Office and survey equipment                                                  225       20       10
Laboratory equipment and extension aids                                                40
Furniture                                                                     40       85      125
Subtotal                                                           3,121      742   1,434    5,297        2,207
Engineering and Supervision
Construction design                                   647         155        802
Construction supervision                            2,697       1,435      4,132
Subtotal                                   3,344      1,590      4,934                        4,934      2,056
Consultants
Design and specifications (270 man-months)                                   520                         520        217
Training
Degree courses                                                                25       50       50
Study tours                                                                  150      100       25
Subtotal                                                            175      150       75       400        167
Muda Dams Study                                                              1,200                       1,200         500
Total base cost                                                                             105,290    43,871
Physical Contingencies
Irrigation, drainage and roads (15%)                                      12,895
Buildings (10%)                                                              226      129      343
Vehicles and equipment (10%)                                                 312       74      143
Subtotal                                                          13,433      203      486   14,122       5,884
Price Contingencies
Expected price increases (Annex 1, Table 3)                                                           24,982    10,410
Grand total                                                                                  144,394    60,165
/a Some M$1.437 million of civil works were executed in 1977 and are not included in cost estimates.
/b Site development and services for DID buildings is included in construction costs.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates of DID Project Works in Krian
Unit
cost       Cost
Quantity   Unit   -(M$'000)--
Land acquisition                               818.8    ha      10,000    8,188
Subtotal                                                 8,188
Irrigation
Improvement to main diversion works              -    L.S /a               500
Main canal
Earthworks                              416,000    cu m       6.54    2,721
Structures (regulators, syphons and
control modifications & additions)           13    No       49,615       645
Subtotal                                                 3,866
Secondary canal
Earthworks                            2,127,000    cu m       7.19   15,300
Turnouts to secondary canals                 105    No      20,950    2,200
Regulators along secondary canals           116    No       20,000    2,320
Syphons along secondary canals               54    No       30,000    1,620
End controls along secondary canals         106    No       10,000    1,060
Subtotal                                                22,500
Tertiary canal
Earthworks                              141,700    cu m       7.19    1,019
Canal lining - concrete                    12.8    km        44,530      570
- GRP                       275.1    km       29,700   8,170
Turnout to tertiary canals                  449    No         3,000   1,347
Pump turnout to tertiary canals               9    No       40,000      360
End control along tertiary canals           472    No         1,000     472
Farm turnouts - gated piped offtakes   5,350    No              100     535
- syphons                  6,850    No            20     137
Quaternary ditches                       91,750    cu m        1.96      180
Subtotal                                                12.790
Drainage
Earthworks for main & secondary
drains                                2,521,400    cu m       1.45    3,656
Field ditches                             102,000    cu m       1.96       200
Outlet gates                                    40    No      77,000    3,080
Syphons/culverts                               53    No       35,000    1,855
Drainage controls                               24    No      20,000       480
Pump stations                                    2    No    200,000       400
Field drainage pipes                       18,000    No           30      540
Subtotal                                                10,211
River & Coastal Bund Improvements
Earthworks                                133,000    cu m       1.00       133
Rock bund                                  26,200    cu m    45.80    1,200
Subtotal                                                 1.333
Roads and Bridges
Formation & laterite surfacing of
link roads                              194,500    cu m      7.85    1,527
9-in thick laterite surfacing of
farm roads                              225,700    cu m       7.85    1,772
Bridges and culvert crossings                 530    No        5,000    2,650
Subtotal                                                 5,949
Total                                                   64.837
/a Lump sum.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
MALAYSIA
KRIAN - SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates of DID Project Works in Sungei Manik
Unit
cost       Cost
Quantity   Unit   --(M$'000) --
Land acquisition                               96.55    ha       11,000    1,062
Subtotal                                                 1,062
Irrigation
Improvement to main diversion works                  L S /a              1,000
Main canal
Earthworks                               50,000    cu m       3.80       190
Improvements to structures                     4    No      50,000       200
Subtotal                                                 1,390
Secondary canal                           250,000    cu m    10.44    2,610
Earthworks
Canal lining - concrete                    3.68    km       37,500       138
Regulators along secondary canals             43    No      10,000       430
Syphons along secondary canals                 1    No      30,000        30
End controls along secondary canals            I    No       5,000         5
Subtotal                                                 3,213
Tertiary canal
Earthworks                              346,000    cu m    10.44    3,610
Canal lining - GRP                         49.6    km        72,500   3,596
Turnouts to tertiary canals                  112    No        4,000      448
End controls along tertiary canals            79    No        1,000       79
Syphons/culverts                               2    No       15,000       30
Farm turnouts - gated pipe offtakes       1,300    No           100      130
- syphons                    500    No            20       10
Subtotal                                                7,903
Drainage
Earthworks on main & secondary drains  700,000    cu m           1.00      700
Drainage controls                               10    No       10,000      100
Outlet gates                                     6    No      200,000   1,200
End controls                                   137    No        5,000      685
Bridge/culvert/syphon crossings                  3    No       70,000      210
Field drainage pipes                        3,100    No            30       93
Subtotal                                                 2,988
Perimeter Bund Improvements
Earthwork                                  26,300    cu m        3.80      100
Roads and Bridges
9 in laterite surfacing                    93,600    cu m       13.38   1,252
Precast concrete slab bridle paths           98.4    km          6,250    615
Bridges/culvert crossings                      750    No         3,300  2,475
Lay byes                                       329    No           400    132
Subtotal                                                 4,474
Total                                                   21,130
/a Lump sum.



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle and Equipment List /a
DID          DOA        FOA      Total      Unit price    Total cost
Item                               -No. or M$'000 (lump sum)-        number     M$'000          M$ '000
Station wagon                                3                                   3         20             60
4-Wheel drive vehicle                       17          10           1          28         25            700
Truck (6-ton)                                            2           3           5         30            150
Truck with hydraulic crane                   3                                   3         40            120
Dump truck (4-cubic yard)                    3                                   3         35            105
Minibus                                      1                                   1         45             45
Mobile units (extension)                                 2                       2         30             60
Pick-up truck                                                       12          12         18            216
Tractor and trailer                          6           1           6          13         27            351
Tractor (pedestrian)                                     3         150         153          5            765
Motorcycle                                              10          18          28          2             56
Generator                                                1                       1         15             15
Dragline (3/4 cubic yard)                    2                                   2        150            300
Dragline (3/8 cubic yard)                    4                                   4        100            400
Grader                                       2                                   2         80            160
Back hoe                                     3                                   3         40            120
Roller (vibrating)                           2                                   2         40             80
Mobile pump (5 cusec)                        4                                   4         15             60
Mobile pump (3 cusec)                        9                                   9         10             90
Mobile workshop                              2                                   2         60            120
Workshop equipment                    $  434                                                             434
Office and survey equipment           $  225        $ 20        $   10                                   255
Workshop tools                        $  175        $ 10        $   10                                   195
Farm machinery                                      $ 60                                                  60
Crop protection equipment                           $ 80        $   10                                    90
Laboratory equipment                                $ 20                                                  20
Extension aids and kits                             $ 20                                                  20
Furniture (offices and quarters)   $   40           $ 85        $  125                                   250
Total                          $3,121        $742        $1,434                                 5,297
(US$2.21 million)
/a  This list is for estimation purposes only and may be changed during project implementation.                          K M



ANNEX 2
Table 5
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983   Total
------------------US$    000
Civil Works
Annual cost /a (US$'000)                   5,013   8,260  10,886  10,700   9,530
Annual inflation rate (%)                     7.5     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
Compounded escalation factor              0.0375  0.1120  0.1910  0.2740  0.3630
Expected price increases (US$'000)            188     925   2,079   2,932   3,459   9,583
Vehicles and Equipment
Annual cost /a (US$'000)                      425     570      667      527      238
Annual inflation rate (%)                     6.5     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
Compounded escalation factor              0.0325  0.0970  0.1630  0.2330  0.3060
Expected price increases (US$'000)             13      54      109      123       72     371
Administration, Consultants Studies and
Training
Annual cost /a (US$'000)                     954      547      573      505     361
Annual inflation rate (%)                     7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
Compounded escalation factor               0.035   0.107   0.185   0.268   0.357
Expected price increases (US$'000)             29      58      106      135      128     456
Total expected price increase (US$'000)         230   1,037   2,294   3,190   3,658  10,410
/a  These figures include physical contingencies, and are based on the rate of
build-up in Annex 2, Table 7.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs
1979   1980   1981    1982       1983      1984       1985
Krian /a
DID                         -   25.2  122.7    362.6    653.6    944.7  1,179.0
DOA                     109.6  187.2  259.6    287.3    293.5    293.5    293.5
FOA                     103.8  149.8  190.1    218.4    230.6    230.6    230.6
Project headquarters   58.2   61.6   63.6         67.2     69.2      69.2      69.2
Subtotal        271.6  423.8  636.0    935.5  1,246.9  1,538.0  1,772.3
Sungei Manik /a
DID                         -       -   49.7    175.5    315.8    409.7    409.7
DOA                     111.1  174.6  247.0    253.7    260.9    260.9    260.9
FOA                      21.1   50.6   54.0       56.7     58.7      58.7      58.7
Project headquarters   11.1   11.8   12.5         14.0     14.7      14.7      14.7
Subtotal        143.3  237.0  363.2    499.9    650.1    744.0    744.0
Total           414.9  660.8  999.2  1,435.4  1,897.0  2,282.0  2,516.3
/a  Based on Annex 8, Table 2 in reference B.1



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Malaysian fiscal years (calendar years)                                IBRD fiscal years
1979/a  1980      1981     1982      1983    Total        FY79    FY80     FY81      FY82     FY83   FY84   Total
----------- (M$'000) -----------------                    ------------------- (US$'000) ------------------
Irrigation and Drainage Works by DID
Krian                                                  8,429    12,319  14,264  14,913  14,912   64,837    1,174  4,053    5,400   6,033    6,176  4,180  27,016
Sungei Manik                                              213    3,380   6,973   6,339   4,225   21,130              29     528    1,289   2,799    2,300  1,258   8,803
Physical contingencies (15%)                           1,296      2,355    3,186   3,188    2,870   12,895          180     687    1,096    1,328    1,284       798   5,373
Buildings
DID                                                       520       575      415       415      335     2,260        72     224       217      174       162      93       942
DOA                                                       140       377      347       283      140     1,287        19      89       153      118       100      57       536
FOA                                                    1,242        656      786       428      313    3,425        173     436       292      280       160      86    1,427
Physical contingencies (10%)                              190       161      155       113       79       698        27      76        66       57        42      23      291
Vehicles and Equipment
DID                                                       395       674      896       670      486    3,121         55     203       311      342       253     136    1,300
DOA                                                        82       221      259       180        -        742       12      53        97       98        50       -       310
FOA                                                      450        350      300       300       34    1,434         62     175       139      125        88       9      598
Physical contingencies  (10%)                              93       124      145       115       52       529        13      43        55       56        39      14       220
Engineering design and supervision                          849     1,110    1,159    1,032       784    4,934        118      390      469       464      396     217    2,054
Consultants                                                  90       130       145      105        50       520        12      44       56        54       37       14      217
Training                                                     50       100       100      100        50       400         7      28       42        41       36       14      168
Studies                                                   1,200         -         -        -         -    1,200       500        -        -         -        -        -      500
Expected price increases (from Annex 2, Table 5)            552     2,489   5,506    7,656   8,779   24,982             86     448    1,457    2,639    3,354  2,426   10,410
Total proiect cost                             15,791   25,021  34,636  35,837  33,109  144,394   2,539  7,477  11,739  14,608  14,477  9,325  60,165
/a  Some works carried out in 1978 and eligible for retroactive financing.                                                                                                       _
ax 7



ANNEX 2
Table 8
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD fiscal
year and                          Accumulated disbursement
semester                           US$ million equivalent
FY79
2nd                                         0.9
FY80
1st                                         2.2
2nd                                         3.6
FY81
1st                                         5.4
2nd                                         7.8
FY82
1st                                        10.5
2nd                                        13.5
FY83
1st                                        16.6
2nd                                        19.5
FY84
1st                                        22.2
2nd                                        24.8
FY85
1st                                        26.5



ANNEX 2
Table 9
MALAYSIA
KRIAN - SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Estimated
Estimated    foreign
total      exchange      Proposed
cost       component   allocation   Disbursement
Category                              ---------- (US$ million) ----------   --- (%)
1. Civil works
Irrigation, drainage & roads    32.0           15.9
Buildings and facilities           2.6          0.8
34.6         16.7
Price contingencies (part)         8.2          4.0
Subtotal                           42.8         20.7          22.0          52
2. Equipment and vehicles
DID                                1.3          1.2                    100% of foreign
DOA                                0.3          0.3                   expenditures, 100%
FOA                                0.6          0.5                   of local expendi-
tures ex-factory,
2.2         2.0                    or 80% of imported
items procured
Price contingencies (part)         0.4          0.4                   locally.
Subtotal                            2.6          2.4           2.4
3.  Consultants, Study & Training        0.9          0.6           0.9         100
4. Unallocated
Engineering & supervision /a       2.1          0.1
Land acquisition /a                4.1          0.0
Physical contingencies             5.9          2.6
Remaining price contingencies    1.8            0.1
Subtotal                           13.9          2.8           1.2
Total                              60.2         26.5          26.5         (44)
/a No disbursement would be made against these items.



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Engineering Staff Requirements
KRIAN/S. MNAIK                             KRIAN                                 SUNGEI MANIK
Peak staff      Total       Total     Peakstaff        Total       Total       Peak staff      Total       Total
requirement man-months  cost (M$)   requirement  man-months  cost (M$)   requirement  man-months  cost (M$)
I Planning and Design /a
Senior engineer superscale "G"       1          84        203,700
Engineer senior timescale            2          96        211,680
Engineer timescale                   4         192        315,840
Quantity surveyor                    1          84        138,180
Technicians                         35       1,728        941,760
Draughtsmen                         12         576        313,920
II Construction Staff /b
Senior engineer superscale "F"                                               1           72        190,440          -             -              _
Engineer senior timescale                                                    1           48        105,840           1            60      132,300
Engineer timescale                                                          10          540        888,300          5           204       335,580
Quantity surveyor                                                            1           84        138,180          -              -             -
Technical assistant                                                         20        1,080      1,301,400         10           408       491,640
Technicians                                                                 60        3,240      1,765,800         30         1,234       667,080
Clerks                                                                       4          240        130,800          2            120       65,400
Typists                                                                      2          144.        46,800           1            60        19,500
Office boys                                                                  2          144         33,840           1            60        14,100
Drivers                                                                     11          792        209,880           6           300        79,500
Watchmen                                                                     2          144         34,560           2           120        34,560
IMG (Labour)                                                                20        1,152        241,920         16            744      156,240
III Incremental O&M Staff /b
Mechanical engineer                                                          1                                      -
Technical assistant                                                          1                                      _
Technicians                                                                  4                                       2
Clerical staff                                                               -                                      2
Irrigation overseers                                                         2                                      _
Storekeeper                                                                  1
Chargeman                                                                    1                                       1
IMG (Labour)                                                                33                                     15
IV  Consultant Staff                                                                           270        520,000
/a Federal DID staff.
A   Perak DID staff.
o s



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs
Present                                Future without project                          Future with oroject
Family      Hired        Mechanization,        Family      Hired        Mechanization,        Family       Hired        Mechanization,
labor &   & family          hired &            labor &   & family          hired &            labor &   & family           hired &
Inputs/ha                                neighbors   labor          family labor        neighbors   labor          family labor        neighbors    labor          family labor
Cultivation
Method                (M) Krian           55           25               20               50           25               25                20           20               60
S. Manik        60          10               30                50          10                40                -           15                85
Nursery
Floating nurseries (%) Krian              80          20                 -               80           20                -                20          20                 -
S. Manik        40          30                 -               40          25                 -               10            -                 -
Harvest
Mechanical           (M) Krian             -            -                _-                                             -                       -                      20
S. Manik         -           -                 -                -           -                 -                -            -                30
Input
Padi seed                      (kg)       27           27               27               25           25               25                20           20               20
Urea                           (kg)       50          50                60               50           50               60               150          160              175
Compound fertilizer /a         (kg)       50           50               50               50           50               50                75           75              100
MCPA                           (1)         0.5          0.5              0.5              0.5          0.5              0.5               1            1                 1
Carbaryl                       (1)         -            -                -                -            -                -                 1            1                 1
Gamma BHC                      (kg)        3            3                3                5            5                5                10           10               10
Furadan                        (kg)        -            -                -                -            -                -                 5            5                5
Diazinon                       (kg)        -            -                -                -            -                -                              5                5
Warfarin                       (g)         -            -                -              250          250              250               250          250              250
Zinc phosphide                 (g)         -            -                -              100          100              100               200          200              200
Prices                                     (M$)
Padi seed                      (kg)      0.45
Urea                           (kg)      0.50
Compound fertilizer            (kg)      0.45
Gramoxone                      (1)       7.00
Carbaryl (Sevin)               (1)      11.50
Gamma BHC (Dol. granules)   (kg)         1.30
Furadan (3% granules)          (kg)      4.40
Diazinon (Basudin)             (kg)      0.50
Warfarin                       (kg)      3.60
Zinc phosphide                 (kg)     12.80
/a NPK = 15-15-7.5.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U)



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets (Economic and Financial)
(M$/ha) /a
Present                                Future without Proiect                            Future with proiect
A            B               C                  A           B                C                  A            B               C
Family      Hired /b      Mechanization,         Family       Hired       Mechanization,         Family       Hired        Mechanization,
labor &   & family            hired &            labor &   & family           hired &            labor &   & family           hired &
neighbors    labor          family labor         neighbors   labor           family labor        neighbors   labor           family labor
Land Preparation
Spraying                                      3          3                  3                 3          3                  6                  6          6                 6
Mowing and raking                            45        160 (80)             -                45        160 (80)             -                 45        160 (80)
Plowing                                       -          -                150 (150)           -          -                150 (150)            -          -               150 (150)
Bund repair                                   6          6                  9                 6          6                  9                 12         12                 15
Nurseries
Floating nursery                             16         16                  -                16         16                  -                 16          -
Transfer or single nursery                   12         12                 15                12         12                 16                 16         20                 20
Pulling seedlings and transport             12          12                 12                12         12                 16                 16         16                 16
80        100 (50)           100  (80)          80        100 (50)           100  (80)           88        110 (50)           110  (80)
Crop Maintenance
Weeding                                      12         15                 15                12         15                 15                 15         18                 18
Water management                             15         15                 15                15         15                 15                 15         15                 15
Pest and disease control                      6          6                  6                 6          6                  9                 12         12                 15
Harvesting
Cutting                                     80          90 (30)            90  (40)          80         90 (30)            90  (40)          100        100 (50)           210 (100)
Threshing, winnowing and drying             20          20 (10)            20  (10)          20         20 (10)            20  (10)           24         24 (12)             4
Transport                                     8         14                 14                 8         14                 15                  8         10                 10
Inputs
Urea                                         25         25                 30                25         25                 30                 75         80                 88
Compound fertilizer                          23         23                 23                23         23                 23                 34         34                 45
Seeds                                        12         12                 12                11         11                 11                  9          9                  9
Herbicides                                    4           4                 4                 4           4                  4                  7         7                  7
Insecticides                                  4          4                  4                 7          7                  7                 49         49                 49
Rodenticide                                   -          -                  -                 2           2                  2                  4         4                  4
Total cost (economic)                   383        537                522               387         541                538                551       686                791
(financial) /c              68        238                353                72        242                357                 178       375                532
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                             18         15                  6                18          15                 6                 21         21                  7
Nurseries                                    10         10                  8                10          10                 8                 12          9                  9
Transplanting                                20         20                 20                20          20                20                 22         23                 23
Crop maintenance                             11         12                 12                11          12                13                 14         15                 16
Harvesting                                  27          27                 27                27         27                 27                 30         30                  4
Total labor requirements                 86          84                 73               86          84                 74                 99        95                  59
Hired Labor (man-days/ha)                       -         46                 34                 -          46                 34                  -        50                 25
/a Labor at M$3.00/day in slack season and M$4.00/day during transplanting and harvesting.
/b  Cost of hired labor in brackets.
/c  Cost excluding family labor.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Cost Per Farm
Future with-                          Future
Present                              out project                         with project
Cost                                  Cost                                  Cost
% crop    financial   economic/b  % crop    financial   economic    % crop    financial   economic
Area and farm size        budget /a  ------- M$ --------    budget    ------- M$ ---------    budget                ------- M$ ---------
Krian          0.7 ha    95% A           64.60         364         90% A       64.80          348       75% A        133.50         413
5% B         11.90          27         10% B       24.20           54       20% B         75.00         137
5% C        26.60           40
Per ha                             76 50         391                      89.00         402                    234.10          590
Per annum /c                       85.68         438                      99.68         450                    311.35          785
Krian           1.0 ha    80% A          54.40         306         70% A       50.40          271       50% A         89.00          276
15% B         35.70          81         20% B       48.40          108       25% B        93.75          172
5% C         17.65          26         10% C       35.70           54       25% C        133.00         198
Per ha                            107.75         413                     134.50         433                    315.75          646
Per annum                         172.40         661                     215.20         693                    599.93        1,227
Krian           1.5 ha    60% A          40.80         230         50% A       36.00          194       20% A         35.60          110
20% B         47.60         107         20% B       48.40          108       30% B        112.50         206
20% C         70.60         104         30% C      107.10          161       50% C        266.00         396
Per ha                            159.00         441                     191.50         463                    414.10          712
Per annum                         381.60       1,058                     459.60       1,111                  1,180.19       2,029
Sungei Manik  1.0 ha    50% A            34.00         192         50% A       36.00          194       30% A         53.40         165
50% B        119.00         268         45% B      108.90          243       50% B        187.50         343
5% C       17.85          27        20% C       106.40          158
Per ha                            153.00         460                     162.75         464                    347.30          666
Per annum                         221.85         667                     235.99         673                    659.87        1,265
Sungei Manik  2.0 ha    35% A            23.80         134         30% A       21.60          116       20% A         35.60         110
50% B        119.00         268         50% B      121.00          270       40% B        150.00         274
15% C         52.95          78         20% C       71.40          108       40% C        212.80         316
Per ha                            195.75         480                     214.00         494                    398.40          700
Per annum                         567.68       1,392                     620.60       1,433                  1,513.92       2,660
Sungei Manik  2.5 ha    20% A            13.60          77         20% A        14.40          77       10% A         17.80           55
30% B         71.40         161         20% B       48.40          108       20% B         75.00          137
50% C        176.50         261         60% C      214.20          323       70% C        372.40         554
Per ha                            261.50         499                     277.00         508                    465.20          746
Per annum                         947.94       1,809                  1,004.08        1,842                  2,209.61        3,543
/a  From Annex 3, Table 2  A = Labor provided by family and neighbors.
B =Hired and family labor.
C = Mechanization, hired and family labor.
/b  Rounded to nearest M$.
/c  Cropping intensities:  Krian, present & without project, 160%; with project,  190%.
Sungei Manik, present & without project, 145%; with
project, 190%.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets
__ _ ___   __ _ _ ____ _ _________ _ _Present
Subproject                                            Krian                                          Sun=ei Maiik
Farm size (ha) and % of area          0.7 (34%)   _ 1.0 (37%)        1.5 (29%)          1.0 (41%)      2.0 (29E       2.5 (I0Z)
Season                              M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.           M.S.  OS.   M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.
Cropping intensity (1)                 85      75      85     75      85     75          75      75     75      70     80      60
Yield (ton/ha)                        2.5    2.6    2.5    2.6    2.5    2.6            2.3    2.4    2.1    2.2    1.8    2.0
Production (kg)                     1,490  1,370  2,125  1,950  3,190  2,925          1,725  1,800  3,150  3,080  3,600  3,000
Annual farm production (ton)               2.86           4.08           6.12               3.53           6.23            6.60
Domestic consumption /a                    1.17           1.17           1.17               1.45            1.45           1.45
Annual farm sales (ton)              1.69           2.91            4.95               2.08           4.78           5.15
---------------------------------------- (M$) ----------------------------------------
Cash Inflows
Padi sales /b                         823.00       1,417.20       2,410.70              977.60       2,246.60       2,420.50
Credit                                    -              -           524.00                -              -           100.00
Total cash inflow                  823.00       1.417.20       2,934.70              977.60       2,246.60       2,520.50
Cash Outflows
Annual crop production costs
(Annex 3, Table 3)                   85.68         172.40         381.60             221.85         567.68          947.94
Credit repayments /c                     -               -          547.60                 -              -           109.00
Annual Taxes and Water Charges
Irrigation rate /d                    7.77          11.10          16.65                9.99          17.33          22.25
Quit rent /e                          3.50           5.00           7.50                5.00          10.00          12.50
Zakat /f                            113.58         195.57         332.67              134.90         310.03         334.03
Education rate jg                      -              -             2.00                 -             2.00           6.25
Subtotal                           124.85         211.67         358.82             149.89         339.36         375.03
Total cash outflow                 210.53         384.07       1,288.02             371.74         907.04       1,431.97
Cash flow from padi production          612.47        1,033.13      1,646.68              605.86       1,339.56       1,088.53
Nonpadi farm income                       30.00          41.00         52.00               98.00         128.00         158.00
Off-farm income                         840.00         840.00         840.00              600.00         600.00         600.00
Net farm cash flow               1,482.47       1,914.13       2,538.68           1,303.86       2,067.56       1,846.53
Value of domestic padi             569.79         569.79         569.79             681.50         681.50         681.50
Family income                    2,052.26       2,483.92       3,108.47           1,985.36       2,749.06       2,528.03
/a  Average farm family = Krian is 5.3, using 1,170 kg padi/family or 144 kg rice/head.
Average farm family = Sungei Manik is 5.6, using 1,450 kg padi/family or 168 kg rice/head.
/b  Average padi price Krian M$29/picul = M$487/ton.
Average padi price Sungei Manik M$28/picul = M$470/ton.
/c  Interest on padi credit is 4.25% per 6 months.
/d  Irrigation rates Class I soil   = M$11.10/ha
Class II soil = M$7.40/ha
Class III soil = M$2.50/ha.
/e  Quit rent for padi is M$5.00/ha/annum.
/f  Zakat or religious tax for Malay farmers (almost 100% in both areas) is slightly progressive and equals about
10% of gross production.
/g  Education rate of M$2.50/ha for farmers with 2 ha or more.



ANNEX 3
Table 5
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets
Future without project
Subproject                                               Krian                                           Sungei Manik
Farm size (ha) and % of area            0.7 (34%)       1.0 (37%)       1.5 (29%)           1.0 (41%)      2.0 (29%)       2.5 (30%)
Season                                M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.            M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.
Cropping intensity (%)                   85      75      85      75      85     75           75      75      75     70      80      6U
Yield (ton/ha)                          2.7    2.8    2.7    2.8    2.7    2.8              2.5    2.6    2.3    2.4    2.1    2.2
Production (kg)                       1,610  1,470  2,295  2,100  3,440  3,150           1,880  1,950  3,450  3,360  4,200  3,300
Annual farm production (ton)                 3.08           4.40            6.59                3.83            6.81            7.50
Domestic consumption   (ton)                 1.17           1.17            1.17                1.45            1.45            1.45
Annual farm sales (ton)                1.91            3.23           5.42                 2.38           5.36            6.05
---------------------------------------- (M$) ----------------------------------------
Cash Inflows
Padi sales                              930.00        1,573.00       2,639.50          1,118.60        2,519.20       2,843.50
Credit                                     -            100.00         700.00                -           200.00          700.00
Total cash inflow                    930.00       1,673.00        3.339.50          1,118.60       2,719.20        3,543.50
Cash Outflows
Annual crop production costs
(Annex 3, Table 3)                     99.68         215.20          459.60            235.99         620.60        1,004.08
Credit repayments                          -            104.50         731.50               -            209.00          731.50
Annual Taxes and Water Charges
Irrigation rate                         7.77          11.10           16.65              9.99           17.33          22.25
Quit rent                               3.50            5.00           7.50              5.00           10.00          12.50
Zakat                                 125.57         212.36          356.34            152.12          342.61         386.72
Education rate                           -              -              2.00               -              2.00           6.25
Subtotal                             136.84         228.46          382.49            167.11         371.94          427.72
Total cash outflow                   236.52         548.16        1,573.59            403.10       1,201.54        2,163.30
Cash flow from padi production            693.48        1,124.84       1,765.91            715.50        1,517.66       1,380.20
Nonpadi farm income                        30.00           41.00           52.00            98.00          128.00          158.00
Off-farm income                           840.00          840.00         840.00            600.00          600.00         600.00
Net farm cash flow                1,563.48        2,005.84        2,657.91          1,413.50       2,245.66        2,138.20
Value of domestic padi              569.70          569.70          569.70           681.50          681.50          681.50
Family income                     2,133.18        2,575.54       3,227.61          2,095.00        2,927.16       2,819.70



ANNEX 3
Table 6
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets
Future with project
Subproject                                             Krian                                          Sungei Manik
Farm aize (ha) and   of area           0.7 (34%)      1.0 (37%)      1.5 (29%)           1.0 (41%)      2.0 (29%)      2.5 (30%)
Season                              M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.           M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.   M.S.   O.S.
Cropping intensity (%)                 100     90    100       90    100      90         100     90    100       90    100      90
Yield (ton/ha)                         3.6    3.8    3.6    3.8    3.6    3.8            3.1    3.3    3.1    3.3    3.1    3.3
Production (kg)                      2,520  2,390  3,600  3,420  5,400  5,130          3,100  2,970  6,200  5,940  7,750  7,425
Annual farm production (ton)               4.91           7.02           10.53               6.07           12.14          15.18
Domestic consumption   (ton)               1.17           1.17            1.17               1.45            1.45           1.45
Annual farm sales (ton)               3.74           5.85           9.36                4.62          10.69          13.73
- ----_-_---_-------- -------------- M$ ---- ------- ----------------------------
Cash Inflows
Padi sales                           1,821.38       2,848.95       4,558.32           2,171.40        5,024.30       6,453.10
Credit                                 320.00         460.00         900.00              460.00       1,200.00       2,000.00
Total cash inflow                2,141.38       3,308.95        5,458.32           2,631.40       6,224.30        8,453.10
Cash Outflows
Annual crop production costs
(Annex 3, Table 3)                  311.35         599.93        1,180.19             659.87       1,513.92        2,209.61
Credit repayments                      334.40         480.70         940.50              480.70       1,254.00       2,090.00
Annual Taxes and Water Charges
Irrigation rate                        7.77          11.10          16.65                9.99          17.33          22.25
Quit rent                              3.50           5.00           7.50                5.00          10.00          12.50
Zakat                                218.56         341.90         547.00              249.71         577.79         742.11
Education rate                          -              -             2.00                 -             2.00           6.25
Subtotal                           229.83         358.00          573.15             264.70          607.12         783.11
Total cash outflow                 875.58        1,438.63       2,693.84            1,405.27       3,375.04       5,082.72
Cash flow from padi production         1,265.80       1,870.32       2,764.48            1,226.13       2,849.26       3,370.38
Nonpadi farm income                       30.00          41.00           52.00              98.00         128.00          158.00
Off-farm income                          840.00         840.00          840.00             600.00         600.00          600.00
Net farm cash flow               2,135.80        2.751.32       3,656.48           1,924.13        3,577.26       4,128.38
Value of domestic padi             569.70          569.70         569.70             681.50          681.50         681.50
Family income                    2.705.50       3,321.02        4,226.18           2,605.63        4,258.76       4.809.88
Income increase /a                 653.24         837.10        1,117.71             620.27        1,509.70       2,963.35
Income increase /b                 572.32          745.48         998.57             510.63        1,331.60       1,990.18
/a  Difference between family income at full project development and at present.
/b  Difference between family income at full project development and the future without the project.



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Analysis /a
(M$)
Value of                                                                              Rent        Annualized      Cost
Gross value       purchased        Farm cash      Family        Management       Project    Zakat    recovery /d   project          recovery /f
Farm model   of production  -   inputs    -    income    -  labor /b  -  and risk /c  =   rent             payments       (%)         cost /e         (%)
(1)              (2)             (3)           (4)             (5)            (6)         (7)        (8)             (9)          (10)
Krian
0.7 ha            891              211              680          124             136             420          93        22           345            27
1.0 ha          1,276              385              891          149             178            564          130       23            493            26
1.5 ha          1,918              720            1,198          198             240             760         191        25           740            26
Sungei Manik
1.0 ha          1,052              424              628          168             126             334          98        29           573            17
2.0 ha          2,505              893            1,612          334             322             956         235        25         1,146            21
2.5 ha          3,609            1,206            2,403          496             481          1,426          355        25         1,433            25
/a  All figures are incremental.
/b  Valued at M$4/day during transplanting and harvest and M$3/day during other seasons.
/c  Calculated at 20% of incremental income.
/d  Equals column 7 divided by column 6.  It is assumed that farm incomes, project rent, and Zakat payments build up to full development levels
with proportional time streams. Consequently, discounting the flows will not affect the rent recovery ratios.
/e  The average total investment cost (in constant values) allocable to Krian is M$3,442/ha, or M$439/ha per annum amortized over 25 years at
a discount rate of 10%, the recent estimated opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia.  With incremental O&M costs of M$54/ha, the annualized
project cost of Krian is M$493/ha.  The investment cost in Sungei Manik is M$4,128/ha, or M$526/ha per annum, incremental O&M costs would be                           ,z
M$47/ha, and the annualized project cost is M$573/ha.                                                                                                                  X
/f  Equals column 7 divided by column 9.                                                                                                                                   < w



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIX INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirement
('000 man-days)
Average number
Area    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec                 Total    of man-days
(ha)                                                                                                               per ha/crop
A. Krian
Main season
P & FWO                 20,400   286    265         -       -       -       -       -    245    469    286        82      82       1,715
FW                      23,500   134       38       -       -       -       -    145    466    429    235    181    214            1,842
Off season
P & FWO                 18,000      -    216    414    252         72      72    252    234        -       -       -       -       1,512
FW                      21,150   155    475    383    218    185    206    121            34       -       -       -       -       1,777
Subtotal - P & FWO    38,400   286    481    414    252            72      72    252    479    469    286         82      82       3.227            84
- FW          44,650   289    513    383    218    185    206    266    500    429    235    181    214                  3,619            81
B. SunRei Manik
Main season
P & FWO                  4,670    65       61       -       -       -       -       -     56    107       65      19      19         392
FW                       6,560    49       23       -       -       -       -     35      99      99    113       47      48         513
Off season
P & FWO                  4,360      -      52    100       61      17      17     61      57       -       -       -       -         365
FW                       5,900    31       89      88    102       42      43     44      21       -       -       -       -         460
Subtotal - P & FWO       9,030    65    113    100         61      17     17      61    113    107        65      19      19         757            84
-N                       8012,460    80    112  88    102  42   43       79    120      99    113       47      48         973            78
C. Total
P & FWO                 47,430   351    594    514    313          89     89    313    592    576    341    101    101             3,984            84
FW                      57,110   369    625    471    320    227    249    345    620    528    348    228    262                  4,592            80
P   - Present.
FWO - Future without project.
FW - Future with project.
X w



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production Values and Costs - Krian
I
Total      I                                                        Cost            Total
Year     Production   Padi price  Value    Area   Cost/a   production           Production  Padi price  Value         Area (ha)       (M$/ha)/a      productiou         Incremental
(ton)       (MS/ton)  (M$'000)  (ha)  (M$/ha)  cost (M$'000)           (ton)      (M$/ton)  (M$'000)  Before  After  Before  After  cost(M$'000)   benefits (M$'OOO)
WITHOUT PROJECT                                                                     WITH PROJECT
Main       1      51,000           559      28,509   20,400   413          9,425      I 51,375           559      28,719   20,010       450   413    646          8,555              80
season    2       51,125           627      32,055   20,450   415          8,487      | 53,840           627      33,758   18,350   2,310   415    646            9,108           1,082
3      52,275           627      32,776   20,500   417          8,549         57,865          627      36,281   14,510   6,730   417    646           10,398           1,656
4      52,405           627      32,858   20,550   419          8,610      j  63,265          627      39,667    9,850  12,110   419    646           11,950           3,469
5      53,560           627      33,582   20,600   421          8,673      I  69,465          627      43,555    5,190  17,490   421    646           13,484           5,162
6      53,690           627      33,664   20,650   423          8,735      I  74,725          627      46,853    1,490  21,800   423    646           14,713           7,211
7      53,820           627      33,745   20,700   425          8,798      I  77,550          627      48,624             23,500           646        15,181           8,496
8      55,120           627      34,560   20,800   427          8,882         79,900          627      50,097             23,500           646        15,181           9,238
9      55,385           627      34,726   20,900   430          8,987      I 82,250           627      51,571            23,500            646        15,181          10,651
10-25    56,700           627      35,551   21,000   433          9,093      I 84,600           627      53,044             23,500           646        15,181          11,405
Off-       1      46,800           559      26,161   18,000   413          7,434      I 49,125           559      27,461   17,625   1,100   413    646            7,990             744
season    2       46,800           627      29,344   18,000   415          7,470      I 53,105           627      33,297   16,190   3,400   415    646            8,915          2,508
3      47,965           627      30,074   18,100   417          7,548      I 58,370           627      36,598   12,800   7,680   417    646           10,299           3,773
4      48,230           627      30,240   18,200   419          7,626         63,505          627      39,818    8,695  12,510   419    646           11,725           5,479
5      49,410           627      30,980   18,300   421          7,704      I  68,825          627      43,153    4,580  17,040   421    646           12,936           6,941
6      49,680           627      31,149   18,400   423          7,783         71,980          627      45,131     1,275  20,120   423    646          13,537           8,228
7      50,085           627      31,403   18,550   425          7,884         74,025          627      46,414             21,150           646        13,663          9,232
8      51,425           627      32,243   18,700   427          7,985      I  76,140          627      47,740             21,150           646        13,663           9,819
9      51,840           627      32,504   18,850   430          8,106      i  78,255          627      49,066             21,150           646        13,663          11,005
10-25    52,200           627      32,729   19,000   433          8,227      I 80,370           627      50,392             21,150           646        13,663         12,227
/a From medium farm size (1 ha).
lli



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICnLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production Values and Costs - Sungei Manik
Total                                                                    Cost           Total
Year       Production   Padi price  Value    Area   Cost/a   production              Production  Padi price  Value          Area (ha)        (M$/ha) /a   production           Incremental
(ton)        (M$/ton)   (M$'000)  (ha)  (M$/ha)  cost (M$'000)  I    (ton)            (M$/ton)  (M$'000)  Before  After  Before  After  cost(M$'000)   benefits (M$'000)
WITHOUT PROJECT                                                                     WITH PROJECT
Main       1         9,820            559       5,489    4,675   480           2,244       I   9,820           559       5,489    4,675          -   480    700           2,244               0
season    2          9,820            627       6,157    4,675   481           2,249       I   9,820           627       6.157    4,675         -   480    700            2,249               0
3        10,105           627        6,336    4,700   482           2,265       I  10,750          627        6,740    4,075       795   482      700         2,521             148
4        10,160           627        6,370    4,725   483           2,282       I  12,820           627       8,038    2,565   2,810   483    700             3,206             744
5        10,215           627        6,405    4,750   484           2,299          15,585          627        9, 772      880   5,055   484    700            3,965           1,701
6        10,505           627        6,587    4,775   486           2,321       I  18,370          627       11,518              6,560            700         4,592           2,660
7        10,560           627        6,621    4,800   488           2,342       I  19,025          627       11,929              6,560            700         4,592           3,058
8        10,915           627        6,844    4,850   490           2,377          19,680          627       12,339              6,560            700         4,592           3,280
9        11,025           627        6,913    4,900   492           2,411       I 20,335            627      12,750              6,560            700         4,592           3,656
10-25      11,500            627       7,211    5,000   494           2,470       I  20,990           627      13,161              6,560            700          4,592          3,828
Off-       1         9,5Q0            559       5,361    4,360   480           2,093       I   9,590           559       5,361    4,360          -   480    700           2,093               0
season    2          9,680            627       6,069    4,400   481           2,116           9,805           627       6,148    4,180       235   481      700          2,175              20
3        10,015           627        6,279    4,450   482           2,145          11,005           627       6,900    3,355    1,320   482    700            2,531             235
4        10,125           627        6,348    4,500   483           2,174       I  12,865           627       8,066     1,870   3,205   483       700          3,147            745
5        10,240           627        6,420    4,550   484           2,202          15,095           627       9,465       470   5,035   484    700             3,731          1,516
6        10,590           627        6,634    4,600   486           2,236       I  17,125           627      10,737              5,905            700         4,134           2,205
7        10,810           627        6,778    4,700   488           2,294       I  17,715           627      11,107              5,905            700         4,134           2,489
8        11,280           627        7,073    4,800   490           2,352          18,305           627      11,477              5,905            700         4,134           2,622
9        11,515           627        7,220    4,900   492           2,411       I  18,895           627      11,847              5,905            700         4,134           2,904
10-25      12,000            627       7,524    5,000   494           2,470          19,485           627      12,217              5,905            700          4,134          3,029
/a From medium farm size (2 ha).
CD



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits
DID                  DOA               FOA         HQ      Total
Year                Costs   O&M         Costs   O&M       Costs   O&M              Costs      Benefits
--------------------------------- (M$'000) -------------------------------
A. Krian Subproject
1     1979        10,280       -        179    110       1,157   104       58     11,888           824
2     1980        14,810      25        330    187         791   150       62     16,355         3,590
3     1981        16,880    123         366    260         745   190       64     18,628        4,164
4      1982       17,140    363         269    287         477   218       67     18,821        8,948
5      1983       16,570    654         171    294         404   230       70    18,393         12,103
6      1984            -    945           -    295            -   230       -      1,470        15,439
7     1985             -  1,180           -    295           -   230        -      1,705       17,728
8      1986            -  1,180           -    295           -   230        -      1,705        19,057
9     1987             -  1,180           -    295           -   230        -      1,705       21,656
10-25   1988-2003        -  1,180           -    295            -   230       -      1,705        23,632
Economic rate of return:  21%
Net present value at 10% discount rate: M$ 69.8 million
B.  Sungei Manik Subproject
1     1979           811       -         42    111         900    21       11      1,896             0
2     1980         4,003       -        269     175        253    51       12      4,763            20
3      1981        7,895      50        240    247         193    54       13      8,692           383
4     1982         7,161     176        169    254            -    57      14      7,831         1,489
5      1983        5,077    316           -    260            -    60      15      5,728         3,217
6      1984            -    410           -    260            -    60       -        730         4,865
7     1985             -    410           -    260           -    60        -        730         5,547
8      1986            -    410           -    260            -    60       -        730         5,902
9      1987            -    410           -    260            -    60       -        730         6,560
10-25   1988-2003        -    410           -    260            -    60       -         730        6,857
Economic rate of return:  16%
Net present value at 10% discount rate:  M$ 13.5 million



MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
K  R  I  A  N                              S U N G E I   M A_N I K
Appraisal   Crossover        Z     Elasticity    Appraisal   Crossover    %    Elasticity
Variable                             value        value /a    change    /b               value       value La  change    /b
Yields at full development
Main season                        3.6 (t/ha)  3.2 (t/ha)  -11 /c          8.7        3.1 (t/ha)  2.8 (t/ha)  -9 /c   11.2
Off season                         3.8 (t/ha)  3.4 (t/ha)                             3.3 (t/ha)  3.0 (t/ha)
Dry season cropping                 21,150 (ha)  17,980 ha   -16             5.7        5,905 ha    5,445 ha    -8          9.1
(90%)        (74.2%)                                 (90%)        (83%)
World market price of rice
(5% brokens, f.o.b. Bangkok)    US$421/t        US$333/t    -21            4.7       US$421/t   US$368/t       -12        6.9
Development period                   10 yrs       17.6 yrs    +76           -1.3           10 yrs   15.8 yrs    +58        -1.7
Construction costs                  US$33.7 m    US$69.1 m  +105            -0.9       US$11.3 m  US$18.1 m    +60         -1.6
/a  Value of variable tested for which the net present value (discounted at 10%) is zero.
/b  Percentage change in net present value (discounted at 10%) with respect to a 1% change in
the variable tested.
/c  The crossover value for yield in Krian represents an 11% shortfall from total expected
yield, but a 42% shortfall in expected incremental yield. The crossover v;lue for yield
in Sungei Manik represents a 36% shortfall in expected incremental yield. Shortfalls of
this magnitude are not considered likely.
t3
m >4



ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A 1 World Bank, "Malaysia: New Perspectives on the Third Malaysia
Plan." Report No. 1594-MA, October 14, 1977.
A 2 S. Selvadurai, "Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia," Ministry of
Agriculture, April 1977.
A 3 Farmers Organization Authority, "Integrated Rural Development under
the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80)," ESCAP Meeting, Tokyo, February
1977.
B. General Work and Studies Related to the Project
B 1 Ministry of Agriculture, Malaysia, "Proposed Krian/Sungei Manik
Integrated Agricultural Development Project," (3 volumes), November
1977.
B 2 Drainage and Irrigation Department, "Computerized Water Demand and
Availability Analysis for Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural
Development Project," March 1978.
B 3 ULG Consultants Ltd., "Krian Integrated Development Study," June 1975.
B 4 Muda Agricultural Development Authority, "Inspection of Muda and
Pedu Dams and Related Supplementary Studies," a proposal for the
provision of consulting services, April 1978.
B 5 Department of Agriculture, "Malaysia Rural Development Project, Krian/Sg.
Manik, Agriculture," (2 volumes), August 1977.
B 6 Farmers Organization Authority, "Krian Rural Development Project,
Report on the Farmers Organization Authority Component," August 1977.
B 7 Bank Pertanian Malaysia, "Krian and Sungei Manik Irrigation Improve-
ment Project," undated.
B 8 Drainage and Irrigation Department, "Reports on the Drainage and
Irrigation Components of Krian and Sg. Manik," August 1977.



MALAYSIA
KRIAN - SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Padi Cropping Calendar
Jan.      Feb.      March     April      May       June      July       Aug.      Sept.     Oct.      Nov.       Dec.       Jan.      Feb.
BLOCK 1                           C                                                             C
KRIAN               9.680 ha           T                                                             T                                                             T
SUNGEI MANIK         2,310 ha             M                                                                                                                          M
C                                                             C
BLOCK 2                    N                           N                                                             N
KRIAN               9,100 ha                     T                                                             T
SUNGEI MANIK         1,350 ha
H                                             H
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BLOCK 3                                                          N                                                   =           N
KRIAN               4,720 ha                               T                                                             T
SUNGEI MANIK        2,900 ha               M                  M
_     OH                                              H_                                                            H_
Notation:
Mmm
C = Cultivation           400
N = Nursery
T  = Transplanting
M = Management
H    Harvest             300
200                                                                                                                                                                    -
Average Rainfall lmm)/                                  I
Sungei Manik'//                                                                  /      ,t/y         /'             /             //j//     / ,/         /{
Jan.      Feb.     March      April      May      June       July      Aug.       Sept.     Oct.       Nov.      Dec.       Jan.      Feb.
World Bank- 18047



MAYAYSIA
KRIAN - SUNGE] MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KCRIAN SUB - PROJECT                                                                      Figure 3.2
Implemen.tation Schedule
~~~ ~~~                                                                                                       AGO Nb  - Fj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{OIVA. ONO. FM A u  jA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S AbS A+.    IA 
-OMPARTMENT A    IPLANNING
13010 l           2 "U GADET & AEDIICATIAN OF ALIGNMENT
CAMPAOEEENT0    1TPANNIN
COMPADT-ETC       I PLANNING                                                                     -      I 
1.8  81  2 NA-lEY & TEMIFICATION iF ALIGNMIENT
GMDDNTA  I TLANING-
COMPARTMENT C    I. PLANNING
(311DGu           2 GAROET & VEGIFIATION OF ALIGNMENT 
4. LANE ACQUISITION
COMPATMET 0    1I PLANNIG
(3,3500           0. S000E0 N OEDFIACOTGN OF ALIGNMENT
3 DEAILD DSIG
CDSTTCTO   TENDED
S ON STRUCTAFION
CD- ETE  F AD-EAGEANETONAET1 uNIA 8k-Pio






MALAYSIA
KRIAN - SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNGEI MANIK SUB - PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
jF I          2 AnAIONS~DJ    MAM              AG N           EMA  M      JASON  D jI F AM              7 AGO DJ FUAMJ  J A  S N
NO. 7         1 PLANNING
11,160 ha     2 SURVEY & VERIFICATION OF ALIGNMENT
3. DETAILED DESIGN
4 LANG ACQUISITION
S TENDER
9. CONSTRUCTION
NO 6          1. PLANNING
(11730 h.l    2 SURVEY & VERIFICATION OF ALIGNMENT.
3. DETAILED DESIGN
4. LAND ACQUISITION
N. TENDER
6. CONSTRUCTION
NO. 3A        1 .PLANNING
(192 Sal.     2~ SURVEY A VERIFICATION OF ALIGNMENT
3ll  a  . SURVEYEA VERIFIAING     FAIGMN
EQIMNTA PEARDACUSTIONDOUET
VEICES  TENDER
PROCh.  2URVEMEN & VERIFICATION  F_ALIGNMENT
OFIESA  DESIGN EA DUENTGN
QURES   TENDER9
6CONSTRUCTION                             .            I-
NO,     AREPAS ONDENTI      NAESG1
(1,610 W  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SURVEY & VERIFICATION OF ALIGNMENT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 90,11Rak   154






MALAYSIA
KR IAN -SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Services
| Ag-   -     -r        - -          -   - - ehica    |p            -                    MARDI
SMS Pad,
i.-SMS Pleat Protecri--
SL 3MS EigiMeering
Kria-                                                                Penang                                                                  Sungri Ma-ik
Technia Suppare
Technical Support                                                                                                                                                                                                                S S  -erics
S-ri-e  Kr,e-                                 Crcle AO                                                                                                                                Circle A.                                   ae P-rl
r                                     Knee                                                                                                                                    Lower Perak - Batg Padang
1AO (P.d,I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IAO
2 AD  P      |i  Crap Pruductio Lur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Co  Pruduc'ric |   AC
2 AA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2 AA
3 AT            UriU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2AT
1 AO lPedi             l             I 
1 AA            Crap Prerecier      tr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Crap Protecion| 1 AA
1~~ ~          ~~ AA |FrIehntto                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I     Farm  Meclianiaatiacl I AA
2AT           L-e  AA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Enter S| AT
EAteISIcA Sappurn Services                                                                                   I                                            Eateisiar                                          Services
6 AT |EctATertiarsion  |   |
_   Btgan Srang                                                                                               NiogTbl             130P                          aaKbe 1 AT Deer Plans                             Reglaoe
Briah   | (530B FF)                                         4 ~~~~~~~AT                                                  Legend                                                         t AA
S    uAT -      Parer FntcSO                                                         abEx eter- Spoa-- 2A
Regtulaloec         Devttlopmfe                                                   AC SM     Aubject MeOtter  PFells                              arer Fanrila
AA             6 AT hotentr-n                                                   (Home Econ6mic-) AA = Aereultarel AusiseaTt DavelopmTnt
_ BSanwTo,     1( AT D... Plots                                                                           AAA                                                                             PAT   Agriculturl Techncan
r      g _     (426Nb                                                                                           Tbl          1M                     Ma0 FF)  MARDI  Malaysian Age3ltarel                                                                       CS
__ _         _   I AT E tensIon                                                                                                                      Resa,rch 8, DevalopmeeDe n
_  Kutla K 8ra   (31CO F F)                                                                                                 LgdConteo                                                                                                           -
AT                                                       -  -ACordintio
| Tanjung Piandang | (23LO FFI                                                                                                                                                    World Bank - tB046~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WoldSan  104






IBRD 13149
l0100'                                                                                      10107'          To/poh   JANUARY 1978
MALAYSIA
KRIAN-SUNGEI MANIK INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Sungei Manik Sub-project
IRRIGATION  PROJECT
Stage I                             j-
R>    Stage I I
Stage III                          I.
Stage  IV
N
Canals
**=~   Droins and Rivers
Roads
-*--- I Railways
*      FDC ( Farmers Development Center)
FDC Sub-centers
0           123 
NIl'LES                    _      '      3Chandranf 
OUTLET GATE
4        /04'                                                                                                    Chekme                           4' 04Jt
/t  It I                         \041 inm/htosntit "                                                                  X  
S,d                          ~~~~~~~~~~Th leok A,sos,
L  |   101 OD               0                               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nytt tr,trottnoranaOrtetftleflht    liO - Statenlitn 5o,ndat,es  \ SINGAPORE
ot ccptaceof uc bondrie    lla    --ITHAILAtolBNDae






IBRD 13150
_                                                                =                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1978
Z!    PENANG
I;           ~STATE
Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-
F$N ~~~~~~i
Typical Layout of-- P,.~,,ed  e--- o...
A             (                           >                  \ _      fiSInpoKg U u
S-p-g             ~~On -Farm  Development                                        P.dF   ,
Tig.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-Mcj~Rod
KRIAN -SUNGEI MANIK  \._                                K  9            =          >_~
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMWENT                   \<              S                         ,W                                                0A>U
Krion Sub -project                                                                                                       g  IAIP KgDe
IRRIGATION PROJECT   \    !   >   2   9   k   \
EL   Blockkf II                                                                           +1            xX                       AD
-    Mom Canals~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P.d
Drio cod Rffroers            5TRAIT2                                                                                                   0000 </ 5ifiC. r^Kze^l9\2NC
tidol ProEection bufnds                 OF                                                                            '    \             J
-   Roadlos                                                                                                                          MA  ACA(0 00o 9_AAn >
*    Erdsting FDC                                                                                             K G---
o    Proposed FD- SDb-centers          '      2\
B                                                      C    1f lock Isse r
Tidol Protection gunds  OF       ~      ~     Od 00oopd,oooohoo;,ooo fy0oo0~oooodoooo,o           -o Bodo.
Roods~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000 Ooooooooooo ooo~



