Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8362-YDR
STAFF APPRi.ISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MAY 29, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CURRENCY AND EOUIVAENT UNITS
(May 1990)
The official currency unit of the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar (YD).
YD  1.0     -     US$ 2.898
USS 1.0  O        YD  0.345
SDR 1.0     =     US$ 1.304
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
km   -     Kilometer (0.621 miles)
lcd         Litres per capita per day
ls   =     Litres per second (22,800 gallons per day)
1         Litre (0.264 US gallons)
m   -     Meter (3.28 feet)
mm   -     Millimeters (0.394 inches)
m3   -     Cubic meter (264 US gallons)
Mm3         Million cubic meters
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
COCA  -     Central Organization for Control and Auditing
DGLG        Directorate General of Local Government
ICB   -     International Competitive Bidding
HAAR  -     Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
PDRY  -     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PIU   -     Project Implementation Unit
PWC   -     Public Water Corporation
SDR   -     Special Drawing Rights
SOE   -     Statement of Expenditures
WHO   -     World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FO, 4    AL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................                                          i
I.      THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Country Background ..................                                              1
Water Resources ....................                                               2
Sector Development ..................                                              2
Sector Organization ..................                                             3
Service Levels ..................                                                  4
Cost Recovery ..................                                                   5
IDA's  Involvement  in the Water Supply Sector ..............  5
Rationale for IDA Involvement .............................  7
II.    PROJECT AREA,  SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND
Project Area ..............................................  7
Climate and Water Resources ...............................  8
Existing Facilities .......................................  8
Projected Population and Water Consumption ................  9
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin ............................................  10
Project Objectives ........................................  11
Project Description .......................................  11
Status of Preparation .....................................  12
Project Cost ..............................................  13
Project Financing Plan and Financing Arrangements .........  14
Onlending Arrangements ....................................  14
Project Implementation ....................................  14
Procurement ...............................................  15
Disbursement ..............................................  17
Land and Miscellaneous Requirements .......................  18
Project Supervision .......................................  18
IV.    THE BENEFICIARIES
Public Water Corporation ..................................  19
PV.C Organization and Management ........................  20
PWC  Operatior.al Efficiency Improvement4 ................  20
PWC Personnel and Training .............................  21
Billing and Collection .................................  22
Accounting Practices and Procedures ....................  22
Insurance ..............................................  23
Taxes ..................................................  23
Directorate General of Local Government ...................  23
Central Organization for Control and Auditing .............  23
Auditing Requirements .....................................  23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Ms. Karen Rasmussen (Financial
Analyst) and Hr. David Henley (Sanitary Engineer), who visited PDRY in September/October 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-il-
V.   FInuNCIAL ANALYSIS
PVC's Past Performance and Current Financial Position ..... 24
PWC's Tariffs and Financial Policy          .    .         24
Financing Plan of PWC's Investment Program (1990-98) ...... 26
Monitoring System for PYC ................................. 28
VIL   PROJECT BEREFITS AND IMPACTS
Project Benefits .......................................... 28
Environmental Impact ...................................... 29
Land Requirements and Resettlement ........................ 29
Poverty Impact and Affordability .......................... 29
Adequacy of Tariffs ....................................... 29
Least Cost Solution ....................................... 29
Rate of Return ............................................ 30
Project h-.sks ............................................. 30
VIZ. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................... 30
1.   Projected Population, Water Consumption and Production (Tarim)
2.   Detailed Project Cost Estimates
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
4.   Project Implementation Program
5.   PWC Tarim Sub-branch Organization Chart
6.   Procurement Packages
7.   Credit Disbursement Schedule
8.   Annual Project Cost by Component
9.   Project Supervision Plan
10.  PWC Organization Chart
11.   PVC Fitancial Statements
12.   Ass-.ti:.tions for Financial Projections
13.  Data. on PWC's Production, Consumption and Connections by Branches
14.  PWC's Tariff Structure
15.  Monitoring Indicators for PVC
16.  Selected Documents Available from the Project File



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN'
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUR=ARY                                   _
or*=ower:               People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Beneficiaries:          Public Water Corporation (PWC)
Directorate General of Local Government (DGLG)
Central Organization for Control and Auditing (COCA)
Amount:                 SDR 9.2 million (US$ 12.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard terms with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:        US$ 11.2 million to PWC for 25 years including
7 years of grace at an interest rate of 8 percent
Prolect Descriltion:    The primary objective of the proposed project is to
increase the quantity and improve quality of potable
water provided to Tarim and adjacent villages. Other
objectives are to: (i) improve PWC's operational
efficiency and strengthen its managerial capabilities;
(ii) improve wastewater management; and (iii)
strengthen the audit profession in PDRY. The water
supply component of the project would include: (i)
drilling and equipping of a new borefield near Tarim;
(ii) constructing water storage reservoirs and a new
distribution system; (iii) the supply of water meters,
tools and operational equipment; (iv) devising a
manpower development and training program for PNC; and
(v) technical assistance for construction supervision
and for establishing management information systems.
The sewerage sector component would include: (i) a
wastewater disposal demonstration project; (ii) a
financing study for sewerage services and updating of
designs; and (iii) training for DGLG staff. The
project also provides for training of COCA staff in
accounting and auditing.
Benefits and Risks:     The project would provide water service to about
53,000 inhabitants living in the Tarim area and
adjacent villages by 1998. The pilot wastewater
component would promote low-cost methods of wastewater
disposal and improve sanitary conditions. The project
would also assess financial and institutional options
J/FolLowilg the recent aonuncement regarding unification of the Yemen Arab Republic and PDRY, all
references to PDRY in the documut should be taken to refer to the southern region of the newly formed
Republie of Yemen.



ii
for the provision of sewerage services and would
improve auditing practices in PDRY. The project is
straightforward and does not pose any unusual                  [
risks or environmental hazards.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign      Total
----------US$ million)------
New Borefield                         0.42        2.70         3.12
Primary Transmission Pipelines        0.31        1.37         1.68
Distribution System                   0.78        1.32         2.10
Storage Reservoirs                    0.52        1.21         1.73
Administrative Sub-Center             0.14        0.08         0.22
Supply of Operational Equipment      0.08         0.78         0.86
Wastewater Demonstration Proj ct    0.15          0.33         0.48
Training and Technical Assistance   0.03          0.68         0.71
Construction Supervis.cn              0.08        0.66         0.74
Total Base Cost (May 1990)          2.51        9.13        11.64
Physical Contingencies                0.28        0.93         1.21
Price Contingencies                   0.36        1.94t        2.30
Total Project Cost                  3.15       12.00         LL5
Financing Plan:                       Local       Foreign    Total
----------(US$ million)-
PWC/Government                        3.15                     3.15
IDA                                    -         12.00        12.00
Total                               3.15       12.00        15.15
Estimated Disbursements:
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   £Y95   FY96   FY97   FY98
--------------------(US$ million)--------------------
Annual              0.592  0.97  2.52   2.64   2.64   1.56    0.84   0.24
Cumulative          0.59   1.56  4.08   6.72   9.36  10.92   11.76  12.00
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.  However a rate of return has
been calculated at 9 percent using tariffs as
a proxy for benefits.
&2: IBRD No. 21987
Z//Includes an initial deposit of US8550.OOO in the Special Account.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC QP YEMEN
TARI4 WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE VATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Country Background
1.01  The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) is located in the
southern corner of the Arabian Peninsula. It occupies an area of 333,000 square
kilometers and extends about 1,100 kilometers along the Gulf of Aden. It is a
semi-arid land of rugged configuration, with sparse vegetation and few natural
resources. The majority of the population lives in the narrow coastal plain.
The country becomes very mountainous further inland to the north where ground
elevations exceed 2,000 meters. Beyond the mountains, the land flattens again
to form the high plateaux and the Northern Desert which extend into the Yemen
Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia.
1.02 The climate of PDRY is harsh and dry, though it is milder in the interior
plateaux. In general, temperatures along the coastal areas are more uniform and
humid throughout the year than in the interior.  The hottest months are May
through September when temperatures exceeding 45 degrees Celsius are often
recorded in parts of the country. Rainfall along the coastal areas is irregular
but more frequent during the winter months; the mean annual rainfall along the
coastal plain is about 50 millimeters (mm). In the mountains, it is more regular
and occurs in the summer months with an average annual rainfall of about 500 mm.
The rate of evaporation is higlh and runoff is either limited or takes the form
of flash floods.
1.03 PDRY is divided into six governorates which are administered by a governor
and a Local People's Council.   According to the 1988 census, the country's
population of about 2.3 million is growing at an annual rate of 2.6X. About one-
third of the population lives in urban areas, of which 350,000 inhabitants (or
half the urban population) are concentrated in the capital city of Aden. The
second largest city is Al Mukalla which has a population of about 82,000. The
population of each of the five other major towns of Seiyun, Tarim, Shibam, Gaar,
and Zinzibar range from 10,000 to 40,000 inhabitants.   The remaining urban
population is distributed in towns of less than 10,000 inhabitants.  About 10%
of the total population is nomadic.
1.04 Since its creation as a sovereign state in 1967, PDRY's economy has been
based on centralized planning and collective ownership of productive resources.
Since 1982 the growth in production output has slowed down as a result of
disastrous floods, a subsequent drought which continued into early 1986, and the
civil disturbances of January 1986. Thi floods of 1982 inflicted severe damage
to the country's infrastructure and to the agriculture sector, causing crop
losses which affected both domestic consumption and exports. In addition, the
Government restricted imports and lowered its investment activity. As a result,
GDP growth averaged about 2.51 during 1982-88. Production levels achieved in
the mid-1970s are not likely to be repeated before 1991 when the development of
new oil discoveries are expected to come on stream. A further setback occurred



2
in early 1989 when floods caused extensive losses to the agricultural sector and
major damage to infrastructure amounting to 13X of GDP. GNP per capita was
estimated to be $430 in 1988.
Rater Resources
1.05 PDRY relies almost entirely on underground water resources since few
perennial streams exist. The more abundant rainfall in the mountains drains as
groundwater into wadis (dry river beds). The three most important wadis which
comprise the country's main water resources are the Hadramawt, with a drainage
area of 90,000 square kilometers (kin), and the Bana and Tuban wadis with 9,600
kin and 5,000 kin of drainage areas, respectively.
1.06 Water supply sources are scarce throughout the country with the exception
of Wadi Hadramawt where large groundwater resources are still available. Several
aquifers along the coastline have for some time been overexploited; this led to
the intrusion of seawater that has caused permanent deterioration in the quality
of the water in some areas. Since water demand for urban and agricultural uses
in the Aden area has already exceeded the available groundwater resources of Wadi
Tuban, water i8 now being brought in from the adjacent Wadi Bana. Insufficient
groundwater resources near the city of Al Mukalla have resulted in water being
piped in from a distance of 50 km. Small villages on the plateaux depend on deep
wells or on the collection of rainfall in generally unsanitary open ditches.
1.07 The construction of the Hiswa Power and Desalination Plant commenced in
the mid 1970s as a result of Government's strategic concerns about the adequacy
of water resources for Aden. Even though less expensive conventional groundwater
resources in sufficient quantity to meet Aden's demand have since been located
in Wadi Bana, it is the Government's intention that the Public Water Corporation
(.WC) blend some desalinated water with groundwater in order to keep the plant
in an operational status (para.5.08). The first two units of the Hiswa Power
and Desalination Plant located near Aden began operating in late 1989. In 1994
when it is expected to be fully commissioned, forecasts indicate that the Hiswa
Power and Desalination Plant would be able to produce sufficient fresh water from
seawater to meet about 251 of projected water demand in the greater Aden area
during the next decade.
Sector Develonment
1.08 The Government's principal sectoral objective is to develop water supply
systems to meet the basic needs of the country's population which is projected
to grow annually at about 2.61 through the year 2000. The first priority has been
to provide water to major urban areas, followed by improving access to water for
the rural and nomadic populations. Other objectives have been to strengthen the
institutional capacity and financial viability of the Public Water Corporation
which is responsible for the design, construction, operation and maintenance of
water supply systems in major population centers. The Government is aware that
emphasJ.s needs to be placed on water resource management in view of the scarcity
of water and the development of agricultural production which has created
increasing pressure on the allocation of water between municipal and agricultural
users. In addition to water scarcity, the development of the sector has been
hampered by the remoteness of urban centers from major aquifers, the country's



3
rugged topography,  and its limited financial resources.   In rural areas,
development has also been constrained by a shortage of skilled personnel to
operate and maintain existing systems. The United Nations Development Programme
is supporting a project which focuses on improving the operation and maintenance
of rural water supply systems.
1.09 Until about a decade ago, comparatively little attention was paid to the
development of water resources or to improving the quality of the water supply.
From 1969 to 1978, only about US$12.5 million equivalent, or less than 22 of the
public investment program, was allocated to the water supply sector. However,
since the 1980g, greater emphasis has been placed on water supply. During the
second Five-Year Plan (1981-85), sector investments totalled $58.0 million (in
1980 prices), or 6.5X of the total investment program. The Third Five-Year Plan
(1986-90) foresees sector investments equivalent to US$130 million (in 1986
prices), or about 8.52 of the total investment budget. The Government's
investment priorities were initially aimed meeting the water needs of Aden where
groundwater resources had become contaminated by seawater infiltration as a
result of overpumping. Emphasis is now being placed on providing adequate water
supply to secondary towns and villages such as Seiyun, Al Mukalla, Tarim, Laboos,
Ataq, and Hora. In th-e rural areas, many villages are now served by piped water
systems. The Government is also implementing programs to construct wells to
eliminate unsanitary sources and improve access to potable water, and integrated
regional systems are under preparation. Sewerage projects valued at about $80
million equivalent (in 1986 prices) have also been completed for most districts
in Aden and about two-thirds of the city of Al Mukalla. Studies to upgrade the
remainder of Aden's sewerage system are under preparation. Designs have also
been prepared for sewerage projects in the cities of Seiyun, Gaar, Zinzibar and
the remaining October district of Al Mukalla. These projects are estimated to
cost about $85 million equivalent, for which financing has yet to be identified.
The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) under preparation is expected to allocate
the same proportion of investment for water supply, with greater emphasis to the
development of the sewerage sector.
1.10 The Government has requested IDA to undertake a sector survey of municipal
infrastructure needs including housing, solid waste disposal, water supply and
sewerage. The survey will review, inter ali, the institutional framework of
the sector, financial and technical aspects, including operation and maintenance
of municipal infrastructure, water resource management practices and the
establishment of sector strategies.
Sector Organization
1.11 In 1981, the National Water Committee was established to determine
development priorities and to allocate water resources.   It consists of
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), the
Ministry of Planning and PWC. Within the MAAR, the Water Resource Division of
the Department of Irrigation is responsible for managing water resources
throughout the country. There is a need to strengthen coordination between the
various agencies, as inadequate monitoring and control has led to haphazard
drilling of wells, over-exploitation of aquifers and inefficient use of sci.rce
water resources. The proposed sector survey (para. 1.10) would help to identify
ways to improve water resource management.



4
1.12 PWC was established in 1970 under Law Number 19 and is responsible for the
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of potable water supply
systems in the major urban centers (Chapter IV). PWC also provides technical
assistance to the local administrations and the Directorate General of Local
Government (DGLG) for the design and construction of village and rural water
supply frcilities.  Local administrations and local cooperatives operate the
piped village water systems, while DGLG constructs wells in rural areas.  On
behalf of the Government, PWC is currently implementing about 30 small rural
water supp'y rehabilitation and extension projects in addition to the rural water
supply project sponsored by the United Nations Development Programme.
1.13 The Directorate General of Local Government and the municipal authorities
share the responsibility for sewerage development (para.4.18). DGLG plans and
constructs sewerage facilities, while the municipal authorities are responsible
for operation and maintainance of the systems. DGLG employs consultants to carry
out technical studies for the identification and preparation of sewerage projects
in urban centers and contracts out for their implementation. A sewerage sector
study financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development recommended
the establishment of a sewerage development unit within DGLG as an interim step
towards the development of a public corporation for sewerage. Although this
institutional approach has been endorsed by the Government, a timetable for its
implementation has yet to be adopted.
Service Levels
1.14 Two-thirds of the country's population, or about 1,600,000 inhabitants,
can be reached by piped water supply systems, out of which ncarly 73% (or 1.2
million inhabitants) are already served with piped water. PWC currently provides
piped water supply to almost 650,000
i-nhabitants (or about 29% of the
country's total population) located in             WATEA SWPLY SERV I E LEVELS
the 11 major urban centers of Aden, Al
Mukalla,    Howtah,    Dhala,    Gaar,             M
Zinzibar, Radfan, Tor Al Baha, Seiyun,
Ghail  Bawazir  and  Shihir.      The                                ST
inhabitants who live in rural areas
which have piped water systems (or ,m,w,> ", M 
about 19.2% of the total population)
are  served  by  the  Local People's
Councils or local cooperatives.  The
remaining one-third of the country's                                W D1C7 C" .
population who cannot be reached by
piped water consists of nomads and
small communities which will continue
to rely on water from individual wells  Figure 1
(Figure 1). The level of water supply
service in PDRY compares favorably
with other countries in the region, particularly in view of the limited financial
resources, the rugged topography and scattered population distribution throughout
the country which have contributed to the high cost of development.



5
1.15 Over 972 of the households served by PWC have house connections. The
remaining inhabitants located mainly in outlying areas depend on public
standpipes. Most of the house connections in Aden, Al Mukalla and Hawtah/Dhala
are metered and the metering program for the new branc'h at Seiyun is expected
to be completed at the end of 1990. In 1988, PWC integrated four existing water
supply systems into its operations. A significant pcrtion of the population
served in these towns (Tor Al Baha, Radfan, Gaar and Zinzibar) are not yet
metered. The rural water supply systems operated by the Local People's Councils
serve about 40X-45X of households by direct connections, and the balance use
public- standpipes. Nomads living in the hills depend cn water from small dams,
dikes and a number of deep wells for domestic con:umption and livestock. Nomads
in the plains depend on boreholes maintained by the Local People's Councils.
1.16 Most of the densely populated areas of Aden are sewered, and about half
of the city is sewered by a new system that is connected to stabilization ponds.
However, the older parts of the system are in poor condition and discharge
effluents directly to the harbour or the open sea through short outfalls.    A
new sewer system serving about two thirds of the population of Al Mukalla has
been recently completed.  Although sewer lines exist in some of the densely
populated areas of a few other towns, the vast majority of the population depends
on individual cesspits, dry pits and septic tanks for waste disposal. As water
consumption increases, overflows from cesspits and septic tanks in the most
densely populated areas saturate the surrounding ground, create unsanitary
conditions and weaken the foundations of traditional mud-brick buildings. As
a result sewage overflows have affected some of the historic buildings,
particularly in towns located in the Wadi Hadramawt. This situation needs to
be addressed through the introduction of appropriate wastewater collection and
disposal systems.
Cost RecoverM
1.17 The Government's cost recovery policy for urban water supply requires PWC
to generate revenues sufficient to cover operational expenditures, debt service
and a portion of its investment program (para. 5.02). PWC charges progressive
tariffs for metered water usage. Unmetered households, or those using public
standpipes, pay flat monthly charges based on the number of individuals per
household. Traditionally, concessional aid from multilatera-. and bilateral aid
agencies and Government grants have financed the water supp±y systems of small
towns and villages not served by PWC.  Funding for sewerage operation and
maintenance is provided by municipal budgets which include central government
allocations as well as various fees imposed by the municipalitibs.
IDA's IMolvement in the Hater SutPl Sector
1.18  IDA involvement in the sector has supported the Government's objectives
to provide potable wauer supply systems for the country's major urban centers
and strengthen the institutional capacity of PWC to operate and maintain these
systems.  IDA has thus far provided about $41 million for five water supply
projects valued in total at about $130 million.  IDA's participation in the
sector began in 1978 with the approval of a US$1.2 million Water Supply
Engineering Credit (Credit S-21-YDR). The Project Completion Report (PCR) (No.
4322 dated January 24, 1983), concluded tbht project objectivec were met, namely



6
the formulation of well planned construction projects in the country's major
urban centers and tne adoption by PWC of an improved organizational structure.
In 1980, a credit of US$13.2 million was made for the Greater Aden Water Supply
Project (Credit 1038-YDR). The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 7582 dated
December 30, 1988) states that the project met its objectives of increasing
production capacity by 30%, reducing unaccounted-for-water and improving PWC's
administrative procedures in spite of delays in project implementation. The main
lesson learned was that careful investigation of groundwater resources in an arid
country like PDRY should be carried out prior to project appraisal. A credit
of SDR 2.9 million for the Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (Credit           W
1159-YDR) approved in 1981 aimed at: (i) increasing water production through the
construction of boreholes and the improvement and expansion of the water
distribution network; and (ii) implementing a public health program. The PCR
(No. 7528 dated November 30, 1988) concluded that project objectives were met
even though the increase in water production from the existing borefield did
not materialize to the extent envisaged. The PCR highlighted the need for better
coordination between all relevant ministries with respect to the health education
component, and the importance of technical assistance and training to strengthen
PWC'- managerial and operational capacities. An IDA credit of SDR 6.5 million
was approved in November 1983 for the Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project
(Credit 1418-YDR) to meet the demand for water in the country's third largest
town and surrounding villages.   The project also provided for management
assistance and training for PWC staff in the Wadi Hadramawt. The project was
implemented satisfactorily and the credit closed on December 31, 1989. The new
Seiyun branch of PWC commenced uperations in mid-1988, and is now completing its
metering program.
1.19  In October 1986, IDA extended a credit of SDR 5.3 million for the Greater
Aden Second Water Supply Project (Credit 1739-YDR). The project provides for the
construction of a wellfield, further renovation and expansion of the water
distribution network, management assistance and staff training. The establishment
of a hydrogeological branch in PWC's head office, and a leak detection and repair
program have also been included. Initial implementasAon delays resulted from
the 1986 events and a shortfall in foreign financing available from co-
financiers which has now been resolved.  The consultants Aor construction
supervision have been appointed and tenders for the major contracts have been
signed. Construction is expected to commence during the third quarter of 1990.
A fifth credit of SDR 8.7 million for the Al Mukalla Water Supply Project (Credit
1944-YDR) was approved in July 1988.   In addition to overcoming a critical
shortage of water, the project includes technical assistance for detection and
control of water losses and improved system analysis and operation at the Al
Mukalla branch of PWC. At the corporate level, the project includes instituting
a computerized billing and accounting system at PWC headquarters, a financial
study and an assessment of PWC's training needs, including overseas fellowship
training for PWC staff. The credit became effective in June 1989. Consultants
for construction supervision have been selected. Project implementation has been
delayed by about six months due to the necessity to repackage contracts in order
to accommodate procurement procedures followed by co-financiers and IDA. The
experience gained from IDA's previous and ongoing involvement in the sector has
been taken into account in the design of the proposed project. In particular,
the proposed project would focus on measures to further improve PWC's managerial



7
and operational efficiency during the 1990s when PWC will be undergoing a rapid
phase of expansion.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.2' The Government's development strategy has focussed mainly on: (i)
satisfying the basic needs of the population; (ii) developing the productive
base of the economy; (iii) strengthening basic infrastructure in transport and
public utilities; (iv) improving the efficiency of public sector institutions;
and Cv) manpower training. IDA has supported the Government's strategy in the
water supply sector through five water supply operations aimed at: (i) providing
potable water to major urban centers and rural growth centers; and (ii)
strengthening the institutional capacity of PWC through the adoption of sound
technical, financial and operational policies.
1.21 The proposed project would build on initiatives under ongoing IDA projects
to improve PWC's operational efficiency (paras. 4.05-4.08). By the end of the
century, PWC's water supply network is projected to expand to serve more than
400,000 new customers. This amounts to a 60Z increase over its current consumer
base of about 650,000 customers. During this rapid phase of expansion, continued
IDA involvement would assist PWC to further improve and streamline management
and administrative capabilities, institute operational efficiency measures and
maintain prudent financial policies. The proposed project would include the
carrying out of an intensive metering program to redwce unaccounted-for-water
and promote water conservation, installing maw gement information and inventory
control systems, designing a comprehensive manpower development plan and staff
training.
1.22 The proposed project would also represent IDA's first involvement in the
sewerage sector, thus providing an opportunity to initiate a dialogue with the
Government on sectoral financial and organizational policies. In addition, a
pilot wastewater disposal component would introduce low-cost technologies for
safe disposal of wastewater which would be replicable in various regions of the
country. For the first time, IDA would also provide technical assistance to the
Central Organization for Control and Auditing (COCA), the Government auditing
agency, to strengthen accounting and auditing procedures.
II. PROJECT AREA. SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND
Project Area
2.01 The town of Tarim is located centrally in PDRY, about 500 km east of Aden,
and 200 km inland from the Indian Ocean.  It is an important administrative
center in the Hadramawt Governorate, and the second most populous town in the
Hadramawt Valley which is also the most productive agricultural area in the
country. Historically, Tarim has been a cultural and religious center, and this
character is still being retained. The Hadramawt Valley is a broad flat area
of land, generally endowed with adequate groundwater resources to support
agricultural activities, and bc -rdered by rugged cliffs beyond which barren upland
extends to the Arabian Desert   Tarim and most of the surrounding villages are
located on the gentler slopes at the foot of these cliffs.



8
2.02 The proposed project would serve Tarim and the densely populated
surrounding area, with a present population of 40,000 inhabitants. Tarim is the
taurth largest urban center in the country, where the quantity of water is
insufficient to meet existing demand and the quality of water is unsafe for
drinking.   Tarim itself, with about 33,000 people at present,  is densely
developed with typical buildings of about four floors, constructed of traditional
sun-dried mud-brick, both for economy and insulation from temperature extremes.
Tarim is the main center of an area which extends about 55 km along the Hadramawt
Valley and into some of the side wadis, presently with a population of about
73,000 people. Piped water supply would eventually be extended to that entire
area which adjoins the area of the Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project (Credit
1418-YDR).  The proposed project would also provide water supply to the new
housing development being undertaken for about 4,800 inhabitants rendered
homeless by the torrential rains and flooding which occurred in 1989.
Climate and Water Resources
2.03 The climate of the project area is hot and dry, with mean daily
temperatures varying between 34 degrees Celsius in July and 20 degrees Celsius
in December; temperatures frequently reach 45 degrees Celsius.  Annual rainfall
averages around 50 mm.   Water resources are almost entirely groundwater,
recharged either from local rainfall or from more abundant precipitation in the
mountains to the west.  The better water quality is found in the smaller side
wadis which are mostly recharged from local rainfall. The proposed project will
use only about one percent of the total available groundwater resources and hence
will not deplete the aquifer.
Existing Facilities
2.04 Water is currently supplied to the Tarim area by a total of sixteen small
private undertakings and cooperatives, some of which consist of a single well,
pump, and part-time operator, serving as few as 150 people. The Government is
a majority shareholder in many of these companies and has provided most of the
capital investment funding on a grant basis. All of these small enterprises
suffer from inadequate physical and financial resources and limited technical
and managerial staff. This has hampered the expansion of existing facilities
whLich presently supply insufficient water for personal hygiene (para. 2.06).
2.05 Water quality is poor and highly saline. As a result, one of the small
private companies has recently ceased to operate, which has further burdened
adjacent water supply companies. Water is neither chlorinated nor treated in
any other way. Some shallow water sources have already become polluted by the
wastes from nearby urban and rural development, which is revealed by their high
bacteria content (up to 2,500 faecal coliforms per 100 milliliters) and high
concentration of nitrates (up to 30 milligrams per litre). The blockage of pipes
and water meters occurs frequently due to the formation of scale caused by poor
water quality. System operations are characterized by very low pressure in parts
of the network, including discontinuous service which causes further water
quality concerns since sullage or other contaminated water can potentially be
drawn into the pipes. Rehabilitation of the system is not economical because
the existing pipes are too corroded and pumps and other equipment are in a very



9
poor condition. Hence the proposed project would replace most of the existing
facilities.
2.06 The standard of service varies considerably throughout the area, ranging
from standpipes to house connections. Present water production averages about
60 liters per capita per day (lcd) in Tarim town, and up to about 40 lcd in
adjacent villages, though distribution is uneven. The level of unaccounted-
for-water is not known. About half of the household connections are metered.
Water tariffs are collected either as a flat fee or from metered usage. Since
revenues over the past several years have been insufficient to meet adequate
operation and maintenance requirements, major replacement and expansion programs
have been delayed.
2.07 At present there are no municipal sewerage systems in the Hadramawt
Valley. Wastewater and night soil are generally disposed of via vaults, septic
tanks, and/or absorption pits.   Since absorption pits are often inadequate,
wastewater regularly overflows and represents a significant health hazard to the
population. In addition, overloaded or improperly constructed absorption pits
often cause failures to the foundations of mud-brick houses and buildings.
Emptying of vaults is undertaken by farmers for use as fertilizer and soil
conditioner.
2.08  Given the prevailing operational and financial limitations of existing
water utilities, there is little prospect for building an efficient and
financially viable private water supply sector in PDRY. Discussions have been
held by IDA missions with individual entrepreneurs and with the Government on
strengthening the existing enterprises or having them subsumed by PWC. It is
recognized that although cooperatives and small enterprises will continue to be
the appropriate structure for handling small and dispersed rural water supply
schemes, there are significant managerial, technical and operational advantages
which would benefit the inhabitants in Tarim if the small companies were taken
over by PWC. Therefore it was concluded that the poor operational capabilities
and weak capital structure of existing enterprises could not reasonably be
improved without merging them with PWC. This approach is consistent with the
Government strategy for the development of water supply services in urban and
populous rural centers, and has resulted in more efficient management and
operations and better access to finance and staff training.
Projected Population and Water Consumption
2.09 Current population data is based on the 1988 census (para 2.02). In line
with historical trends during 1973-88, the population of Tarim is projected to
grow annually at 3.3% and by 2.9% per year in surrounding villages. Population
projections and other statistics on Tarim are provided in Annex 1. By 1998, the
first year of full operation of the new water supply system, the total population
served is projected to reach 53,000, including about 22,000 inhabitants at or
below the poverty level. Following completion of a second phase of construction
to provide water supply service to the entire Tarim region (para. 3.01), the
population to be served could reach 110,000 by the year 2010.
2.10 Current water consumption levels are suppressed due to intermittent
supply, and hence do not provide an adequate measure of the likely consumption



10
patterns after completion of the project. Measurements of consumption have been
made in typical well-supplied areas
of Tarim and surrounding villages.
Projections of future consumption         TARIM PRODUCTION AND SALES PROJECTIONS
have been based on present per
capita figures obtained from these        4_
measurements and by assuming a 1.5X
annual growth rate in per capita                              /
consumption.     Domestic  annual                           /
consuwntion is estimated to reach
about 81 lcd in Tarim and 58 lcd in      a
the nearby villages by the year          .
2000, resulting in total domestic    ,
consumption of 1.6 million cubic         OS 
meters  (i3)  per   year.        An
additional 0.4 million m3 per year                aI aB  ,   .         MO 2  
"AA
will be supplied to non-domestic  "- S               .  T",SL     v 1faA=P
users (in particular mosques which  I
are  large  consumers),  averaging  Figure 2
about 12 liters per day for each
inhabitant.       The   projected
consumption figures are moderate and reflect the high level of water tariffs in
PDRY which act as an incentive to water conservation.
2.11 Water losses have also been taken into account in determining total water
production requirements. Unaccounted-for-water has been projected at 20X after
completion of the proposed project, consistent with figures achieved for new
water supply systems in other parts of the country. Due to the difference in
demand for water between summer and winter, daily production capacity needs to
exceed the yearly average.  Based on experience in the area, a 501 increase has
been used in designing water production facilities. A further factor of 2.0 to
2.5 has been adopted for the design of the distribution system to allow for
variations in demand throughout the day. Data on per capita consumption, total
consumption and production for the proposed project are presented in Annex 1 and
Figure 2.
III. THE PROJECT
Prolect Orijin
3.01 During the 1982 appraisal of the Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project
(Credit 1418-YDR), it was recognized that the Tarim area was the last major
populated center of the Hadramawt where the existing water supply was inadequate
in quantity and below an acceptable quality to meet personal hygiene needs. The
towns of Al Qatn and Shibam to the west of Seiyun had already received improved
supplies under the First Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project (Credit 615-YDR).
Studies, which were financed under Credit 1418-YDR to locate and prove sufficient
groundwater resources and to prepare detailed designs and tender documents for
a Tarim Regional Water Supply Project, were completed in June 1989 and form the
basis of the proposed project. The Government and PWC subsequently requested



11
IDA assistance to proceed with the provision of water supply services to Tarim
and its surrounding villages, the high priority first phase of a long-term
development program (para.3.C3).
3.02 The feasibility studies showed that the area could best be served with
water from three separate subsystems: a major one serving Tarim and neighboring
villages and two subsidiary systems serving more distant villages. A safe and
exploitable yield of good quality groundwater resources was shown to be adequate,
as indicated by several previous hydrogeological su,veys which were supplemented
by further investigatory wells.
3.03 The project design is simple and straightforward. To optimize the use
of its constrained financial resources, the Government has decided to include
the most urgent works in and near Tarim town under the proposed project. The
supply of distant villages will be undertaken by PWC in the late 1990s from its
own financial resources.
3.04 The Government requested that a sewerage component be included under the
proposed project to assess low-cost technologies to dispose of wastewater *ith
a view to improve sanitary and living conditions particularly in urban areas.
Since conventional sewerage projects constructed in the two largest cities in
the country have thus far proven unaffordable, the project also includes a study
to identify financing and cost recovery options for the sewerage sector. Finally
the Government rsquested assistance to improve the technical capability of COCA,
its accounting and auditing agency.
Prolect Obiectives
3.05 The primary objective of the proposed project is to increase the quantity
and improve the quality of water supply services in Tarim and adjacent villages
through the creation of a sub-branch of PWC in Tarim.  The project would
complement ongoing initiatives to strenghten PWC's managerial and operational
capabilities through: (i) the establishment of management information and
inventory control systems; (ii) the reduction of unaccounted-for-water, which
would enhance revenues and promote water conservation; and (iii) the design of
a manpower development program and training.   In the sewerage sector, the
proposed project aims to: (i) enhance environmental and public health conditions
by contributing to the improvement of wastewater management; and (ii) assess
financing and cost recovery options for sewerage services.  The project also
includes a training program for COCA to strengthen government accounting and
auditing practices.
Proiect Descrintion
3.06 The project consists of the following main components:
(i) the drilling and equipping of a new borefield near Tarim;
(ii) the construction of water storage reservoirs and distribution systems
in Tarim town and adjacent villages (including the provision of water
supply to the new housing development being undertaken for about 4,800
inhabitan*- rendered homeless by the floods of early 1989);



12
(iii) the supply of water meters, tools, and operational equipment;
(iv) a wastewater disposal demonstration project;
(v) the design of a manpower training program for PWC, and the provision
of training for PWC, DGLG and COCA staff; and
(vi) technical  assistance  for:  (a)  construction  supervision;   (b)
installation of management information and inventory control systems
at PWC headquarters; (c) a financing and cost recovery study for the
sewerage sector; and (d) updating of existing sewerage detailed
designs.
3.07 The proposed project also builds on initiatives being carried out under
two ongoing IDA projects to strengthen PWC's management and operational
capabilities  (paras.4.05-4.08).   Through the proposed project,  management
information and inventory control systems would be established to complement the
computerization of accounting and billing which is being carried out under Credit
1944-YDR.   As a further measure to improve operational efficiency, reduce
unaccounted-for-water and enhance revenues, a three-year intensive program to
meter all water connections at PWC's 7 branches and headquarters will be
completed by December 31, J993. In addition, a five-year manpower development
program would be prepared, which would also assess the feasibility of
establishing a training center within PWC (para. 4.12).   The provision for
training of PWC staff, based on the recommendations of the manpower development
program, is also included under the proposed project.
3.08 Several alternative low-cost sanitation systems would be implemented by
DGLG on a pilot basis and their performanc- evaluated in terms of cost,
effectiveness, acceptability to the community, and the potential for beneficial
use of the effluent. A specialist consultant would be employed by DGLG to assist
in execution of the demonstration project. DGLG staff would also be trained to
provide guidance to municipalities implementing such low-cost sanitation
techniques.   Furthermore, training in technical and managerial fields, with
particular emphasis on sewecage maintenance and operation, would be provided to
DGLG and municipal staff. The proposed project includes a financing and cost
recovery study of the sewerage sector which would help to define a suitable
strategy for future development of the sector. In addition, the proposed project
provides for training of COCA staff to strengthen government accounting and
auditing practices.
Status of PreRaration
3.09 The final designs and tender documents for all project components have
been reviewed and found acceptable by IDA. The terms of reference for all of
the studies to be carried out under the project have been discussed and agreed
with the Government and PWC (Project Files, B5 to B9). The scope of training
programs proposed for PWC, DGLG and COCA were also discussed and agreed during
negotiations.



13
Ptoject JCost
3.10 Tthe total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $15.15 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of $12.00 million equivalent
which amounts to about 79X of total project costs.   The proposed project is
exempted from customs duties, but includes identifiable taxes for about $0.43
million, or 5 of the cost of civil works and engineering services. Estimated
project costs by component are summarized in Table 3.1. A more detailed cost
estimate is presented in Annex 2.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
Local  Foreign Total       Local  Foreign Total
------YD Million------     -------USS Million----
1. New Tarim Borefield        0.14   0.93   1.07          0.42  2.70   3.12
2. Primary Transmission
Pipelines                 0.11   0.47   0.58           0.31  1.37   1.68
3. Tarim Distribution
System and Supply to      0.28   0.46   0.74           0.78  1.32   2.10
Adjacent Viltages
4. Storage Reservoirs         0.17   0.42   0.59          0.52  1.21   1.73
5. Administrative
Sub-Center                0.05   0.03   0.08           0.14  0.08   0.22
6. Supply of Operational
Equipment & Water Meters  0.03   0.27   0.30           0.08  0.78   0.86
7. Wastewater Disposal
Demanstration Project     0.05   0.11   0.16           0.15  0.33   0.48
8. Training and
Technical Assistance      0.01   0.23   0.24           0.03  0.68   0.71
9. Construction Supervision   0.03          0.26          0.08  0.66   0.74
Base Cost (Nay 1990)    0.87   3.15   4.02          2.51  9.13  11.64
Physical Contingencies    0.10   0.32   0.42           0.28  0.93   1.21
Price Contingencies       0.12   0.67   o              036  1.94   2.30
Total Project Cast             4 41 4   5.23        3.15  12.00  15.15
3.11  Base costs are expressed in May 1990 prices.  Cost estimates were prepared
by consultants in 1988 and have been updated to reflect recent international
tenders for similar work in PDRY. A physical contingency allowance of about 10l
has been added to the base cost. Price contingencies are estimated at $2.30
million and have been calculated on the basis of a 32 annual increase in local
costs through 1992, 3.52 for 1993 and 1994, and 3X thereafter; foreign price
contingencies average 4.9X per year through 1995, and 3.72 annually thereafter.
The project provides for about 52 man-months of consulting services to assist
PWC in construxction supervision and 45 man-months of technical assistance for
the carrying out of studies, training for PWC, DGLG and COCA staff, and



14
consultancy services to assist DGLG in the pilot wastewater demonstration
project. Construction of the water works is expected to be completed by December
31, 1995 and other project components would be fully implemented by June 30,
1997.
Progect Pinancina Plan and Pinanc1na Arrangements
3.12 The proposed IDA credit of $12.0 million equivalent would finance the
entire foreign exchange component, or about 79X of total project costs. About
$3.15 million in local funds would be contributed by PWC and the Government. The
financing plan for the proposed project is described below in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Proiect Financing Plan
Local    Foreign   Total
-------US$ Million------
Funds Reauired
PWC: Tarim Water Supply         3.00     11.20    14.20
DGLG                            0.15      0.70     0.85
COCA                             -        0.10     .10
Total Reauirements             31       120.00   15.15
Sources of Funds
IDA                               -       12.00    12.00
PVCjCovernment                   3.1        _       3.15
Totsl Sources                  3.15     12Q0   1.5L
Onlending Arrangements
3.13 The proposed Credit would be made to the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen under standard IDA terms (40 years including 10 years of grace).  The
Government would onlend $11.2 million equivalent of the credit to PWC for a
period of 25 years including seven years of grace, at an interest rate of 81.
As under previous water supply projects and in view of the social nature of the
project, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.   The
Government would retain US$0.80 million of the credit to finance the foreign
exchange costs of sewerage studies, the wastewater demonstration project, and
training for DGLG and COCA staff. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and PWC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Prolect IM2lemeptation
3.14 PWC would be responsible for implementing the water supply component of the
project. Assurances were received during negotiations that PWC will establish,
not later than March 31, 1991, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in Tarim on
the basis of terms of reference and staffing satisfactory to IDA. Furthermore,
the PIU would be headed by an experienced project manager. The administrative
capacity of the PIU would be built up to monitor current water supply activities



15
in Tarim and to take over these operations when the proposed project becomes
operational in 1996. In addition, agreement was reached during negotiations with
PWC and the Government on execution of the Project Implementation Program which
is presented in Annexes 3 and 4. Assurances were received that PWC shall: (i)
employ consultants, by March 31, 1991, to assist in the supervision of
construction activities; (ii) employ consultants, by June 30, 1991, for the
purpose of establishing management information and inventory control systems;
(iii) design a five-year manpower development program, and commence a training
program for PWC staff by December 31, 1991, based on the recommendations of the
manpower development plan; and (iv) by December 31, 1990, take all necessary
measures to start the implementation of a metering program of all water
connections by December 31, 1993.
3.15 PWC will operate the Tarim water supply facilities as a sub-branch of
Saiyun, the main PNC branch in the region. This would allow for economies of
scale in accounting, billing and collection, and engineering functions.  PWC
intends to integraLe staff currently employed in water supply operations in the
project area into both the Tarim sub-branch and Seiyun branch. It has also been
PWC's policy to take over water facilities at the end of the construction period
when the new system becomes operational. During the construction phase, the
existing water companies in Tarim would continue to be responsible for the
provision of water to current customers. The proposed organization of the PWC
sub-branch in Tarim is provided in Annex 5. During negotiations, assurances were
received that PWC will adopt an administrative structure for its operations in
Tarim, acceptable to IDA, with adequately qualified staff. Agreement was reached
during negotiations with the Government that by December 31, 1994, the Tarim
Water Supply Company, of which the Government is a major shareholder, would enter
into an agreement for the transfer of a reservoir and related assets to PWC.
3.16  DGLG would be responsible for the implementation of the sewerage sub-
sector components (para 3.08). During negotiations, assurances were received
from the Government that DGLG will: (i) appoint, 'oy December 31, 1990, qualified
and experienced project officer to be responsible for overseeing implementation
of the sewerage sector component; (ii) by June 30, 1991, employ an expert
consultant to assist in carrying out the wastewater demonstration project and
assign qualified local staff to assist in the supervision of its execution; and
(iii) by June 30, 1991, appoint consultants to undertake the financing study and
update of sewerage designs.   Government agreement was also obtained on the
following: (i) by June 30, 1993, the conclusions and recommendations of the
financing and cost recovery study for sewerage services will be furnished to the
Bank for its review and comment; and thereafter the recommended measures as shall
have been agreed between the Government and IDA would be put into effect; (ii)
by December 31, 1994, DGLG would provide IDA with the report on the conclusions
of the wastewater disposal demonstration project; and (iii) the training programs
for DGLG and COCA staff would commence by December 31, 1991.
Procurement
3.17  The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.3
and further details of procurement packages are provided in Annex 6.



16
Table 3.3: PLhutment h AM.N
Procurement  d    Total
IC8   Othet roi
Poeet Conent                -------- (S Mlln)-
1. Construction of Boreholes  0.82   -        0.82
(0.67)    -      (0.67)
2. Construction of Water    7.33     -        7.33
Mains, Reservoirs and    (6.24)    -       (6.24)
Pumping Stations
3. (a) Materials _or Secondary    1. 8  0.41  2.29
Pipelines, Reservoirs  (1.70)   (0.41)   (2.11)
& Administrative Center
(b) Construction of Secondary  -  1.34      1.34
Networks, Reservoirs and  -    (0.00)    (0.00)
Administrative Center
4. Operational Equipment      -      1.17     1.17
and Water Meters            -     (1.07)   (1.07)
5. Wastewater Disposal        -      0.54     0.54
Demonstration Project       -     (0.38)   (0.38)
S. Training and Technical     -      1.66     1.66
Assistance including        -     (1.53)   (1.53)
Construction Supervision
Total             10.03     5.12    15.15
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts, in S million equivalent, to be
financed by IDA. 'Other" covers consultancy services and procurement of goods by international
shopping in accordance with IDA guidelines. as well as force account carried out by local
resources.
3.18   The project would be divided into two civil works packages to be awarded
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and one package to be implemented
by PWC under force accounit utilizing plant and materials procured through ICB
or international shopping procedures. The components to be procured through ICB
would be:
(i)   the construction of boreholes ($0.82 million);
(ii)  the construction of water mains,  reservoirs and pumping stations,
including supply of materials ($7.33 million); and
(iii) the supply of pipes, fittings and construction materials and eauipment
for the secondary distribution system and minor pipelines ($1.88
million).
Construction of the secondary distribution system and connections to adjacent
villages, minor reservoirs and the administration building would be carried out
by PWC under force account. PWC has the necessary trained workers available and
wishes to keep them fully employed. Since flexibility is required to schedule
those works which are small in size and scattered in location in order to avoid
disturbances in daily operation, their execution under force account is
justified. These works will be financed by the Government.



17
3.19  Operational equipnent and other miscellaneous goods under the project
estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract and not more than $1.80 million
in aggregate, would be procured through international shopping proceduires on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of price quotations from at least three
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. With the exception
of sand and aggregate for concrete, all goods and equipment for the project would
be imported. At the present time, there is no lomestic manufacturer of such
goods and equipment in PDRY. For bid evaluation, a margin of preference of 7.5%
would apply to domestic civil works contractors. Due to the limited capacity
of local general civil contractors, the major civil works contract is expected
to be won under ICB by a foreign contractor. However, for borehole drilling
local contractors could be competitive under ICB. All procurement documentation
for contracLs costing $100,000 or more will be subject to IDA's prior review and
approval. PDRY law requires that all tenderers submit tender security from the
National Bank of Yemen. Tenderers for works to be carried out under this project
would be permitted to submit tender security from the National Bank of Yemen or
any other bank acceptable to PWC. Consultants to be financed under the proposed
project would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursement
3.20  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against the cost of project
components which are described in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
Amount       X of Expenditures
Category                          (USS Million)     to be Financed
1.  Civil construction; supply                 6.30          100% of foreign and
installation of mechanical                              expenditures
and electrical equipment.
2.  Supply of operational                      3.00          100% of foreign
equipment, water meters                                 expenditures
distribution pipes, fittings,
construction materials and plant.
3. PWC training, technical assistance          0.70         100% of foreign
and construction supervision.                           expenditures
4.  COCA and DGLG Technical Assistance         0.80          100% of foreign
expenditures
5.  Unallocated                                1.20
Total                        ".00



18
3.21 Estimated quarterly disbursements of the IDA credit are based on the
standard disbursement profile of seven and a half years for projects in PDRY
(Annex 7). Though disbursement records for previous water supply projects show
an average implementation period of six years, the proposed project is expected
to be implemented over seven and a half years because of PWC's heavy investment
program during this period. Details of estimated annual project costs based on
the anticipated construction schedule are provided in Annex 8. The closing date
of the proposed project would be December 31, 1997.
3.22 In order to enable PWC to effectively implement the project and to make
prompt payments to contractors and consultants, a Special Account would be opened
at the National Bank of Yemen to which IDA will make an initial deposit of
$550,000. This is expected to finance IDA's share of eligible expenditures over
a period of four months. The account would be denominated in US dollars and
replenished against withdrawal applications on the basis of standard
documentation for eligible reimbursable expenditures. All disbursements under
the project would be made against standard documentation except for contracts
below $20,000 equivalent, which would be claimed under Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs), with related documentation retained for review by IDA missions.
Land and Miscellaneous ReqAuirements
3.23  PWC has the right of way for its water supply systems.   The proposed
borefield and reservoirs will be located on land owned by the Government. PWC
is allowed full use of Government land for implementation of utility services.
An existing reservoir and other minor assets forming part of the present water
supply system would be incorporated into PWC's assets by the time the new water
supply system in Tarim becomes operational (para.3.15).
Proiect SuDervision
3.24 Two IDA supervision missions per year staffed by a sanitary engineer and
a financial analyst have normally been sufficient to supervise PWC's activities.
However three annual supervision missions have been scheduled during the initial
three years of PWC's major capital expansion phase (1991-1993).  A low-cost
sanitation expert will accompany supervision missions during the early stage of
the wastewater disposal demonstration project (1991-1992), followed by one
mission per year thereafter which is deemed sufficient. Detailed supervision
forecasts are presented in Annex 9.
IV. THE BENEFICIARIES
4.01 PWC would be the major beneficiary of the proposed credit. The Government
would retain $0.80 million of the IDA credit of $12.00 million equivalent to
finance the foreign costs of sewerage studies, the wastewater demonstration
project, and training for DGLG and COCA. The balance of the credit of $11.2
million equivalent would be onlent to PWC (para. 3.13).



19
Public Rater Corporation
4.02 PWC was established as a national water supply authority under Law No. 19
of 1970. At that time, PNC assumed operation of the former Aden Water Authority
which was responsible for the provision of water to Greater Aden and Al Mukalla,
the two largest cities in PDRY. PWC is subject to the provisions of Law No. 13
of 1979 entitled the "Law Organizing Public Corporations" which outlines the
principles governing the organization, responsibilities and authority of public
corporations. In addition to the development and operation of all urban potable
water schemes in PDRY, PWC is mandated to provide technical assistance to other
agencies for developing potable water schemes in rural areas. At present, PWC
supplies water to nearly 650,000 consumers located in urban and major rural
population centers (para. 1.14). PWC is required to generate revenues sufficient
to cover operating expenses as well as a portion of its capital investment
program (paras.5.02).
4.03 Over tne next decade, PWC will provide services to more than 400.000 new
consumers ila order to keep pace with urban growth. This amounts to about a 60X
increase over the current number of customers PWC serves (Figure 3). A number
of    significant    capital
investment   projects   are
coming on stream or beginning
their  construction  phase:
the Greater Aden Second Water
Supply Project (Crelit 1739-         PWC PRODUCTION, SALES AND CONNECTIONS
YDR), the Al Mukalla Water   |         l
Supply Project (Credit 1944-- 1
YDR), and the Laboos Water  I             ,
Supply  Project  which  is i            -
financed by the OPEC and Arab       __
Funds.   While PWC has the
absorptive capacity to carry
out these construction and
technical assistance programs       so
in accordance with existing         40 -
implementation    schedules,        30 
20
continued attention needs to
be placed on modernizing and         a            -
streamlining management and           IM ise IM M 4M 101 IM -M 1        1 7 1"8
administrative  capabilities   VAT CT4            _A mum         gm CM4ECTIWGC).
and strenghtening operations
and maintenance to improve
PWC's  overall  efficiency,
while ensuring that prudent
financial    policies    are  Figure 3
maintained. In addition to
the  initiatives  currently
being  carried  out  under
Credit 1739-YDR and Credit 1944-YDR, the proposed project aims to institute
further operational efficiency improvements and strengthen PWC's managerial
capabilities (paras. 4.05-4.08).



20
4.04 PWC Ogganization ana Manafement. PWC is a semi-autonomous organization
under the tutelage of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals. The General Manager
of PWC is also Chairman of the Board of Directors and is appointed by ministerial
decree. There are eight other members of the Board who are employees of PWC and
who represent various activities and departments inside the Corporation. The
Board is responsible for the preparation of PWC's five-year investment program,
as well as annual budgecs and accounts which are submitted to the Government for
approval. The General Manager is responsible for implementing decisions taken
by the Board and for the day-to-day operations of the Corporation. In addition
to the appointment of the General Manager and other departmental directors, PWC's
operational budgets, investment programs, tariff levels and borrowings are
approved by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and the Council of Ministers.
A study of PWC's organizational structure was carried out under Credit S-21-
YDR and its recommendations were implemented by Ministerial Decision No. 16 in
1981. PWC's organizational chart is provided in Annex 10.
4.05 PWC recognizes that efforts are required to improve its administrative
and commercial operations, particularly during the forthcoming years of
expansion. There are two initiatives currently being carried out under Credit
1944-YDR to improve PWC's managerial and administrative capacities. The first
is the installation of a computerized billing and accounting system at PWC
headquarters, including an assessment of utilizing computer based systems for
administrative activities such as payroll and personnel. The second activity
under way is a financial study aimed at assessing the adequacy of step water
tariffs, the ability of water consumers to pay and the price elasticity of water
consumption. It will also propose action plans to improve meter reading and the
billing and collection of water bills. In addition, the study would establish
alternative investment scenarios and financial forecasts through the end of the
century.
4.06 The ptoposed project would complement these ongoing programs through the
provision of equipment and technical assistance to establish computerized systems
for management information and inventory control at PWC headquarters. This will
include the development and implementation cf: (i) purchasing procedures for
spare parts w'I a view to reduce the current level of inventory; and (ii)
information systems for record keeping and reporting requirements in the areas
of finance and administration.   This would assist in the monitoring and
evaluation of operational and financial data, the generation of financial and
other internal and external reports, as well as in administrative reporting
requirements, all of which are presently done manually.
4.07  PWC  Operational  Efficieney  Improvements.        Operational  efficiency
improvements being addressed under Credit 1739-YDR and Credit 1944-YDR,
respectively, include: (i) a leak detection program for the capital city of Aden;
and (ii) in Al Mukalla, the country's second largest city, programs to strengthen
system analysis and operation, detect and control water losses and improve the
water distribution system.
4.08 PNC is committed to further improve its operational efficiency. Under
the proposed project, an intensive three-year metering program would be
undertaken to meter connections at all of PWC's branches. Instead of a tariff
based on consumption by cubic meter, consumers (mainly households) that have



21
unmetered connections pay a flat fe6 per person for water usage, irrespective
of the amount of water consumed.   The metering of these estimated 15,OOC
connections and production facilities would encourage water conservation, lead
to more reliable data on water production and consumption, and would enhance
PWC's water sales revenues.  Particular emphasis would be given to meter the
existing water supply facilities in the towns of Gaar and Zinzibar in the Abyan
Governorate, and Tor Al Baha and Radfan in the Lahej Governorate which were taken
over by PWC at the end of 1988. About 4X of PWC's water sales are attributed
to these branches. The combined number of inhabitants served in these towns is
about 74,000. One of the main reasons for the 1988 increase in the level of
unaccounted-for-water from 25X to 28% is attributed to the integration of these
water supply systems into PNJC's operations.   A significant portion of the
population served in these towns is unmetered: only public and commercial
customers have metered connections in Tor Al Baha (about 90 connections); and
almost 80% of the population served in Abyan is not metered.
4.09  Personnel and Training.  PWC's staff has grown from 1,087 in 1987 to 1,328
at the end of 1989.   This exceptional staff increase was due to: (i) the
completion of the Seiyun Water Supply Project (Credit 1418-YDR) which serves
close to 60,000 inhabitants; and (ii) the takeover of existing water supply
systems in Gaar, Zinzibar, Radfan and Tor Al Baha. About 52X of PWC's staff are
located at headquarters in Aden, where water revenues equal about 75% of the
Corporatien's total saler.   PWC's staff includes 35 engineers, 18 college
graduates and 30 technicians. PWC has a nucleus of qualified and experienced
engineers though a significant number of professional staff still lack
experience. Under Credit 1038-YDR, PWC recrufted two advisers in engineering
and accounting who are  still employed.    It also  recently  redruited an
hydrogeologist adviser under Credit 1739-YDR. During 1986-1989, the Hungarian
Government financed three experienced engineering advisers. Salaries offered
by PWC are in line with those of other corporations, government offices and
industries and do not constitute a constraint to hiring and retaining competent
staff.
4.10 The staffing level in 1989 was equivalent to about 13.6 staff per 1,000
connections, which appears high when compared to a number of about 8 normally
found in similar water utilities in developing countries.   However,  this
comparison does not take into account the rugged topography and isolated
locations of several of PWC's smaller branches, or PWC's practice of integrating
currently employed staff into its operations when it takes over existing
facilities. PWC'S objective is to reduce the number of employees by attrition
to a targeted level of 10.4 staff per 1,000 connections by 1998.
4.11 During the past decaeB, through ongoing initiatives under IDA Credits,
substantial progress has been made in improving the overall capabilities of
PWC's staff. Major emphasis has been placed on providing overseas fellowship
training in technical and operational fields, and on improving on-the-iob
training in operation and maintenance for skilled ana semi-skilled workers.
Experts in management and administration, accounting, mechanical and electrical
engineering and hydrogeology have been recruited, most of whom have remained as
permanent employees of PWC. Since 1981, about 160 PN.C staff have received formal
and on-the-job training. The general level of experience in PWC has increased
substantially, particularly in construction supervision, where staff have worked



22
under the guidance of international consulting engineers.   In April 1987, a
training division was established within the Personnel Department of PWC. The
training advisor is responsible for organizing training courses in PDRY and
assessing individual training needs.
4.12 Under Credit 1944-YDR, the World Health Organization (WHO) financed a human
resource development study to assess PWC's overall manpower training requirements
and prepare a detailed program aimed at meeting training needs over the medium
term. Although the provision of training under ongoing IDA credits has been
beneficial, it has been carried out on an ad hoc basis. One of the objectives
of the above-mentioned study was to develop an integrated and comprehensive
package of training needs. The WHO report which was recently completed, made
general recommendations on training requirements, but did not identify a specific
training program beyond the end of 1990. Under the proposed project, PWC would
draw on the findings of the WHO study to design a five-year manpower development
program, including the preparation of an action plan for training. The program
would also assess the prospect of establishing a national training center.
Assurances were received during negotiations that PWC would commence a training
program, satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1991.
4.13 Billing and Collection. Water customers are billed on a rotating basis
every two months and a fixed charge for meter rental and maintenance is levied.
Bills are produced manually by PWC within four weeks of meter reading.   At
corporate headquarters, bills for the Greater Aden area are processed on
electronic accounting machines which are now obsolete. At other branches the
billing process is done manually.   A program to computerize billing and
collectioi. procedures is being carried out under Credit 1944-YDR (para.4.05).
4.14 During 1985-89, PWC's accounts receivable averaged about 4.3 months of
water sales. In 1988 accounts receivable increased to about six months as a
result of the takeover of four additional water supply systems; however, PWC
was successful in reducing accounts receivable to 4.3 months of water sales by
the end of 1989. A further reduction in accounts receivable to about 3.3 months
of water sales is expected once the computerized billing and collectior. system
is installed and operational.
4.15 Accounting Practices and Procedures. PWC's accounts are maintained on an
accrual basis and in accordance with standard public utility practices with the
following exception: PWC and other public enterprises are mandated by law to
set aside in a Capital Reserve Account the cash equivalent of their annual level
of depreciation (normally a non-cash expense).   This practice has tied up
significant cash reserves which could be used to meet PWC's full debt service
obligations and finance a portion of its investment program.   Most public
corporations have now accvaulated sireable funds in this account. Acknowledging
that an undue financial burden would be placed on most public entities, and
ultimately the consumers, if both debt service payments and depreciation were
remitted to the Government, public utilities have not met their debt service
obligations on subsidiary loan agreements signed with the Government in
connection with IDA credits. A.surances were received during negotiations that
PWC would be permitted to utilize funds from this account to pay its debt service
obligations under existing subsidiary loan agreements.



23
4.16 Insurance. PUC carries insurance coverage for fire damage, motor vehicles,
workers' compensation and third party liability. All civil works contractors
for the proposed project would be required to insure against accidents, civil
liability,  fire and property damage.   Government policy requires that all
insurance, including marine insurance, be effected through the National Insurance
Company.
4.17  Taxes.   Since 1984, all public corporations in the country have been
required to pay taxes equivalent to 85X of their surplus after covering operating
expenses, including depreciation and interest.   Law Number 9 of 1990 which
recently came into effect, now requires public corporations to pay taxes
equivalent to 70%. This high rate of taxation is compensated for by substantial
annual equity contributions from the Government towards PWC's investment program
(para. 5.09).
Directorate General of Local Government
4.18 The Directorate General of Local Government was established in April 1986
to assume the responsibilities of the former Ministry of Local Government. It
conducts its activities under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister.
Its main functions are to coordinate relations between the Local People's
Councils and the various ministries and state institutions, and to implement
government plans in the areas of social and rural development. It has a total
of 123 staff in eight departments: desert development, rural development, social
welfare, planning and statistics, municipalities and environmental health,
manpower, finance, and the Local People's Councils.   The municipalities and
environmental health department, under the Assistant Deputy Director General for
Municipal Affairs and Environmental Health, is responsible for planning and
construction of sewerage systems.
Central Organization for Control and Auditing
4.19 The Central Organization for Control and Auditing has existed since
colonial times when it was known as the Audit Department.   COCA is the
Government's independent auditing agency. COCA was established under Law No.
11 of 1982, and its functions were expanded to cover the auditing of all public
corporations. There are about 300 staff located at the corporate office in Aden
and regional offices are maintained in each governorate. In addition, teams of
internal controllers are seconded to government ministries and corporations,
including PWC.
Auditing Reguirements
4.20 Annual audits of PWC's accounts are carried out by COCA. COCA maintains
a resident office at PWC headquarters and interfaces with PWC staff on a regular
basis. Although past audit reports have been generally acceptable, to further
improve the quality of COCA's auditing practices and procedures, the proposed
project would include overseas fellowship training in selected accounting fields
(para 3.08). Assurances were received during negotiations that PWC's annual
financial statements would be submitted to IDA not less than five months after
the end of the year, and that annual audits of PWC's records and accounts,
including SOEs and the Special Account, would be submitted to IDA not later than



24
nine months after the end of each fiscal year.   In addition, agreement was
reached during negotiations that the annual audits of the records and accounts,
and resources and expenditures of DGLG and COCA with respect to the proposed
project, including SOEs and the Special Account, would be submitted to IDA not
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
PWC's Past Performance and Current Financial Position
5.01 PWC's income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements from 1986
to 1998 are presented in Annex 11.   The assumptions used in preparing the
financial projections are provided in Annex 12. Actual and forecasted water
production and consumption for each branch during 1986-98 are presented in
Annex 13.
5.02 Article 58 of Law No. 13 requires public corporations to ensure that income
is sufficient to cover all operating expenses and to finance a portion of their
capital investment programs (para. 4.02). PWG met this objective during 1986-
1989, and has been able to generate sufficient revenues to cover more than 10%
of its total capital investment requirements. PWC's operating ratio has remained
stable at 72% during this period in spite of the takeover of four existing and
inefficiei6tly operated municipal water supply systems during tne second half of
1988.   The consolidation of water supply facilities in the towns of Gaar,
Zinzibar, Tor Al Baha and Radfan lowered PWC's rate of return on average net
fixed assets in operation from about 12% in 1986 to 6% in 1989. At the end of
1989, PUC's estimated current ratio is 1.4 and the debt-to-equity ratio is a
satisfactory 23 to 77.  PWC's sustained good financial position through 1989
resulted from a steady reduction in administrative and operating expenses, a
substantial tariff increase in 1986, and the payment of debt service obligations
to finance capital investments which began only in 1985.  PWC's debt service
coverage ratio (after tax) for 1989 is a sound 1.3.   Projections for 1990
indicate that PUC will continue to generate sufficient revenues to cover
operating expenditures, debt service obligations, increases in working capital
requirements, and 10% of its 3-year annual average investment program. This is
in line with the financial discipline agreed to under the most recent IDA project
for Al Mukalla Water Supply (Credit 1944-YDR).
Tariffs and Financial Policy
5.03 PWC's policy is to set water tariffs specific to each of the governorates
in order to reflect the local cost of water production and consumption patterns.
PWC's current tariff structure is presented in Annex 13. In June 1986, a
significant tariff increase averaging about 40% was put into effect in Aden and
Al Mukalla. From 1986 through 1989, the average revenue per cubic meter sold
increased from YD 0. 164 to YD 0.199 (US$0.48 to US$0.58), or about 6.6% per annum
in real terms.   These tariffs, which are high compared to those levied in
neighboring countries, reflect the scarcity of water as well as the high cost
of development of water sources that are located at increasing distances from
consumption centers. As of the end of 1989, about 75% of the water produced and



25
sold by PWC is for the Greater Aden area, followed by Al Mukalla which accounts
for almost 91 of PWC's total water production and 8X of total water sales. Water
charges for the domestic users are progressive and provide for an equitable
distribution between different classes of customers. Government, industrial and
commercial consumers are usually charged a substantially higher tariff than the
highest domestic block of consumption.  This tariff structure promotes water
conservation while ensuring affordability to low-income households. Higher block
tariffs exceed the long-run incremental cost for providing water and are
therefore adequate (para. 6.08).
5.04 At present, water supply enterprises in the Tarim area administer their
own water supply systems and levy tariffs approved by local government
authorities.   Their revenues are barely sufficient to finance operation and
maintenance expenditures, and hence have been too low to provide for
rehabilitation or network expansion.   WhLen the new water  system becomes
operational in 1996, PWC will adopt a progressive tariff structure similar to
that applied in the Hadramawt Governorate (Annex 14). PWC will also introduce
connection charges and bi-montnly meter rental and maintenance fees similar to
those currently applied in the Hadramawt Governorate. At a discoant rate of 10%,
the highest block tariff per cubic meter of YD 0.440 in Tarim would exceed the
average incremental cost of such water supply, which is estimated at YD 0.319
per cubic meter.
5.05 In line with the Government's cost recovery policy, PWC has adjusted its
tariffs to finance all operating expenses and debt service obligations as well
as a portion of its investment program.   Under the most recent IDA Credit
Agreement (Credit 1944-YDR), PWC is required, on a consolidated basis, to
generate revenues sufficient to finance its operating and maintenance expenses;
increases in working capital (excluding cash); debt service obligations; and the
equivalent of not less than 101 of the three year rolling average of its capital
investments during 1988-1991 and 12X from 1992 onwards. In spite of the 1986
events which slowed down project implementation and a marked increase in the
annual level of planned investments during the 1991-1996 period, as well as the
takeover of several inefficient water supply facilities at the end of 1988, PWC
is expected to continue meeting its financial obligations over the medium term.
To supplement the administrative and operational efficiency gains expected under
the proposed project, an annual average tariff increase of about 14% would be
required by mid-1994 to satisfy the above mentioned financial covenants. This
tariff increase would raise the average tariff in 1994 to YD 0.227, and to YD
0.246 in 1995 (US$0.66 to US$0.71, respectively). Further adjustments to PWC's
tariff structure would be in line with projected inflation, and would reflect
the recommendations of the financial study being carried out under Credit 1944-
YDR.
5.06 PWC's financial projections are based on realistic implementation schedules
and take into account ongoing and planned initiatives to improve its operational
and managerial efficiency. These projections are in line with the Government's
cost recovery policy in the water supply sector and reflect the financial
discipline described in para. 5.05. During the forecasted period of 1990-98,
the volume of water sold by PWC is projected to increase by about 52%, while at
the same time, the systematic meter connection program and the expected reduction
in technical water losses would help decrease unaccounted-for-water from 28.5%



26
to about 24.42. During the same period, PWC is expected to increase its water
tariffs by an average of about 3.0X per year, or from YD 0.202 to YD 0.257 (US
$0.59 and US $0.74, respectively). PWC's operating ratio, though higher than
in the past, would remain acceptable at around 82X. During the forecast period,
total fixed assets in operation will almost double, from YD 44.30 million to YD
84.00 million.   The debt to equity ratio would remain low (averaging about
18:82), allowing PNC ample borrowing power for financing future capital
investments. The current ratio is projected to remain above 2.2, and the debt
service coverage (after tax) would not drop below 1.2. PWC's financial situatior.
during the project imple-entation period is expected to remain satisfactory.
5.07 During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that PWC
shall: (i) be allowed to take any action necessary to ensure that its revenues
will be sufficient to finance its operating expenses (other than depreciation,
non-cash charges, taxes and interest), net working capital increases other than
cash, debt service, and the equivalent of not less than 10 of the average of
its investment for the current year and the two following years during 1990 and
1991, and 122 for 1992 onwards; (ii) before November 30 of each year, on the
basis of reasonable forecasts, undertake a detailed review of the adequacy of
its revenues and provide IDA with a copy of such review; (iii) implement the
adjustments which would be required to meet its obligations under the project;
and (iv) not incur any debt, without prior agreement with IDA, unless estimated
net revenues are at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service requirements.
5.08 To supplement existing groundwater resources in the Greater Aden area,
NPC is expected to utilize the desalinated water to be produced at the Hiswa
Power and Desalination Plant (para. 1.07). The cost of desalinated water is much
greater than PWC's cost of water produced from conventional sources. Assurances
were received during negotiations that the Government would bear any losses
incurred by PWC from the purchase of desalinated water produced at the Hiswa
Power and Desalination Plant.
Financing Plan of PWC's Investment Program (1990-98)
5.09 The details of PWC's financing plan for 1990-98 are shown in Figure 4 and
Table 5.1.   In addition to the proposed Tarim Water Supply Project, PNC's
investment program includes ongoing operations in Greater Aden, Al Mukalla and
Laboos, and three water supply expansion and rehabilitation projects to be
carried out after 1995. During 1990-1998, PWC's net internal cash generation
would amount to about YD 7.2 million (US$20.9 million equivalent), representing
about 161 of its total financing -qequirements after payments of income tax
obligations estimated at YD 3.7 million (US$ 10.7 million equivalent). Borrowing



27
would amount to about YD 10.1 million
(US$29.3 million equivalent) from IDA for
the proposed and ongoing projects and
about YD 1.70 million (US$5.00 million                   R3 FIPaING PUN. I9WOO
equivalent) from the OPEC Fund, all of
which are onlent to YWC under subsidiary
loan  agreements.      Government  equity e
contributions to support PWC's investment
program would amount to YD 26.7 million
(US$77.4  million  equivalent)  and  are
funded as follows:  (i) a grant of about
YD 6 million (US$17 million equivalent)
from the Danish International Development                    aMM"
Agency;  (ii) Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund
concessional financing of YD 14.5 million
(US$42 million equivalent); and (iii)
Government budgetary allocations of YD
6.2 million (US$18 million equivalent).
It  is  worth  noting  that  PWC's  tax  Figure 4
obligations to the Government of YD 3.7
million are equivalent to about 60% of
the Government's direct contributions
during the 1990-1998 period.
TABLE _1: PUC'S FINANCING PLAN 1990-98
gm$n) CNSUIRE                       (Mittion Eaufvalent) Percent
Proposed Project                4.9      14.2   11%
Ongoing IDA ProJects            25.9     75.1   57%
Other Investments               11.6     33.6   25%
Met Increase in Working Capital  Aij    _j,U    .
Mtoa ReoMrfwo M= 
SSu OF amB
Gross Operating Income (before
Interest and Depreciation)    29.3     84.9   64%
Income Tax                     L 37)    t10.7)  t8X)
Not Operating Income          25.6     74.2   56%
Less: Debt Servfce           (18.4)    ¢53.3)  f40
Net Internel Cash Generation     7.2     20.9   16%
Borrowing: Proposed IDA Credit  3.9      11.2   9%
Existing IDA Credits    6.2     18.0   13%
Other Existing Loans    1 7             4 
Total Borrowing    11.8     34.2   26%
Governient Contributions        26.7     77.4   58%
Totnu aornces                   45.7    132.5    0



28
Monitorlg $system
5.10 The technical, operational and financial indicators to be used as a
benchmark for monitoring PWC's performance during project implementation are
described in Annex 15. PWC would submit to IDA: (i) quarterly reports on the
status of project implementation including above mentioned indicators; and (ii)
within six months following the closing date of the credit, a completion report
on the execution and initial operation of the project including its costs and
benefits.
VI. PROEBCT BENEFITS AND Ip_ACTS
Proiect Benefits
6.01 During its first year of full operation in 1998, the project would provide
piped-water to about 53,000 people in Tarim and adjacent villages, including
22,000 inhabitants at or below the poverty level. Water would be supplied to
the new urban development providing housing to some 4,800 inhabitants rendered
homeless by the floods which occurred in 1989. With some minor additional works,
PWC would be in a position to meet the projected water demand of the entire Tarim
region up to the year 2010, ultimately serving about 110,000 inhabitants. From
an intermittent service providing limited quantities of water of marginal or poor
quality, the water supply in Tarim would be upgraded to provide a continuous
service of potable water sufficiert to meet private and commercial demand.
Continuous pressure would eliminate the present danger of drawing contaminated
water oack into the network.  The project would also improve public health by
providing an adequate level of potable water for personal cleanliness and
hygiene.   Water would also be available to meet the projected demand of
commercial and small industrial users, thus removing an obstacle to the
development of these sectors.
6.02 At the corporate level, the project would improve PWC's operating
efficiency and managerial abilities through establishing appropriate management
information and inventory control systems, reducing unaccounted-for-water, and
designing and implementing a manpower development program. In addition, the
training program for COCA would help strengthen accounting practices which would
benefit PWC and other government agencies.
6.03 In the sewerage sector, the pilot wastewater project would demonstrate and
promote low-cost methods of wastewater disposal. Unsanitary conditions and the
danger of structural damage to mud-brick houses and buildings would be reduced,
and implementation of these low-cost methods may postpone the construction of
expensive conventional sewerage systems. The financial and cost recovery study
of sewerage services would help to define the institutional and financial
framework for developing sustainable sewerage operations throughout the country.
Finally, overseas training would improve the planning, management and operation
of existing and future sewerage facilities.



29
Environmental Impact
6.04 The proposed project is not expected to have any adverse impact on the
environment, but rather, to improve health and sanitary conditions in the Tarim
area. While the project would increase the use of water, which would in turn
increase the amount of wastewater requiring disposal, the pilot wastewater
project would demonstrate how disposal could be satisfactorily accomplished with
comparatively minor changes to current practices. This pilot project will also
examine the potential for productive use of the wastewater.   Environmental
conditions in the Tarim area and throughout the Hadramawt Valley are expected
to improve through the promotion of low-cost sanitation techniques.
Land Requirements _ad Reslettlement
6.05 All pipelines ard other structures involved in the project would be located
in existing road easements or unused public land.  No resettlement would be
required.
Poverty Impact and Affordabilitv
6.06 It is estimated that about 401 of the population of Tarim is at or below
the poverty threshold. By 1998, all households would be served by the project,
including about 22,000 inhabitants at or below the poverty level.   Project
expenditures directly related to the poor are estimated at $4.1 million, or 27Z
of total project costs.
6.07 The poverty threshold in Tarim town is estimated at about US$1,100 per year
for a family of six persons based on 1987 prices.  Monthly hcusehold water
consumption for the poor is projected at about 10 cubic meters. At current
tariffs levels, this would represent US$38 per year, or about 3.5% of the current
family income, and is considered affordable. Tariff levels for this lower income
group are not projected to increase in real terms.
Adequacy of Tariffs
6.08 The average incremental cost of water to be produced from the proposed
project is estimated at about YD 0.319 per cubic meter at an opportunity cost
of capital of 10%. Since this is lower than the highest block of the domestic
tariffs in the Hadramawt Governorate (Annex 14), tariffs are considered adequate.
Least-Cost Solution
6.09 The proposed project is the first stage of a longer-term program aimed at
providing water of sufficient quantity and quality to inhabitants living in the
Tarim region. The project scope, system capacity, and technical complexity have
all been maintained at the lowest viable level to ensure that cost is minimized
and that the project remains affordable.   An examination of alternative
arrangements for the water supply system, involving varying numbers and locations
of borefields, and various pipe sizes and materials, has shown that the proposed
project is the least-cost solution.



30
Internal Rate of Return
6.10 An economic rate of return was not calculated. However, a rate of return
has been estimated using incremental water sales at current tariffs as a proxy
for benefits over the estimated life of the project.  Costs include project
capital expenditures, replacement costs for mechanical and electrical equipment
and incremental operating costs. The rate of return equals 91, and is a minimum
indication of project benefits since the quantification of environmental and
health benefits is not possible. A reduction in benefits or an increase in costs
by 10 reduces the rate of return by one percent. A reduction in benefits by 101
combined with an increase in costs of 101 would result in a rate of return of
about 71.
Project Risks
6.11 This is the sixth major project to be undertaken by PWC with external
financing. PWC's performance under previous and ongoing IDA projects has been
satisfactory. The main risk associated with the proposed project relates to
pontential project implementation delays due to PWC's large expansion program
planned during the 1990s. In order to minimize such risks, consultants would
assist in construction supervision and a more intensive level of IDA project
supervision has been planned during the first three years of project execution.
Moreover, the ongoing and proposed technical assistance and training programs
should also further strengthen PWC's institutional capabilities. There are no
unusual risks associated with the DGLG sewerage sector component and training
for COCA staff. It should be noted that the unification of PDRY with the Yemen
Arab Republic could result in a reorganization of the water supply and sewerage
sector. However, it is not anticipated that this would significantly impact on
the scope or objectives of the proposed project or adversely affect its
execution.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01 During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(i) the project implementation program for DGLG and COCA (para.
3.16 and Annex 4);
(ii) by December 31, 1994, the Tarim Water Supply Company would
enter into an agreement for the transfer of a reservior and
related assets to PNC (paras. 3.15 and 3.23);
(iii) that PWC would be permitted to utilize funds from the capital
reserve account (depreciation fund) to pay its debt service
obligations under existing subsidiary loan agreements made in
connection with IDA credits (para. 4.15);



31
(iv) annual audits of the records and accounts, resources and
expenditures of DGLG and COCA, including SOE's and the Special
Account, would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.20);
(v) that PWC shall be allowed to take any action required to meet
its financial obligations under the project (para 5.07); and
(vi) that the Government would bear any losses incurred by PWC from
the purchase of desalinated water produced at the Hiswa Power
and Desalination Plant (para. 5.08).
7.02 During negotiations, agreement was reached with PWC on the following:
(i) the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement for
US $ 11.2 million to be entered into witlt the Government
(para. 3.13);
(ii) the project implementation program (para. 3.14 and Annex 4);
(iii) that a suitable administrative structure, including adequate
staffing for PWC's operations in Tarim would be adopted (para.
3.15);
(iv) annual financial statements would be submitted to IDA not less
than five months after the end of the year, and that annual
audits of PWC's records and accounts, including SOEs and the
Special Account, would be submitted to IDA not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year (para 4.20);
(v) PWC would generate revenues before taxes sufficient to cover
operating expenses, debt service requirements, increases in
net working capital (excluding cash) and at least 10% of its
annual average capital expenditures for the current fiscal year
and the next two following fiscal years in 1990 and 1991, and
12% thereafter (para. 5n07);
(vi) before November 30 of each year, on the basis of reasolable
forecasts, undertake a detailed review of the adequacy of its
revenues and provide IDA with a copy of such review (para.
5.07);
(vii) without prior consultation with IDA, no additional debt would
be incurred unless projected net revenues are at least 1.2
times PWC's projected annual debt service (para. 5.07); and
(viii) quarterly reports on the status of project implementation,
including the indicators described in Annex 15, would be
submitted to IDA (para. 5.10 and Annex 15).
7.03   The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PWC would be a condition of effectiveness.



32
7.04   Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters III
through V of this report and summarized in paras. 7.01 to 7.03 above, subject
to the condition of effectiveness set forth in paragraph 3.13, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of SDR 9.2 million (US$ 12.0 million
equivalent) to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. PDRY would onlend US$
11.2 million of the proceeds of the credit to PWC for a term of 25 years,
including 7 years of grace at an interest rate of 8%. PDRY would retain US$ 0.8
million equivalent to carry out the project components for DGLG and COCA.



PEOPLE'S DEMATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM MATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTED POPULTION. WATER CONSUPTION, PR00UCTIOI AMD RELATED INDICATORS
................................................................................................................................................................................................ ....... ...............................................................
Year                                          1iJ6      1997     1998      1999     2U00      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005     2006      207      2008      2009     2010
..................................... ......................................................................... ........ .............. .............................................. ..............................................................................
Population mid-year - Tarim                  40588    41919    43294    44714    4181    47695    49260    50875    52544    54268    56C48    57886    5985    6176    63771
Population - serviced villages                8791      9043     9302      9568     9841    35136    36141    37175    38238    39332    40457    41614    42804    44028    45287
Population growth rate -  Tarim CE             3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.3
Populatfon growth rate - villages CX)          2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9
Total population served (1)                  49379    50962    52596    54282    56022    82832    85401    88050    90782    93599    96504    99500   102589   105774   109058
Population comected                          16500    33000    52596    54282    56022    82832    85401    88050    90782    93599    96504    99500   102589   105774   109058
No. of comectiom                              2230      4459     7108      7335     7571    11193    11541    11899    12268    12649    13041    1344         13863    14294    14738
New cections                                  2230      2230     2648       228      235      3623      347       358      369       381      393       405      417       430      444
Domestic sales/person - Tanr (1/day)          76.6      77.8     78.9      80.1     81.3      82.5     83.8      85.0     86.3      87.6     88.9      90.2     91.6      93.0     94.4
Domestic sales/person - Villages (t/day)    52.4        53.7     55.0      56.4     57.8      58.7     59.6      60.5     61.4      62.3     63.2      64.2     65.1      66.1     67.1
DOmestic saleso/faily (e3/mth)                12.3      12.5     12.7      12.9      13.1     12.3     12.5      12.7     12.9      13.1     13.3      13.5     13.7      13.9     14.1
Total douestic sales (W/yr)                    0.4       0.9      1.4       1.5      1.6       2.2      2.3       2.4      2.5       2.6      2.8       2.9      3.0       3.2      3.3
Total sales CM3/yr)                            0.6       1.1      1.8       1.9      2.0       2.8      2.9       3.1      3.2       3.4      3.5       3.7      3.9       4.1      4.3
Uawccointed for water (%)                     25.0      23.0     21.0      20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0
Production (W/yr)                              0.7       1.5      2.3       2.4      2.5       3.5      3.7       3.9      4.0       4.2      4.4      4.6       4.9      5.1       5.3
Avera   production (l/s)                      23.5      4.6      73.6      76.2     80.0    111.7    116.9    122.4    128.1    134.1    140.4    14.9    153.8    161.0    168.6
Peak production (0/.)                         35.3      69.9    110.4    114.4    120.0    167.5    175.4    183.6    192.2    201.1    210.6    220.4    230.7    241.5    252.9
(1) Asasuing second stage developent of the system is urdertaken by the year 2001.



34
ANNEX 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OP xEMEN
TARIM MMTER SUPPLY PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMTES
PROJECT COMPONENTS                      Local  Foreign    ,Total    Local  Foreien    Total
(Y.D. '000) ------    ------ (US'000) ------
A.  Wellfields
Supply of borescreens & casings       7.7      74.8     82.6      22.5    216.9    239.3
Drilling of boreholes                35.6    114.5    150.1    103.1    332.0    435.1
Supply & installation of pumps       30.7    296.1    326.8       88.9    858.4    947.2
Wellhead buildings                    3.3      14.3     17.6       9.7      41.4     51.1
Wellfield buildings                   5.3      22.9     28.2      15.5      66.4     81.8
Power supply to wells                22.5    217.7    240.3       65.3    631.2    696.5
Chlorinator supply & installation   1.9        18.6     20.6       5.6      54.0     59.6
Wellfield collectors
(400 mm Diameter 2223m)-supply    13.1       79.9      93.0      38.1    231.6    269.7
-laying    12.1      39.1     51.3      35.2    113.4    148.6
Wellfield storage                   12.2       52.5     ,647A    35.4   .152.1    187.6
Subtotal                        144.6    930.5   1075.2    419.2   2697.2   3116.4
B. Distribution and Storame
Supply of Main Transmission Pipe
500 mm Diameter 1430m              11.8     72.0      83.9      34.3    208.7    243.1
400 mm Diameter 1020m               6.0     36.6      42.7      17.5    106.2    123.6
300 mm Diameter 1590m               6.0     36.5      42.5      17.4    105.9    123.3
200 mm Diameter 5520m              12.2     74.1      86.3      35.3    214.9    250.2
150 mm Diameter 4790m               7.6     46.1      53.6      22.0    133.5    155.4
Laying of above items                64.7    208.2    272.8    187.4    603.4    790.8
Tarim reservoirs                     85.0    364.9    450.0    246.4   1057.8   1304.2
Supply distribution pipes            49.6    301.7    351.3    143.8    874.5   1018.3
Laying of previous items            216.5    154.9    371.3    627.5    448.9   1076.3
Minor reservoirs                   9J3.5       54.0    147.6    271.       156.6    427.7
Subtotal                        552.9   1349.1   1902.0   1602.6   3910.4   5513.0
C. PUC Com_onent: Miscellaneous
Tarim administrative sub-centre    49.3        28.5     77.8    143.0       82.6    225.6
Supply of operational equipment    16.9    162.9    179.7         48.9    472.1    521.0
Supply of domestic water meters    11.1    107.2    118.3         32.2    310.7    342.8
Subtotsl                         77.3    298.6    375.9    224.0    865.4   1089.4
Subtotal - Parts A to C:        774.8   2578.2   3353.0   2245.9   7473.0   9718.9
D.  Miscellaneous
Wastewater demonstration project   52.7    113.1    165.8    152.8    327.9    480.6
Training & technical assistance    11.4    232.4    243.8         33.0    673.7    706.8
Construction supervision             27.5    226.2    253.7       Z9.7    655.7    735.4
BASE COST (May 1990 Prices)   866.4   3149.9   4016.4   2511.4   9130.3  11641.6
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   96.9    322.3    419.1    2q0.7    934.1   1214.9             A
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     123.9    667.8    791.2    359.2  _1935.6   2294.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     1087.2   4140.0   5227.2   3151.3  12000.0  15151.3
-           --                          -_    -__



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
------------
PROJECT COMPONENT                              1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     1997
Construction of boreholes                            OOOOOO1I IIIIIIII 7I
Supply of pipes, valves and fittings                      0000 OOIIIIII IIIIIIII
Supply of construction plant & materials                       OOOOO0 II IIIIII
Main civil works contract                                 0000 OOIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII
Supply and installation of mechanical                     0000 OOIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII II
and electrical equipment
Construction of pipelines by PWC                                             III  IIIIIIII IIII
Construction of minor structures by PWC                                    IIIIII IIII
Supply of operational equipment & meters                       OOOOIIII II        OOOOIIII IIII  00 OIIIII
Technical assistance and training
Management assistance to PWC                      OOOOIIII IIIIIIII IIII
Wastewater demonstration project                  OOOOIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIII
Sewerage financial-study                          oOOO0 III IIIIIIII IIII
Sewerage design update                                      OOOOIIII IIII
Training                                                    IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII
Construction supervision                          00 OOOIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIII
000000     tendering period
IIIIII     implementation period
I     i



36
A 4
PUOMLE'S DEUI  AnIC REIJlLIC O  D
TaRm iNgA    mUPPLY P5. !CT
EFfXn3CT DNJ1D fMSS0"EFX34
A4StAon                                  Target                Rsqpa-ihble
am"L                 Autibarit
1.      Nedminate an officer to be
responsible for overseeing
Implementation of the                     December 31, 1990           DGL
sewerage sector component.
2.      Commence implementation of                 December 31. 1990           PWC
a 3-year metering program.
3.      Establish a Project
Implementation Unit with                  March 31, 1991              PWC
Terms of Reference and
Staffing acceptable to IDA.
4.      Appoint consultants for
construction supervision.                 March 31, 1991              PWC
5.      Appoint consultants to
establish inventory control               June 30, 1991               PWC
and information management
systems.
0.      Appoint qualified counterpart
staff to assist in the                    June 30, 1991               DGW
implementation of the waste-
water disposal demonstration
project.
7.      Appoint consultants for the
sewerage financial study,                 June 30, 1991               DGL
sewerage design update and the
wastewater demonstration project.
S.      Coemance PWC training program on
the basis of the Manpower                 December 31, 1991           PWC
Development Program.
3.      Commence DGW training program.             December 31, 1991           DGLG
10.     Commnese COCA training program.            December 31, 1991           COCA
11.     Provide IDA with the draft
report on the financial and                June 30, 1993              DOLG
cost recovery study on sewerage
services for review and coment.
12.     Provide IDA with a draft report
on the findings and conclusions           December 31, 1994           DGLG
of the Pilot Wastewater
Deomnatration Project.
13.     Agree on the value and arrangements
for PWC's takeover of assets               December 31, 1994          Govt. & PWC
from existing companies.
14.     Adopt an administrative structure
for TarIm Sub-branch acceptable           December 31, 1995           PWC
to IDA.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PWC Tarim Sub-Branch
Organization Chart
Sling ad  Sand Aand                               wL
Cok~~ion                        Mechanical
I~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                   I                  .    I
Ad ksbto
TaftTal
10n



38
POIPLZOS DEUAIIC REPMILIC QW
TMJn VSATER BMW!2 PESO=;
1. Construction of Boreholes                      ICa             IDA           667.4
PDRY         148.4
2. Supply and Installation of Pipelines,         ICa              MDA         6,254.5
Pumps, Reservoirs and Asasociated Equipment                    PDRY        1,088.2
3. Supply of Pipes and Fittings                  ICB              IDA         1,158.4
PDRY         180.2
4. Installation of Secondary Distribution                         IDA             0.0
System                                         Force Account   PORY          826.2
5. Construction of Administration Building                        IDA             0.0
and Minor Reservoira                           Force Account   PDR!          509.3
6. Supply of Construction Plant                  ICB              IDA           538.2
PM             0.0
7. Supply of Operational Equipment, Water         Shopping        IDA         1,065.5
Meters, (several contracts)                                    PDRY          103.5
8. Supply of Building Materials                   Shopping        IDA           408.9
PDRY           0.0
9. Construction Supervision                      Guidelines       IDA           758.6
PDRY          92.4
10. Consultants for Technical Assistance
A. Management Assistance to PMC               Guidelines       IDA          221.6
PDRY          10.4
B. Sewerage Financing Study                   Guidelines      IDA           221.8
PDRY          10.4
C. Sewerage Design Update                     Guidelines       IDA           92.4
PDRY            4.3
11. Wastewater Disposal Demonstration Project
A. Consultant                                 Guidelines      IDA           233.4
PDEY           0.0
B. Project                                    Shopping        IDA           142.5
Force Account   PDEY          166.9
12. Staff Tralning and Associated Equipment
PWC                                      Guidelines      IDA            98.6
PDER           4.7
DGLG                                     Guidelines      IDA            73.9
PDRY           3.5
COCA                                     Guidelines      IDA            64.1
PDRY            3.0
Tcb&il 



39
AM 7
nsus mngcA  BcN  CW
YARD VAU  WIlL  NW=T
IDAC  DI
IDA Fiscal Year               Quarterly      cumulative      X of Total
and Ouarter                 Disbursemnt  Disbursement       IDA Credit
--------US$ HilLion-------
FY 1991
First Quarter                 0.00               0.00           O.O0
Second Quarter                0.00               0.00           0.01
Third Quarter                0.55                0.55           4.65
Fourth Quarter                0.04               0.59           4.91
FY 1992
First Quarter                 0.24               0.83           6.91
Second Quarter                0.24               1.07           8.9S
Third Quarter                 0.24               1.31          10.98
Fourth Quarter                0.25               1.56          13.01
FY 1993
First Quarter                 0.54               2.10          17.5X
Second Quarter                0.54               2.64          22.0X
Third Quarter                 0.72               3.36         28.02
Fourth Quarter                0.72               4.08          34.01
FY 1994
First Quarter                 0.66               4.74          39.51
Second Quarter                0.66               5.40         45.01
Third Quarter                 0.66               6.06          50.5X
Fourth Quarter                0.66               6.72          56.01
WY 1995
First Quarter                 0.66               7.38          61.52
Second Quarter                0.66               8.04          67.0X
Third Quarter                0.66                8.70         72.5X
Fourth Quarter                0.66               9.36          78.01
FY 1996
First Quarter                 0.48               9.84          82.0Z
Second Quarter                0.48              10.32         86.02
Third Quarter                 0.30              10.62         88.5X
Fourth Quarter                0.30              10.92          91.01
FY 1997
First Quarter                 0.24              11.16          93.01
Second Quarter                0.24              11.40          95.01
Third Quarter                 0.24              11.64          97.01
Fourth Quarter                0.12              11.76          98.01
FY logo
First Quarter                 0.12              11.88          99.01
Second Quarter                0.12              12.00         100.01



PEOPLE'S DENOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNL PROECT COST BY COMEPONET lICLUDING CONTINGENCIES
YD '000
1991          1992          1993          1994          1995           1996          1997       Total
Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign
Supply of borescreenh and casings      4.5   44.1    4.6   46.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   9.1   90.5
Drilling of boreboles                 12.4   40.5   29.7   99.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   42.1  139.8
Supply and installation of pLws        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.8   80.7   28.3  296.2   4.2   43.9   0.0    0.0   40.3  420.8
Velthead buildings                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.6   12.3    1.8    8.5    0.0    0.0    4.4   20.7
welltield buildfngs and booster stations   0.0    0.0    0.6    2.8    2.0    8.9    2.7   12.5    1.1    5.2    0.3    1.4    0.0    0.0    6.8   30.8
Power supply to waells                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.9   90.5    9.8  100.9   10.1  105.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.8  297.1
Supply & installation of chlorinators  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0   10.6    1.6   16.6    0.0    0.0    2.6   27.2
Nain contract                         16.9   75.1   35.8  162.5   88.7  407.9   57.5  268.3   33.7  160.2   43.8  209.5  16.1   77.6  292.6 1361.1
Pipe supply contract                   0.0    0.0   11.8   74.7   12.3   78.4   38.1  246.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   62.2  399.6
Local pipe laying contracts (PVC)      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   53.5   40.2   55.4   42.2   57.0   44.3   58.7   45.9  60.5   47.6  285.1  220.2
Construction of minor reservoirs       0.0    0.0   39.1   23.4   75.1   45.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  114.2   69.0
Tarim adsinistrative stb centre        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   42.7   25.9   18.9   11.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   61.6   37.6
Supply of operational equipment        1.2   11.5    4.4   4.4    5.2   52.9   5.0   51.0    5.3   55.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.1  215.7
Supply of domestic water meters        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.9   69.6   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.8   82.4   14.6  151.9
Wastewater demonstration project      16.3   35.6   10.6   23.6   11.6  26.1    6.6   15.1    6.2   14.4    6.4   14.9   0.0    0.0   57.6  129.7   4-
Training and technical assistance      3.5   73.1    2.3   48.6    2.5   53.7    1.4   31.0    1.3   29.5    1.4   30.6    0.0    0.0   12.5  266.5   0
Construction supervision by consultant  0.0   47.5    2.8   49.8    3.0   52.2    3.3   54.8    3.5   57.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   12.6  261.7
Construction supervisfon by PWC        0.0    0.0    1.6    0.0    1.5    0.0    1.4    0.0    1.3    0.0    6.6    0.0    6.8    0.0   19.2    0.0
Total       54.7  327.5  143.4  575.4  313.7  951.9  207.9  914.6  151.5  791.8  124.7  371.2   91.2  207.6 1087.2 4140.0
Grand Total 52,Z2
US$ 000
1991          1992          1993          1994          1995           1996          1997       Tota&
Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Locat Foreign  Locat Foreign  Locat Foreign  Locat Foreign  Locat Foreign  Local Foreign
Supply of borescreens and casings     13.0  128.0   13.4  134.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.4  262.2
Dritting of borehotes                 35.8  117.5   86.1  287.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  122.0  405.2
SuppLy and instaltation of pumps       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.7  233.9   81.9  858.6   12.1  127.2   0.0    0.0  116.7 1219.7
Uetlhead buildings                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.6   35.5    5.2   24.6    0.0    0.0   12.9   60.1
wettfietd buitdings                    0.0    0.0    1.8    8.2    5.7   25.9    7.9   36.2    3.3   15.2    0.8    3.9    0.0    0.0   19.6   89.3
Power suppty to wells                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.8  262.3   28.4  292.3   29.3  306.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   83.5  861.3
Suppty & installation of chlorinators  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9   30.9   4.5   48.0    0.0    0.0    7.5   78.9
Main contract                         48.8  217.6  103.8  471.1  257.0 1182.3  166.8  77.6   97.8  464.3  127.1  607.3   46.7  224.9  848.1 3945.3
Pipe supply contract                   0.0    0.0   34.3  216.5   35.5  227.1  110.3  714.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  180.2 1158.4
Local pipe laying contracts (PWC)      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  155.0  116.6  160.4  122.3  165.3  128.3  170.2  133.0  175.3  138.0  826.2  638.2
Construction of minor reservoirs       0.0    0.0  113.2   67.9  217.6  132.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  330.9  200.1
Tarim administrative sub centre        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  123.6   75.1   54.8   33.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  178.5  108.9
Supply of operational equipnent        3.4   33.4   12.8  128.6   15.1  153.3   14.4  147.9   15.4  161.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   61.2  625.1  - 
Supply of domestic water meters        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   19.9  201.7   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.5  238.7   42.3  440.4 In 
Wastewater demonstration project      47.2  103.2   30.8   68.5   33.5   75.7   19.1   43.7   17.9   41.6   18.4   43.2    0.0    0.0  166.9  375.9 m re
Training and technicat assistance     10.2  212.0    6.7  140.9    7.3  155.5    4.1   89.7    3.9   85.6    4.0   88.7    0.0    0.0   36.1  772.5 
Constructic.ri supervision by consuttant  0.0  137.6   8.1  144.3    8.8  151.4    9.5  158.8   10.3  166.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   36.6  758.6   O
Corstruction supervision by PWC        0.0    0.0    4.6    0.0    4.4    0.0   4.1    0.0    3.7    0.0   19.2    0.0   19.8    0.0   55.8    0.0 °
TotaL      158.5  949.3  415.7 1667.9  909.3 2759.1  602.6 2650.9  439.3 2295.2  361.6 1076.0  264.3  601.6 3151.3 12000.0
Grand Total 15151.3



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YENEN
TARIM WATER SPPLY PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
YD '000                                                 US$'000
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total       1991   199Z   1W93 1U9W   IW    1W6   iW.  1otat
Supply of borescreens and casings     48.6   50.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   99.6      141.0  147.6   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  288.6
Dritling of borehotes                 52.9  129.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  181.9      153.4  373.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  527.2
Supply and instaltation of pmps        0.0    0.0    0.0   88.5  324.5   48.0    0.0  461.0        0.0    0.0    0.0  256.6  940.5  139.3    0.0 1336.4
Welihead buildings                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.9   10.3   0.0   25.2         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   43.2   29.8    0.0   13.0
Wellfield buiLdings                    0.0    3.5   10.9   15.2   6.4    1.6    0.0   37.6         0.0   10.1   31.6  44.1   18.4    4.8    0.0  108.9
Power suppLy to wetls                  0.0    0.0   99.4  110.7  115.9    0.0    0.0  3Z5.9        0.0    0.0  288.1  320.7  335.9    0.0    0.0  944.8
Su4pty & instaLtation of chtorinators  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   11.7   18.1    0.0   29.8        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.8   52.6    0.0   86.4
Main contract                         91.9  198.4  496.6  325.8  193.9  253.4  93.7 1653.7       266.5  574.9 1439.3  944.4  562.1  734.4  271.7 4793.4
Pipe supply contract                   0.0   86.5   90.6  284.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  461.8        0.0  250.8  262.7  825.1    0.0    0.0    0.0 1338.6
LocaL pipe taying contracts (PwC)      0.0    0.0   93.7   97.5  101.3  104.6  108.1  505.2        0.0    0.0  271.6  282.7  293.5  303.3  313.3 1464.4
Construction of minor reservoirs       0.0   62.5  120.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  183.2        0.0  181.1  349.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  531.0
Tarim adninistrative sub centre        0.0    0.0   68.6   30.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   99.1        0.0    0.0  198.7  88.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  287.3
Supply of operational equipment       12.7   48.8   58.1   56.0   61.2    0.0    0.0  236.8       36.8  141.4  168.4  162.3  177.4    0.0    0.0  686.3
Suppty of domestic water meters        0.0    0.0   76.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   90.1  166.6        0.0    0.0  221.6   0.0    0.0    0.0  261.2  482.8
Wastewater demonstration project      51.9   34.3   37.7   21.7   20.5   21.3    0.0  187.3      150.4   99.3  109.2   62.8   59.5   61.6    0.0  542.8
Training and technicat assistance     76.7   50.9   56.2   32.4   30.9   32.0    0.0  279.0      222.2  147.5  162.8  93.9   89.4   92.7    0.0  808.6
Construction supervision by consultant    47.5   52.6   55.2   58.1   61.0    0.0    0.0  274.4  M17.6  152.4  160.1  168.3  176.9    0.0    0.0  795.2 4
Construction supervision by PWC        0.0    1.6    1.5    1.4    1.3    6.6   6.8   19.2         0.0    4.6    4.4   4.1    3.7   19.2   19.8   55.8
Totat      382.2  718.9 1265.6 1122.5  943.4  496.0  298.7 5227.2    1107.8 2083.6 3668.4 3253.5 2734.4 1437.6  865.9 15151.3
OD



42
ANNEX 9
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA Fiscal Year                Staff Specialty                Staff Weeks
1991                    Sanitary Engineer                     7
Financial Analyst                    5
Sanitation Specialist                3
1992                    Sanitary Engineer                     7
Financial Analyst                    5
Sanitation Specialist                3
1993                    Sanitary Engineer                     7
Financial Analyst                    5
Sanitation Specialist                2
1994                    Sanitary Engineer                     7
Financial Analyst                    5
Sanitation Specialist                2
1995                    Sanitary Engineer                     6
Financial Analyst                    4
1996                    Sanitary Engineer                     6
Financial Analyst                    4
1997                    Sanitary Engineer                     6
Financial Analyst                    4
1998                    Sanitary Engineer                     3
Financial Analyst                    2



43              ANNEX 10
Is~~~~I
liP           III   I  _  _____
E                      I.    8   lE1SE
M ~~i  _______ii   IIiI
S~~~~A i Wif 
X  WESW!il



PEOPLE'S o0f0ATIC WIUBLIC OF YEMIE
PUBLIC  ThE  CORWIATIU
CONSOLIDCATED INCIE STATEEITS
Ffiat Tor Ending Oecder 31          196      196t      198B     1989      1990     1991       1992     1993       1994     1995      1996     1997      1998
....     ....      ... ..   ....      ....  .    ....     ....  .    ....     ....  .    ....    ....  .    ....    .......... ...................... ..
.----.ACTUAL------------- ESTIMTE   -----E-----------------------P R O J E C T I D
Water Pruiasd,                    28.85    29.21    31.55    35.70    36.99    37.56        38.45    40.53      43.28    45.8    4.13    50.2    5S3.14
_.mAcmd  for Water lX)              24.01    25.81    28.4X      28.4X    28.5$    2r.01      25.4      25.S     25.4X    2S.11    24.71r      4.8    24.X
Water Sold,                       u21.92    21.67    22.58    25.5s    26.45    27.42        28.61    30.18      32.27    34.14    36.22    38.09    40.20
Awrage Tariff 1DA/3                0.16     0.192    0.197    0.199    0.202    0.205        0.209    0.212      0.227    0.246    0.250    0.253    0.257
11_I of Service Lr                75,s13   81,015    6,260   97,46    107,409  112,010   116MA1   121,705   126,909  131.172  139.15   147,043  154.00
REVEILS                           ...................................................    TOA............................................
water Sates                        3,596    4,160    4,440      5,097    5,3S4    5,635      5,966    6,390      7,310    8,399    9,046    9,654   10,342
Meter Rental                         148      154       151       174      251      268        280      291        304      315       331      350       368
ew Coauectie                          53       61        62       241      26        107       118       125       141       121      260      224       251
Network Empwalsn                     210      444       240       146      1S0       1s5       165       174       182       191      201      211       222
Other RoeeMas                         35       40        40       21        22       23         24       26         27       28        30       31        33
TOTAL REVEES                    4,042    4,859    4,953    S,679    5,993    6,191        6,5S5     7,006     7,963    9,054    9,866   10,469   11,21S
OPERATING COSTS
............... c
1ag_, Salarles a lenef its           967    1,036    1,122      1,426    1,676    1,675      2,018    2,172      2,346    2,489    2,712    2,697    3,093
Ergy, Fuel & Chefsrats               788      878       915      97      1,001    1,055      1,122    1,092      1,361      651    1,806    1,968    2,142
Distribution 4 Maintnae              204      179       165       199      270      356        455       541       667      606       823        30      840
Administrative a Niscllates          213      324       291       311      354      356        364       433       S01      605       659       664      672
Provisimn for Bad Debt                15       19        19       22        26       27         28       30         32       37        42       45        48
.....    .....  .    .....  ----- .  . .....   -----  .   .....    .....   .  . .....  .....  .    .....  .....  . . ..... .... .. ... .. ... .. .................. ..
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS           2,187    2,436    2,512    2,929    3,326    3,468        3,966    4,268      4,906    S,588    6,043    6,403    6,M95
Inc=. Before Depreciation          1,8S5    2,423    2,441     2,750    2,667    2,523       2,569    2,738      3,057    3,466    3,823    4,066    4,420
Depreciation                         723    1,024    1,096      1,138    1,163    1,201      1,228    1,462      1,802    2,177    2,223    2,240    2,267
......... ...... ...... .........................................    .....  ......    .....    -----  2.....  2..2... 2....
IncMS Before Interest              1,132    1,399    1,343    1,6i2    1,504    1,322        1,341    1,276      1,255    1,289    1,600    1,8        2,153
Interest                            369       SSS       SSO      693       678      694        777      897      1,020    1,082    1,079    1,023        94S
Income Before Taxes                  73       844       793      919       827      628        564      379        235      28        521              1,208      a)
£cnSelTax..1/                        649      717       674      781       579      439        395      265        165      145       36S      562       86
NETINCONE                            114      127       119       138      24        188       169       114        71       62       156       241      363      ° 
__USUUUUU                          UUUU    *~3Uw    ==aU       suzu     suU        UU      Sam=      UUo=      VS=       *as=         3    =us=
Operating Ratio                     0.72     0.71      0.73     0.72      0.75      0.79      0.80      0.82      0.84     0.86      0.84      0.65     0.81
Rate of Return on Average Net
Fixed Assets (1)                  12.3      8.9       6.3      S.8       4.7      4.1        4.3      3.7        2.9      2.3       2.6      3.1       3.7
1/ The income tax rate for 196-89 of 851 was revised to 701 In accordne with LaW Nuber 9 of 1990.
OUCE: 1986-88 data based an Audit Reports, 1969 data provided by PVC.



PEOPLE'S DEMAOCRTIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PUBLIC WATER CORPOFATION
STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(YD THOUSAND)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1S92      193        1994     1995      1996      1997      1998
SOURCES OF FUNDS                     -.---     ----     -..        ----      --.--    -.---       ---       ----      ---.       .-- ..   ....      .         . ..
----------------                -------ACTU*AL.....ATA ........  ESTIMATE  .................. . ...........P R O J E C T E D----------------------------------------
OPERATING INCONE
(before depreciation and
after income tax)             1,206     1,706     1,865     1,969     2,089     2,084      2,174     2,473     2,893     3,321     3,459     3,504     3,574
... .    .. .   .. . .. ... ....... .... .....  ....  ..... . ....... .. .....             .. .-..    .   .....
BORROIING
Proposed Project                                      -         0         0       308        539       886       848       732       347       193         0
Other IDA Credits             1,237       881       693       391       496       866      1,424     1,361      1,176      674       192         0         0
Other Loans                     308       206         0         0        18       362        397       379        328      155        86         0         0
.....  -----  -----  -----   ....       ... .      .. .      ....       - -      - -       - -       - -       . .
Sub-total                  1,545     1,087       693       391       514     1,536      2,360     2,626      2,352     1,561      625       193         0
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION             1,839     2,976    3,Ti9    2,613       1,450    4,285       6,052     5,886     5,106    3,110        m          51         0
.......  .. ........   .....    .....    . ....  ...... ..----..  .....          -----    .....    ......  .........    .....
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS             4,590     5,769    6,337      4,973     4,053     7,905     10,587    10,985    10,350     7,992     4,857     3,748     3,574
......=                                          .==== ........====              =.- c3   =-===
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
......... ...... ......... c
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                                                                                                                                                        v,
Proposed Project                    -         -         -         0         0       390        683     1,121      1,073      926       439       24          0
Other Investments               3,157     5,263    4,425      3,004     1,964     5,431      7,730     7,391     6,385     3,745     1,639     1,240     2,040
Capitatized Interest              181        63        18         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                 3,338     5,326    4,443      3,004     1,964     5,821     8,412     8,512      7,457    4,671      2,078     1,484     2,040
DEBT SERVICE
Interest                          369       555       550       693       678      694         m7       897      1,020     1,082     1,079     1,023       945
Amortization                      673       673       757       869       869       941      1,013     1,130      1,226    1,252     1,181     1,181     1,395
~~~ ..... .  ......  . ....... - - - - - -  .....      -----.    -- -        - -       - -       - -       - -       - -
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                1,042     1,228     1,307     1,562     1,547     1,636      1,790    2,027      2,246    2,333      2,260     2,204     2,339
INCREASE (DECREASE) li WORKING      (21)    (501)       154       298     2,153       190        42       350        435       760       134      (311)    (452)
CAPITAL (ExcLuding Cash)
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS          4,359    6,053      5,905     4,864     5,664     7,647     10,244    10,889    10,138     7,765     4,472     3.377    3,927
. ... ... ... .... ..... ..         CZ===     3=o= 33     a33 =Z=== ===a=s                                 3         ==3=      =c=:,     ==* - *==33  =-===-
NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH       231      (284)      432       109    (1,611)      258       343        96        212       227       385       371      (353)
Opening Cash 8alanee              1,853     2,084     1,800    2,232      2,340       728       985      1,327     1,421     1,634      .861     2,245     2,616  
Ctosing Cash Balance              2,084     1,800    2,232      2,340       728       985     1,327      1,421     1,634     1,861       245     2,616     2,263         X
0o_
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (after tax)    1.16      1.39      1.43      1.26      1.35      1.27       1.21     1.22       1.29      1.42      1.53      1.59      1.53
SOURCE: 1986-88 data based on audit reports; 1989 data provided by PIC.
I_. I



PIJLIC WATER CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANE SNEETS
(VD THOUSAND)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31        1966       1987      1988      1989      1990       1991       1992      1993       1994       1999      1996      1997      199
*...ACTUA --AL----  ESTIKATE    ................PRO0J E  CT ED--------------------
ASSETS
Gross Fixed ASsets                   19,837    27.115    33.146    42,782    44,287    44,487      45,487    54,145     66.748    80,630    82,337    82.967    83.967
Less: Accumutlated  Wepeciation   (7,285)   (8,309)   (9,505)  (10.643)  (1,0)(13,007)   (14,235:. (15,697)   (17.499)  (19,676)  (21.900)  (24.140)  (26,407)
... .     . . .      . . .    . . .       . . .    . . .       . ..      . . .      . . .      - - -    - - -      - - -     . . .
Net Fixed Assets In operation       12,552    18,80      23,641    32,139    32,481    31,480      31.252    38,448     49,249    60,953    60,437    58,827    57,560
work in Progress                     11.876     9,925     8,337     1,7,05    2,164      7,78      15,197    15,051      9,905        695     1,066     1,920     2,960
...  .    . . .      . . .    . . .       . . .    . . .       . ..      . . .      . . .      . . .    . . .      - - -    - - -
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS               24.428    28,731    31,978    33,844    34.645    39,265       46,449    53,499     59,154    61,648    61,503    60, 74 7    60,520
... .      . . .     . . .     . . .      . . .     . . .      . . .     . . .       . . .     . . .     . . .     . . .     . . .
Inventories                          2,094     2,084      2,064     1,937     1,966     2,024       2,110     2,278      2,561     3,096      3,210     3,278     3,363
Accounts Receivable (Customwes)       1,507     1,468     2,224     1,824      1,928     2,029      1,910     1,917      2,047      2,352     2,533     2,703     2,896
Accounts Receivable (Other)            400        566       670       725       800        837        900       975        990      1,022     1,162     1.168     1.235
Less Bad Debt                         (141)      (160)     (183)     (201)      (211)     (223)      (236)     (252)      (289)      (332)     (357)     (381)     (408)
Capitat Reserve Account              1,227      1,477     1,427     2,565       398        412        572       817      1,081      1,231     1,172       813       231
Cash & Equivatent                    2,084      1,800     2,232     2,340        728       985      1,327     1,421       1,634     1,861     2,245     2,616     2,263
TOTAL CURtRENT ASSETS             7,171     7,236      8,434     9,190     5,628      6,064      6,584     7,155      8,023     9,230     9,964    10,197      9,579
TOTAL ASSETS                        31,599    35,967    40,412    43,034    40,273    45,329       53,033    60,654     67,177    70,878    71,467    70,944    70,099
auinrnnu.uuu  Cnuu~~~~~n~~   u~u~~   uuu:uuu  ~~~u~mn    s~~u~~:~   mun==u    cgfl~~~~u=~~    ~   zu.z=a   ~~~  24
EQUITY & LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                               0'
Capital                    ~~~~~~~1,296  1,296   1,620     1,620     1,620     1,620       1,620     1,620      1,620     1,620     1,620      1,620     1.620
Govermuent Contribution             15,926    18,902    22,357    24.970    26,420    30,704       36,756    47.642     47,747    50,858    51,631    51.682    51,682
Revaluation Reserv                     319        319       319       319       319        319        319       319        319        319       319       319       319
Retainoed Eamnings                     775        901     1,020     1,158      1,406     1,595      1,764     1,878       1,948     2,010     2,167     2,408     2,770
Total Equity                        18,316    21,418    25,316    28,067    29,765    34,238       40,459    46,458     51,635    54,807    55,736    56,028    56,391
Proposed IOA Credtti                                .         .         .                  308        848     1,734      2,582      3,314     3,660     3,639     3,425
Existing IDA Credits                 6,449      6,824     6,899     6,671     6,549      6,797      7,486     8,015      8,264     8,010      7,275     6,348     5,420
Other Existing Loants                 2,27      2,234     1.983     1,731      1,426     1,393      1,395     1.379       1,383     1,285     1,118,      865       612
Totat Long-Tens Debt                 8,728      9,058     8,882     8,403     7,97,      8,499      9,729    11,128     12,229    12,609    12,054    10,852      9,457
Customers' Deposits                    275        302       363       496       609        662        718       775        835        884       986     1,069     1,157
Accounts Payable                     2,863      3,014     2,806     2,154       983        917        997     1,067      1,227      1,397     1,511     1,601     1,699
Arrears to Govt.for Debt Service
A/P: Princfpal Repayments           744      1,418     2,175     3,044         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0         0
Current Maturities                     673        757       869       869       941      1,013      1,130     1,226      1,252      1,181     1,181     1,395     1,395
Total Current Liabilities            4,555      5,491     6,214     6,564     2,533      2,592      2,845     3,068      3,313     3,462      3,677     4,064     4,251
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES          31,599    35,967    40,412    43,034    40,273    45,329       53,033    60,654     67,177    70,878    71,467    70,944    70,099
UUUUCCUUU3SSinC@C.3.SCSOU  USaSM.   CUUCSS   CSCUSS   flSUC    803    SUUCUSU    ZUUW  COS~C    SCCC=  sCmsss   ccc~:c ss:ss~   crz:cs
Current Ratio                           1.6       1.3       1.4       1.4       2.2        2.3        2.3       2.3        2.4       2.7        2.7       2.5       2.3 
L.T. Debt to Equity Ratio           32:68      30:70     26:74     23:77     21:79     20:80       19:81     19:81      19:81      19:81     18:82     16:8..    14:86 
0 
SWACE: 1986-88 data based on audit reports; 1989 data provided by PWC.                                                                                                         P



47
AMIEX 12
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FTNANCIAL PROJECTIONS
WATER PRODUCTION AND SALES
1.    Details of water production, sales and number of service line connections
in Tarim for the period 1990-1998 are shown in Annex 1. Data on production,
sales and number of service line connections in other towns served by PWC appear
in Annex 13 and have been updated to take into account ongoing and planned
capital investments.
INCOME STATEMENT
2.    Water Sales Revenues.  A rise in average tariffs of about 14% is foreseen
effective mid-1994 in order for PWC to meet its financial objec'.ves. Tariffs
would be adjusted periodica:ly thereafter to keep up with general. inflationary
increases. The following revenues per m3 are forecasted over the project
implementation period.
Year             1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
Average Tariff   .:99  .202  .205  .209  .212  .227  .246  .250  .253  .257
(YD/me)
3.    Other Revenues.  Annual average meter rental fees are expected to rise
from  YD 1.8 in 1989 to YD 2.4 for 1990 and onwards.   These figures are
calculated on the basis of the annual average number of metered connections;
the cost of a meter would be amortIzed over five years.
4.    New connections are installed by PWC and paid for by its customers.  The
average installation of a new connection in 1988 cost YD 20.16, and is assumed
to increase by 5% annually in line with the historical trend.
5.    Revenues from network expansion are derived from major extensions to the
water distribution network (housing developments and government projects) and
are paid for by developers. Based on past experience and taking into account
the general ecinomic slowdown in the Gulf countries, it is assumed that the
network expansion program would slow down and remain relatively constant from
1989 onwards, increasing at only 5% annually. Miscellaneous revenues include
interest on deposits in banks and various fees levied for reconnection and
special maintenance activities.
Expenses
6.    On March 1, 1990, a general public salary and wage increase became
effective, and is expected to raise PWCIs salary and wages by about 35% annually,
or by 30% in 1990. Wages, salaries (promotions and merit increases) as well as
associated benefits are projected to increase by 5% per annum based on historical



48
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
trends. The average number of employees per thousand connections is expected
to decline from about 13.6 in 1989 to 10.4 in 1998.
7.    Energy, fuel and chemical costs are based on the anticipated volume of
activities, including additional savings which will accrue when the new
production capacity at Al Mukalla comes on stream in 1993. The cost per ton of
fuel oil in 1989 of 55 YD paid by the Public Corporation for Electricity and
Power was reduced to 36 YD per ton as of May 1, 1990. Hence the unit cost of
electricity charged to PWC of YD 0.043 per kilowatt hour in 1990 is expected to
remain the same until 1991 when energy and fuel costs are projected to increase
by 4X annually.
8.    Distribution and maintenance costs, as well as general administrative
expenses are estimated to average about 1% and 0.8%, respectively, of gross
fixed assets in operation.
9.    Depreciation is calculated at the average annual rate of 2.7X of the value
of gross fixed assets in operation.
10.   Interest expense is derived from disbursement and repayment schedules of
existing and proposed IDA Credits and other loans. Detailed data is available
in the Project File (Annex 16).
11.   As a public corporation, PWC is subject to income tax. The income tay rate
for 1986-89 of 85% was revised to 70% with Law Number 9 of 1990.
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
12.   Debt service is based on five IDA Credits, two loans from the OPEC Fund
and one loan from the Islamic Development Bank, all of which have been onlent
to PWC. A grant from the Danish International Development Agency and concessional
loans from the Arab and Kuwait Funds are being passed on to PWC in the form of
government equity contributions.
BALANCE SHEET
13.   Fixed assets are carried at historical cost on PWC's financial statements.
There are several ongoing projects which will be transferred to fixed assets -n
operation during 1990-98: the Greater Aden Second Water Supply Project, scheduled
for completion in 1995; the Al Mukalla Water Supply Project, scheduled to
commence operations in 1996; and the Laboos Water Supply Project whlich is
expected to become operational 'n 1996. The cost of these projects were updated
in line with the latest cost estimates and construction schedules.
14.   All inventory stock must be imported and requires a minimum lead time of
one year. The inventory level is projected to gradually decrease over the project
implementation period to a level sufficient to cover distribution and maintenance
needs and other consumables.
15.   About 801 of PWC's accounts receivable is from water customers; the
remaining balance consists mainly of advances made by the Government to PWC to
carry out major extensions to the distribution network. PWC bills its customers
every two months. Customer accounts receivable is projected to gradually decline
l



49                                ANNEX 12
Page J of 3
to 3.3 months of sales by 1994 when the computerized billing system is expected
to be fully operational.
16.   In accordance with government regulations for public corporations, PWC
maintains a Capital Reserve Account (or depreciation fund), a special account
into whiich PWC is mandated to place in cash, the annual equivalent of
depreciation. Funds from this account are utilized to: (i) meet debt service
obligations in line with loan and credit agreements entered into between PWC
and the Ministry of Finance; and (ii) finance replacement and rehabilitation of
assets as well as new capital investments.
17.   Cash and equivalent will be reduced progressively to reach about the
equivalent of four months of operational expenses, which is a sufficient level
for normal operations.
18.   Based on historical data, the average deposit for each new conrnection is
about YD 11.6 per customer. PWC refunds this deposit when the cus omer account
is closed.
19.   Accounts payable are estimated at about 3 months of expenses.



PEOPLE'S DENI0CRA IC REPUBLIC OF YEOEU
TARIN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DATA ON PIUCTION, CONOWPTION AND CONECTIONS BY IRNCES
Fiscal Year Ending December 31       1986     1987      1988      1989      1990     1991       1992      1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      198
--*---A  C T U A L-------  ESTINATE    ----P---------------------P R O J E C T E DC-----------O-----J-------------------------
A. WATER PRODUCTION, Ba/year
- Greater Aden                  23.70    24.58     25.79    26.56    27.43    27.56        27.72    28.62      29.56    30.52      31.52    32.55    33.62
*  kalla                         2.23     1.84      2.10      3.20      3.20     3.20       3.20      3.73      4.46      4.85      5.21     5.33      5.45
* Ghatl/Shihlr                   1.02     1.02      1.04      1.11      1.19     1.28       1.37      1.47      1.57      1.65      1.73     1.82      1.91
- Greater Selfym                0.00      0.00      0.48      1.27      1.38     1.50       1.64      1.80      1.93      2.06      2.18     2.31      2.44
* Tarim                          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.A0      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.70      1.50     2.30
* Nawtah/Dhala                   1.90     1.77      1.88      2.01     2.16      2.31       2.47      2.65      2.84      2.98      3.13     3.29      3.46
RadfanlTor Al Baha             0.00     0.00      0.21      0.87      0.92     0.97       0.92      1.07       1.24     1.31      1.37      1.44     1.51
Abyan                          0.00      0.00      0.05      0.67     0.71      0.74       1.13      1.19      1.22      1.26      1.30     1.34      1.38
Laboos                         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.45      0.95      0.99      1.03     1.08
-    -   ---       ---       ---       .....    ---        ---       .....      . ..     .....     .... .    .....    ..  .
Total ProductIon            28.85    29.21     31.55    35.70    36.99    37.56        38.45    40.53      43.28    45.58    48.13    50.62    53.14
.................    -----.  .....  ......    .....  ......  .. ...    .......  .....  ......    .....  ......    .....
B. WATER SALES, fr,/year
.....................
Greater Aden                  18.57    18.33    18.52    19.13    19.75    20.40         21.06    21.75       22.46    23.20    23.96    24.74    25.55
Nualla                         1.48      1.24     1.37      2.08      2.08      2.08      2.08      2.50       3.08     3.44      3.80      4.00     4.20           0
hGball/Shihir                  0.74     0.76      0.80      0.86      0.92      0.98      1.05      1.13       1.21     1.29      1.36      1.43     1.50
Greater Selyun                 0.00     0.00      0.31      0.97      1.02      1.12      1.23      1.35       1.45     1.55      1.64      1.73     1.83
- Tart.                          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.60      1.10     1.80
Naiwtah/Dhata                  1.13     1.34      1.41      1.51      1.62      1.73      1.86      1.99       2.13     2.28      2.39      2.52     2.64
- RadfawVTor Al Baha            0.00      0.00      0.14      0.57      0.60     0.63       0.60      0.69      0.81      0.85      0.89     0.94      0.98
Abyan                          0.00     0.00      0.03      0.44      0.46      0.48      0.73      0.77       0.79     0.82      0.84      0.87     0.89
Laboos                         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.34      0.71      0.74      0.77     0.80
... . .. ...       ---       ---       ---      .... .     ......    ..... .    ---      .. ....
Total Sales                 21.92    21.67    22.58    25.55    26.45    27.42         28.61    30.18       32.27    34.14    36.22    38.09    40.20
C. NMER OF SERVICE LINES
.. ........ .....
Greater Aden                 48,259   49,825   50,571   51,689   53,147   54,645    56,186   57,771    59,400   61,075   62,797   64,;68   66,389
M*ualla                      12,078   13,887   14,515   14,954   15,504   15,945    16,494   16,934    17,483   18,034   18,584   19,133   19.683
Ghall/Shthir                  7,914    8,536    9,117    9,573   10,051   10,554    11,082    11,636    12,218   12,584   12,962   13,351   13.751
* Greater Seiyun                   0         0     1,000    7,500    8,490    9,040        9,590   10,190    10,670   11,170   11,480   11,850   1:,200
-Tarim                             0         0         0         0        0         0          0         0         0         0    2,230    4,459    7,108
-Hlwtah/Dhala                 7,262    8,767    9,520   10,680   11,214   11,M          12,363   12,982    13,631   14,040   14,461    14,895   15,341
Radfan/Tor Al Baha                0        0     1,257    2,287    3,037    3,787        4,537    5,287       6,154    6,462    6,785      7,124    7,480
Abyan                             0         ,      300    1,000    5,966    6,264        6,578    6,906       7,114    7,327    7,547    7,773    8,006
-Laboos                            0         0         0         0        0         0          0         0       240       480    3,039    3,890    4,742
..... . . . ....... .. . ......   ......    ------.. ..... ------... .......  -------.  .. .....   -----   -----   -------  -------... -------
Total Nuber                75,513   81,015    86,280   97,683   107,409  112,010    116,831   121,705    126,909  131,172   139,885   147,043  154,700
~~~~~......   . .....   ......   ......   ... ...   ......   .. ...... .......   ......   ----   .......  ..... ..  ....... .
Aiial Additions               2,483    5,502     5,265    11,403    9,726    4,601       4,820    4,875       5,204    4,263    8,713    -,158    7,657
D. UlACCOUNTED FOR MATER  IX)        24.0X    25.8X     28.4X     28.4X     28.5X    27.0X      25.6X     25.5X     25.4X     25.1X     24.7X     24.8X    24.4X



51
ANIEX 14
F'MZ8 DESMATIC REPUlIJC OF mII
201H WATE SUPPLY PWEJT
PUBLIC uWm    CEA(  TARRIFF STRUCTURE   O CF MY 31. 1990
ADEN GOVlUNRATE
(Greater Aden)
Customer                          Usase Block                               Rate (YDZm3
Domestic                          First 2.7 m3 per 2 months                 Free
Up to 30 m3 per 2 months                 .066
More than 30 m per 2 months              .142
Industry                          ALL consumption                           .231
Government                        All consumption                           .293
Commercial                        All consumption                           .349
Foreign Residents                 All consumption                           .374
HADRAMAWT GOVERNORATE
(Al Mukalla/Seivun/Tarim)
Domestic                          Up to 20 m5 per 2 months                  .110
Over 20 m3 but less than 50 ma
per 2 months                          .220
Over 50 m3 per 2 months                  .440
Industry and Government           All consumption                           .330
Comercial                         Up to 50 m  per 2 months                  .440
Over 50 m3 per 2 months                  .660
Construction                      All consumption                           .660
IGhalLhbir
Domestic                          All consumption                           .220
Government                        All consumption                           .330
Construction/
Comercial                       All consumption                           .550
Domestic                          All consumption                           .275
Government/Comercial              All consumption                           .550
(RadfAn/Tor Al Daha)
Domestic                          All consumption                           .275
Government/Construction           All consumption                           .550
Unmetered Connections             Flat fee per person                       .200 per month
(Gaar & Ziniburl
Domestic (Unmetered Connections)
1-3 persons                              )                          .750 per month
4-6 persona                              )Flat                     1.250 per month
7-9 persons                              )Fee                      1.500 per month
Greater than 9 persons                   )                         2.000 per month
Industry
(metered connections)            All consumption                            .231
Government
(metered connections)            All consumption                            .293
Commercial
(metered connections)            All consumption                            .349



52
hARMI 15
PEOPLE'S DEMflCRATIC REPUBLIC OF Yl9EN
TARIH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS FOR FMC
IUDICATOR                          1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    19SS    l97    1998
I.  STAFFING                                                                                                                          !
Number of Employees1                1328    1358    1378    1413    1448    1489    1505    1562    1589    1616
Staff per 1000 connections          13.6    12.6    12.3    12.1    11.9    11.7    11.5    11.2    10.8    10.4
II. SYSTEM OPEr7NTI0N
Water sold 106M3/Year              25.6    26.5    27.4    28.6    30.2    32.3    34.1    36.2    38.1    40.2
Water Produced 106M3/Year           35.7    37.0    37.6    38.5    40.5    43.3    45.6    48.1    50.6    53.1
Unaccounted-for-Water, X           28.4    28.5    27.0    25.6    25.5    25.4    25.1    24.7    24.8    24.4
Power Consumption per M3
Produced (KWH)
* of Service Connections            97.700  107,000 112.000 117,000 122,000 127,000 131,000 140,000 147,000 155,000
* of Repairs
- Pipes
- Water Meters
Pipelines Replaced
- Length
- Diameter
III.   MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE
Operating Ratio (Z)                 0.72    0.75    0.79    0.80    0.82    0.84    0.86    0.84    0.83    0.81
Rate of Return                      5.8      4.7      4.1      4.3     3.7      2.9      2.3      2.6      3.1      3.7
Current Ratio                       1.4      2.2      2.3     2.3      2.3      2.4      2.7      2.7      2.5      2.3
Debt: Equity Ratio                 23:77   21:79   20:80    19:81   19:81   19:81   19:81   18:82   14:84   14:86
Debt Service Coverage               1.26    1.35    1.27    1.21    1.22    1.29    1.42    1.53    1.59    1.53
Average Tariff, YD/M3               0.199   0.232   0.205   0.209   0.212   0.227   0.246   0.250   0.253   0.257
Self-Financing Ratio (X)            10       10       10       12      12       12       12       12       12       12
Accounts Receivable
(Domestic Consumers)
i/Excluding those engaged in capital works.



53
AFNNNX 16
PEOPLE'S DEPXCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YE2DE
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SELECTED DtCIIENTS AVATIARILE TN THE PROJECT
A.  GENERAL RIPURTS MD DATA
AI.       Report entitled "Water Supply and Sanitation Sector", dated February 1989, prepared by the World
HeaLth Organization.
A2.       Law Number 9 of 1990 on Organizing Public Corporations.
A3.       Council of Ministers' decree related to civil servant salary increases effective March 1, 1990.
B. GENERAL REPaRTs. STUDIES AND TERMS OF REFERENCE REIATFD TO TE 
B1.       Feasibility Report entitled "Tarim Regional Water Supply Study", dated August 1989, prepared by
John Taylor and Sons (4 Volumes).
BZ.       Report entitled "Tarim Regional Water Supply Project, First Stage - Project Design", dated August
1988, prepared by John Taylor and Sons.
B3.       Report entitled "Evaluation and Institutional Study for Sewerage" dated September 1983, preparod
by John Taylor and Sons.
B4.       Draft report entitled "Human Resource Development in PDRY", dated Feburary 1989, prepared by WHO.
BS.       Terms of Reference for PWC's Project Implementation Unit.
36.       Terms of Reference for PWC's Management Information and Inventory and Control Systems.
B7.       Terms of Reference for a Wastewater Disposal Demonstration Project.
BB.       Terms of Reference for a Financing and Cost Recovery Study for Sewerage Services.
B9.       Terms of Reference for Updating of Sewerage Designs.
B1O.      Audit Reports for EWC. 1986. 1987 and 1988.
Bll.      Audit Reports for the Tarim Water Supply Company, 1986 and 1987.
B12.      Audit Reports for the Mishta Water Supply Company, 1987 and 1988.
313.      PWC's Final Accounts for 1989.
B14.      PWC's Financial Budget for 1990.
C.  SELECTED WNORK     PAPERS PREPARED BY IDA STAFF
Cl.       Details of PWC's long-term debt obligations.
CZ.       Details of PWC's capital investment program, 1990-98.
C3.       Details of projections related water consumption and the internal rate of return calculations for
Tarim.
C4.       Details of financial projections for PWC. 1990-98.



SAUDI ARABIA          --r--d
o' r YEMAEN  'J/                                                                                            )  ' 
ARAB    .' 
REP   4EPOPLE.S OEM.
REPP          1
.   YEMEN 7
.I; OUT      Gorf of Ad&A                                        ,  _
ETHIOPIA   '        SOMALLA                                                                J
:-- / 8 ,Xv ~~~~At FUJEIR /
RES ERO/
AtGOO /           / d
KHU EAIYA                                        J O F  YE LEN  O O D
lOON ~  HUSH      ARA 
WSHTA
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TARIM WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                   sERroR
oxADA KODA                                                                                                                      L  ' Proposed  Reservoir
BElT M/`HAR   HUSN                      APoposad Ten-nis  Pipetine
BIN OMAO   ~ 'IDIAR RAID                                                                                                                      Prspnsad W.llfield
'BIN AHMED                                                                                                                 U   Eoat,en Reaeon
T-ns ond Villages
) Cliff Fces-
,o   1   7  C m                      \                                      \                                                 _._ Intemohonol Doundorie-                                              ,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itenaionl,oud,ie
0        1                 ~~~~~~~~~~~2
KILOMETERS
NOVEMBER 191



