Page  1
September 8, 1997
H.E. Dr. Abdulkader Bajamal 
Minister of Planning and Development 
Ministry of Planning and Development 
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Re:
Tarim Water Supply Project
(Credit No. 2170-YEM)
Amendment to the Credit Agreement
Your Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Yemen 
and the Association dated February 6, 1991, as amended, and to the Project Agreement 
between the Public Water Corporation and the Association dated February 6, 1991.  
Pursuant to the letter dated May 28, 1997 from Dr. Jaffer Hamed, Deputy Minister for 
Planning and Development, we hereby agree to amend the Credit Agreement and Project 
Agreement as follows:
Credit Agreement:
1.
All references to the “Public Water Corporation” or “PWC” are changed to the 
“National Water and Sanitation Authority” or “NWSA”.
2.
The definition of “PWC” set forth in sub-paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 is 
changed to read:
“(a) ‘NWSA’ means the Borrower’s National Water and Sanitation 
Authority, established by Law No. 21 of 1997.”
3.
Section 5.01 (c) is amended to read as follows:
“Law No. 21 of 1997 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability 
of NWSA to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.”
4.
The disbursement percentages for Categories (3) and (4) of the table set forth 
in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement are revised to read “100%”.
5.
The first paragraph of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement is revised 
to read as follows:
“(1)
Preparation of a sector policy and strategy paper for water supply 
and wastewater sector reforms.”
6.
Paragraph (4) of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement is revised to read 
as follows:
“(4)   Preparation and carrying out of an action plan to improve 
financial management and computerization of NWSA.”
7.
In Schedule 3, Paragraphs 1, 3, 5 and 6 are deleted.  Paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 
is renumbered as Paragraph 1, and is amended to read as follows:
“1.
The Borrower shall during 1996 commence a training program, on the 
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, for the 
staff of 
NWSA.”
8.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 is renumbered as Paragraph 2, and is amended to read 
Page  2
as follows:
“2.
The Borrower shall, through NWSA, by June 30, 1997, employ the 
consultants referred to in Section II of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.”
Project Agreement
1.
All references to the “Public Water Corporation” or “PWC” in the Project 
Agreement are changed to the “National Water and Sanitation Authority” or “NWSA”.
2.
Section 4.01(a) is revised to read as follows:
“NWSA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition on 
a consolidated basis, as well as separate records and 
accounts for the Seiyun 
Branch of NWSA.”
3.
Section 4.01(b) is revised to read as follows:
“NWSA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements and those of 
the 
Seiyun Branch of NWSA (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not 
later than: (A) six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
certified copies of 
its financial statements and those of the Seiyun 
Branch of NWSA for such year; and 
(B) nine (9) months after the end of 
each such year, certified copies of, (1) its 
financial statements and 
those of the Seiyun Branch of NWSA for such year as so 
audited, and (2) 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof,  as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.”
4.
Section 4.03 is revised to read as follows:
“(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Seiyun Branch 
of NWSA shall produce for each of its fiscal years total revenues 
equivalent to 
not less than the sum of: (i) its total operating 
expenses; (ii) 
depreciation; and (iii) increases in its net working  capital other than cash.
(b)
Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Seiyun Branch  of 
NWSA shall, on the basis of realistic forecasts prepared by the 
Seiyun Branch of 
NWSA and satisfactory to the Association, review the  adequacy of its revenues from 
operations to meet the requirements set 
forth in the preceding paragraph (a) in 
respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the 
Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Seiyun Branch of NWSA would not  meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the fiscal years 
covered by such 
review, the Seiyun Branch of NWSA shall promptly take 
all necessary measures in 
order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
Page  3
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding other non-cash operating 
charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other 
charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end  of each 
fiscal year.
(vii)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than 
cash which could in the ordinary course of business be converted 
into cash within 
twelve  months, including accounts receivable, 
marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next fiscal year.
(viii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(ix)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction 
related to 
operations.
(x)
Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency  of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall 
be made on the basis 
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the 
time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on 
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Association.
(xi)
Whenever it shall be necessary to determine the amount of an 
expense of NWSA that should be attributed to the Seiyun branch for 
purposes of 
this Section, such amount shall be calculated pro-rata in 
accordance with the ratio 
of the revenues of the Seiyun branch to the 
total revenues of NWSA.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the confirmation on the enclosed copies of this letter and returning it to us.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ Tufan Kolan
    Acting Director
    Country Department II
    Middle East and North Africa Region \0c
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
/s/ Abdulkader Bajamal      
Page  4
    Authorized Representative
Date: October 2, 1997               
NATIONAL WATER AND 
  SANITATION CORPORATION
/s/ Mohamed Ahmed Al-Saeedi
    Authorized Representative
Date: October 2, 1997
