RESTRICTED
Report No. PU-89a
FILE C
This report is for offlcial use only by the Bank Group and specificaily authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibflity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVIELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
OF THE
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
MALI
RETURN TO
RECIIES  CENTER            CBOM  68.,
Box No, tG/ SC
May 17, 1972
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$         -NF511.6
MF1         = us$0.001954
MF0000,OOO - US$1 ,954
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 km   - 0.62 miles
1 km2 - 0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
BEPTCM             - Bureau d'Etudes des Postes et T&4lkcommunications
d'Oatre Mer (overseas Post and Telecommunication
Advisory Organization)
Carrier            - A system providing several channels through one
transmission mode
Channel            - Frequency band of a carrier system carrying telephone,
telegraph or data signals
CCITT              - Comite Consultatif International Teh41jhonique et
Ti4egraphique (International Telephone and Telegraph
Consultative Committee)
CAPTEAO            - Confe'rence Administrative des Postes et T5ldconninications
des Etats de L'Afrique Occidentale (West Africa Post
and Telecommunications Organization)
FAC                - Fonds d'Aide et de CoopE5ration (Development Aid
Agency of the French Government)
FCR                - Compagnie France Cables et Radio
HF                 - High frequency (3-30 Mhz)
ITU                - International Telecommunication Union
Mhz                - Megahertz
Nicrowave          - Radio system working at frequencies above 300 Mhz
but normally applied to systems working at frequencies
above 1,000 Mhz
Multiplex          - Part of the equipment in a carrier system -- see above --
which shifts and stacks the different circuits in the
frequency spectrum appropriate to the particular
carrier system
OPTM               - Office des Postes et Tle4communications da Mali
(Mali Posts and Telecommunications Office)
Telephone Stations - Locations where telephone instruments on direct
exchange lines or extensions are fitted
Telex              - Teleprinter Exchange Service
TIM                - Compagnie des Telecommunications Internationales du Mali
(International Telecommunication Company of Mali)
UAMPT              - Union Africaine et Malgache des Postes et Telecommunications
(African and Madagascan Post and Telecommanication Union)
VHF                - Very high frequency (30-300 Mhz)
VF                 - Voice frequency (300-3,400 Hz)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TiLECOMMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONFS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................ *..........*..*   i - ii
1.  INTRODUCTION          ............... .   , ...   . . .       ......   1
2.   THE ECONOMY AND THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  2.........too          2
The Economy .       ......    .. ..               a.......            2
The Telecommunications Sector                                         2
Existing Telecommunications Facilities...                             3
3 _HE PROJECT  .................................. ....
Cost of the Project 5 ............
Proposed IDA Credit  ..       ................      ........ Moo      6
Procurement      .      .   . . . . . .  .  . ....... . . . .. . . . . .  7
Disbursement  .........    . .7.... .0.                               7
Execution  .......   .....O.  ....to                                  7
4.   JUSTIFICATION  .................. 6........ ................          8
Demand for Local Telephone Service 8         ... ....O...             8
Demand for Long Distance Service  .6........         ........         8
Least-Cost Solution                    ....  ......O..                9
Internal Economic Rate of Return  ..........O* .......  ......        9
5.  THE BENEFICIARY   .                                                   10
Organization and Management  ...................10
Staff and Training  .*.*e. **.*..    ****a  ** ****e*..* ......      11
Accounting and Audit                     ....11 ...
Tariffs .     .........................12
6.   E-INANCES  ......                               ...........@@*'-@¢-*    '   **  13
Past  Finances            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  .  13
Finan c ing Pl an  .                                 .........01 5
Future Finances            . ..             .     ...17
7.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS         ....... . . ..............     19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. P. Bassole and J. G. Davis, who visited Mali in December 1971.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.    International Sector Table    - Telecommunications
2.    Organization Chart
3.    Existing Telecommunication Facilities
4.   Traffic Statistics
5.    The Project - Cost Estimates
6.    Construction Schedule of the Project
7.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
a.    Internal Economic Rate of Return
9.    Summary of Tariffs
10.    Telecommunications Department - Income Statements
11.    Telecommanications Department - Balance Sheets
12.    Telecommunications Department - Sources and Application of Funds
13.    Telecommunications Department - Notes and Assumptions on Financial
Statements
14.    Postal/Financial Department   - Financial Aspects
Lq.    Postal/Financial Department   - Income Statements
16.    Postal/Financial Department   - Balance Sheets
17.    Postal/Financial Department   - Sources and Application of Funds
Maps
1.    Open-wire Lines Network                - IBiV-3799
2.    Existing HF Radio Network              - IBRD-380O
3.    Telecommunications Program 1972-1975 - IBRD-3801



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TiiCOMMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICAT'IONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The project appraised in this report is the 1972-1975 tele-
communications rehabilitation and development program of the Office des
Postes et Telecommunications du Mali (OPTM), for which an IDA credit of
US$3.6 million is proposed.
ii.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be MF2,021
(US$4.3) million, of which US$3.1 million would be foreign exchange.
The proposed IDA credit would finance about 84% of the overall cost of
the project and would include US$0.5 million equivalent of local costs.
The remaining local costs would be financed from internally generated
funds.
iii.      The Borrower would be the Government of Mali, which would
relend the equivalent of the proceeds of the credit to OPTM at 71X per
annum for 20 years, including a four-year grace period, under a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to IDA. The works would be carried out by
OPTM under a project agreement with IDA.
iv.       Present telecommunication facilities in Mali, which are in poor
condition because of insufficient maintenance and plant replacement, are
in urgent need of rehabilitation and expansion. The four-year project
provides for rehabilitation and expansion of existing local networks,
expansion and modernization of local and long distance switching facil-
ities in the principal towns, and installation of a modern microwave
system on the Bamako-Segou-Mopti route. The expansion works in the
project give emphasis to the requirements of the regions and trade
centers where the country's economic and administrative activities are
concentrated.
v.        The findings of a project identification mission in February
1970 showed OPTM to have an unsatisfactory financial position. With the
aid of UNDP funds and with the Bank acting as executing agency, a study
of OPTM's problems was undertaken by consultants in May/June 1971, in
accordance with terms of reference prepared by the Bank. In the past
the Govermnent has not met its financial obligations to OPTM; in particular,
it has failed to pay its bills for telecommunications services. However,
it has now decided to take measures to establish OPTM on a sound financial
basis. Given the limited financial resources presently available, the
Government intends first to establish a satisfactory financial position
for OPTM's Telecommunications Department as from January 1, 1972, and then



- ii -
resolve the Postal/Financial Department's financial problems in accordance
with a plan satisfactory to IDA. Furthermore, as OPTM's funds are held
by the Public Treasury, the Government has decided, in order to ensure
that no delays occur in the execution of the project, to transfer funds
equivalent to that part of the project not financed by IDA to an independent
bank account outside Treasury control.
vi.       The project is technically sound and economically justified.
The internal economic rate of return is estimated to be at least 13%.
With the measures recommended, financial results are expected to be satis-
factory. All equipment except for small quantities of miscellaneous
materials to be financed under the proposed credit would be procured
through international competitive bidding.
vii.      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$3.6 million.



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUFNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1 . INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mali has asked IDA to help finance the 1972-
1975 telecommunication rehabilitation and development program to be
undertaken by the Office des Postes et T4JAcommunications du Mali (OPTM),
the entity responsible for all postal and domestic public telecommunica-
tion services in the country. The project proposed for IDA financing
provides for additional capacity in the local automatic exchange in Bamako,
new automatic exchanges in five provincial towns, the rehabilitation and
expansion of local networks, the expansion and modernization of long
distance switching facilities, and the installation of a modern microwave
system between Bamako, Segou and Mopti.
1.02      The estimated cost of the project is US$4.3 million equivalent.
The proposed IDA credit of US$3.6 million would finance all of the foreign
costs (US$3.1 million) and US$0.5 million equivalent of the local costs
(US$1.2 million). The remainder of the local costs would be financed
from internally generated funds.
1 .03     The Borrower would be the Government of Mali, which would
relend the proceeds of the credit to OPTM at 7V interest for 20 years,
including a grace period of four years.
1.04      The first contact with the Mali Government regarding the finan-
cing of a project for the telecommunications sector was made in 1969.
An identification mission composed of Messrs. M. V. Scoffier and J. G. Davis
was made to OPTM in February 1970. Based on the mission's findings, IDA
and the Government agreed that an in-depth study of OPTM's finances should
be made before consideration could be given to the financing of a project
by IDA. The study, financed by the UNDP with the Bank acting as executing
agency, was carried out in May/June 1971 by the French financial consultants,
Soci&t4 Fiduciaire de L'Est. The Government and IDA accepted the main
findings of the study and, following discussions in late September 1971
with Mali Government representatives in Washington, an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. P. Bassole and J. G. Davis visited Mali in December
1971. This report is based on their findings.



- 2 -
2. THE ECONOMY AND THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
The Economy
2.01      Mali, a landlocked country bordered by seven other African
countries (see Map 1), has an area of about 1.2 million km2 and a popula-
tion estimated at five million, growing at an annual rate of about 2.5%.
The northern part of the country lies within the Sahara Desert and is
sparsely populated. Most of the people Jive in the country's southern
half, 55% of them in the Savanna regions through which flow the Niger
River and its tributary, the Bani. Economically, the Savanna regions
are the most active, their income deriving from the cultivation of food
crops and from animal husbandry. Agriculture is the principal economic
activity of Mali. The industrial sector consists of a few manufacturi- 8
plants in Bamako, the capital, which has about 200,000 inhabitants.
The GIP per capita is US$56, one of the lowest in the world.  ri r:cioD
exports, which go mainly to neighboring countries, are rice, meat, 1iln,
groundnuts and cotton; of these, cotton and groundnuts make up one-third
the recorded exports, and cattle accounts for one-half.
2.02      Inadequate telecommunication service, particularly in the
Savanna regions where the population is concentrated and most of the
economic activity takes place, is an important gap in Mali's economic
infrastructure. The proposed project, which would establish the basis
for a good telecommunication network, would increase the efficiency of
transport and contribute directly to the development and integration a:
economic and administrative activities.
The Telecommunications Sector
2.03      Telecommunications in Mali date back to the former Federation
of French West Africa, when they were operated as a Government service
under the authority of the High Commissioner for French West Africa and
the governors of the various territories, Mali then being known as the
French Soudan. When the French Soudan, which became the Soudanese
Republic, joined with Senegal to form the Mali Federation in early 1959,
domestic telecommunication facilities were transferred to an autonomous
entity, Office des Postes et Tele'communications de la Federation du Mali.
Responsibility for international service remained with a French company,
Compagnie France Cable et Radio (FCR). Upon the break-up of the Mali
Federation in 1960, the domestic facilities in the territory of the
Soudanese Republic, renamed the Republic of Mali, were transferred to
the present entity -- Office des Postes et Tle'lcommunications du Mali
(OPTM). International facilities continued with FCR until 1965, when
they were transferred to Compagnie des Te'lecommunication Internationales
du Mali (TIM), a company jointly owned by the Government and FCR with
the Government having 65% of the capital.  With the exception of the
military, civil aviation, railway and broadcasting services, all of which
have their own telecommunication networks, OPTM provides all the domestic
telephone, telegraph and telex services and in addition operates the usual
postal services, a nationwide public checking account service and a savings
bank.



- 3 -
2.04      The telecommunications sector is unrder the overall direction
of the Ministry of Transport, Telecommunic' ;ns and Tourism.  The Ministry
is the licensing authority for the sector, _;ot control is exercised mainly
through ministerial representation on the Boards of OPTM and TIM. Invest-
ment in the sector is coordinated within the plan for national economic
development by the Direction Generale du Plan et de la Statistique, which
reports directly to the President of the Republic. The institutional
structure is discussed in paragraph 5.01.
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
2.05      As of December 1971, llali had 5,400 telephone stations of all
kinds, with a density of 0.1 per 100 population -- one of the lowest in
Africa. The domestic telecommunication facilities are in extremely poor
condition because of insufficient maintenance and plant replacement.
Quality of service is poor and fault rates are high. Long distance
circuits on the main routes are congested and there are long waiting
periods before calls can be made. Domestic long distance traffic is low
in relation to international traffic (see Annex 4).  The very limited
expansion which has taken place in recent years has not been entirely
satisfactory; this is exemplified in the Bamako urban area, where the
installation of exchange plant has been made without the corresponding
cable network. Contributory factors in this situation have been OPTM's
lack of experienced technical staff and limited financial resources,
particularly foreign exchange for the purchase of imported maintenance
spares. The existing facilities are briefly discussed below. Details,
including traffic figures, are given in Annexes 3 and 4 (see also M4aps 1
and 2).
a) Local Telephone Service
2.o6      Mali has one local automatic exchange, located in Bamako, con-
sisting of 2,000 lines of step-by-step R6 equipment and 1,000 lines of
Pentaconta common control equipment. In the capital, 1,906 direct ex-
change lines are presently in operation; 1,000 lines of the R6 equipment
are in poor condition and urgently in need of rehabilitation. Local
service outside Bamako is provided through 56 small manual switchboards
with a total capacity of 2,218 lines, of which 1,498 direct exchange lines
are in operation. Outside plant, particularly in the Bamako area, is
insufficient and in many cases in need of rehabilitation.
b) Long Distance Service
2.07      The domestic long distance network is based on the use of
copper and iron open-wire lines and HF radio. Bamako is connected to
Segou by a three-channel carrier and to Bougouni and Koulikoro by a one-
channel carrier of open-wire line route. Bamako is also connected by HF
radio links to Mopti and 32 other provincial towns.
c) Telegraph and Telex Services
2.08      Apart from minor connections to nine small torns in remote
areas, OPTM does not have a separate telegraph ne-twork and uses the
equipment provided on its long distance telephone routes for its tele-
graph service.  All towns whichi have public telephone service have
telegraph service.



- 4 -
2.09      OPTM has one 100-line telex exchange, located in Bamako, to
which 43 subscribers are connected.
d) International Services
2.10      OPTM's subscribers have access through the local facilities
to international telephone, telegraph and telex services provided by
TIM. These services are provided by direct HF radio circuits to Abidjan,
Accra, Conakry, Cotonou, Cairo, Dakar, Lome, Niamey, Ouagadougou, Paris
and Moscow.



- 5 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project comprises OPTM's 1972-1975 telecommunications
program, which aims at rehabilitating and expanding the principal local
and long distance facilities in order to improve the physical condition
of the network, eliminate congestion, improve the quality of service,
and meet present and anticipated demand through 1977. The project is
based primarily on a study carried out in 1965 by the Bureau d'Etudes des
Postes et Telcommunications d'Outre Mer (BEPTOM), a consulting and
advisory organization sponsored by the French Government. Because of
inadequate funds, OPTM has been able to implement only that portion of the
consultants' recommendations which relates to an extension of 1,000 lines
to the Bamako automatic exchange. The study was reviewed and updated by
OPTM in 1970 in consultation with IDA. The proposed project is compatible
with OPTM's available technical and financial resources and has been
selected from the remaining portion of the recommended expansion.
3.02      The project comprises the following main items:
(i) the rehabilitation of existing switching equipment, the
addition of 1,000 lines to the Bamako automatic telephone
exchange, and the replacement of mamual equipment in five
provincial towns by 1,300 lines of automatic switching
equipment;
(ii) the rehabilitation and expansion of existing cable and
subscriber distribution networks;
(iii) the construction of a microwave link between Bamako, Segou,
San and Mopti, with multiplexing equipment and trunk switching
equipment for 60 channels;
(iv) the rehabilitation of open-wire routes and the expansion by
VHF of spur routes originating from towns along the microwave
link;
(v) the employment of consultants for the detailed engineering,
procurement, supervision of project execution (see para. 3.09),
and reorganization of OPTM's accounting (see para. 5.09); and
(vi) the employment of a management expert to assist the Director
of Telecommunications (see para. 5.03).
Details are given in Annex 5.
Cost of the Project
3.03      The estimated cost of the project is US$4.3 million equivalent,
including a foreign exchange component of US$3.1 million. Details are
given below.



- 6 -
MF million            US$ million       % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Expenditurf
Local telephone service      104.4   319.5   423.9  0.204  0.624  0.828        19
Long distance service
Transmission equip.        195.8  1,007.4 1,203.2  0.384  1.969  2.353       55
Trunk switching equip.       1.5     15.3    16.8  0.003  0.030  0.033        1
Buildings                    160.5    28.5   189.0  0.313  o.o56  0.369         9
Vehicles, tools,
miscellaneous works         90.4     20.9   111.3  0.177  0.041  0.218
Detailed engineering           5.0     39.9    44.9  0.010  0.078  0.088        2
Management expert              -       48.7    48.7    -    0.5  o.u' :         2
Accounting consultants         o.6     10.3    10.9  0.001  0.020  0,021        I
Sub-total     558.2  1,490$ 2,048.7  1.092  2.913  4.005
Contingencies
Physical                    27.9     74.5   102.4  0.055  0.145  0.200        5
Price                       27.9      -      27.9  0.055    -    0.055        1
Total Project     614.0  1,565.0 2,179.0  1.202  3.058  4.260       10o
3.04      The cost estimates are based on those of similar projects in neigh-
boring African countries and take into account recent changes in currency
parities. A contingency of 5% on local and foreign costs has been provided
to cover unforeseen design and engineering modifications that might occur.
A further allowance of 5% on local expenditures has been included for possible
price increases. During 1966-70 prices for local materials and wages in the
telecommunications sector increased by 1 to 2% per annum. Given the recent
downward trend in international prices for equipment similar to that to be
used in the project, no price contingency has been included for imported
equipment. The low cost estimate for accounting consultants envisages that
the implementation of the accounting reorganization will be carried out by
OPTM with supervision from a technical assistance adviser (see para. 5.09).
The Government confirmed at negotiations that it intends to relieve OPTM of
customs duties and import taxes on all imported equipment for the project.
Annual capital expenditure for the project is shown in Annex 5.
Proposed IDA Credit
3.05      An IDA credit of US$3.6 million is proposed.  This would finance
84.5% of the total cost of the project, including 45% of the local expenditures
and the foreign currency component of US$3.1 million.



-7-
Procurement
3.o6      All goods and services financed by IDA would be procured through
international competitive bidding except for small quantities of miscella-
neous materials such as wood and other building materials, small tools,
utensils, gasoline, etc.  IDA financing would amount to about US$75,000
for these exceptions.
3.07      In 1969 and 1970 OPTM negotiated contracts with a French supplier
for the construction of five automatic exchanges for provincial towns at
prices which were high in comparison with those obtainable for similar
equipment procured under international competitive bidding. Down payments
on the contracts have already been made. During appraisal the Government
was informed that this equipment would not be eligible for IDA financing.
The Government has since informed IDA, however, that it has decided irrev-
ocably to cancel these contracts because, among other reasons, it does not
have the funds to complete the purchases. It has requested that the equip-
ment be included in the project proposed for IDA financing and be subject
to international competitive bidding. These exchanges are essential for
the project and have accordingly been included in it.
Disbursement
3.08      The proposed credit would be disbursed against the CIF cost of
imported equipment, the foreign cost of imported services, and 45% of the
cost of locally acquired goods and services.    The project construction
schedule is given in Annex 6 and the estimated schedule of disbursement
is shown in Annex 7. Any unused balance of the credit should be made
available, after consultation with IDA, for the purchase of additional
goods or services similar to those already procured under the credit.
Execution
3.09      OPTM does not have the technical expertise to prepare the speci-
fications or to supervise the execution of the main works. OPTM therefore
proposes to appoint consultants in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA to advise on the preparation of the bidding documnents
and contracts, to assist in bid evaluation, and to supervise the execution
of the works. Assistance would also be available from the resident French
technical advisers (see para. 5.04). The appointment of the consultants
is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
3.10      Construction of the main works would be carried out by the main
equipment suppliers under the consultants' supervision.  OPTM's staff would
be associated with this work in order to obtain training. Contractual
arrangements with the suppliers would also provide for training of OPTM's
staff in the maintenance of the equipment installed under the credit.
3.11      The installation and commissioning of all new plant is expected
to be completed by the end of 1975.



-
4. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The inadequacies of domestic telecommunication services in
Mali are outlined in paragraph 2.05. Within the limits of available
financial and technical resources, the project would provide modernized
and extended local and long distance facilities which would give a better
quality of service and meet the present and anticipated demand in the
regions of greatest economic activity. The salient features of the
project are the addition of 1,000 lines to the Bamako automatic exchange,
the construction of 1,300 automatic lines in five important regional
towns, and the provision of a new microwave link connecting Bamako with
the major towns of Segou and Mopti, the latter being the center of an
IDA-financed rice project. Failure to undertake the project woulI
hamper the development of economic and administrative activities.
Demand for Local Telephone Service
4.02      In Bamako the telephone demand represented by actual connec-
tions and registered waiting list has been increasing at about 8;: amnually
over the past three years. If distribution facilities were available,
present switching capacity in the Bamako exchange would be sufficient
to meet the growth at this 8% rate until the end of 197h. The project
includes the distribution facilities needed to enable the present
switching capacity to be utilized by that date. After 197h, with the
improved quality of local and long distance facilities and the availabilbj'Y
to subscribers of trunk dialling between the main towns, the growth of
telephone demand in Bamako is likely to increase to 10% per annum. The
proposed 1,000-line extension to the Bamako exchange in 1975, along with
additional distribution facilities, would be sufficient to cover demand
until 1977 and would line up with the next stage of expansion which
would be initiated in 1976.
L.03      Demand in the five provincial towns to be equipped with auto-
matic switching is growing at about 6% per annum. In light of the
experience in adjacent countries, the growth rate is expected to increase
to 10% per annum upon the introduction of a higher quality of service
and subscriber trunk dialling in 1975. Existing facilities are 83% filled.
The proposed expansion for the five towns should provide sufficient capac-
ity until about 1977.
Demand for Long Distance Service
4.04      Traffic and circuit requirement forecasts on the Bamako-Segou-
Mopti route were made in 1965 by BEPTOM and in 1971 by ITU. Both studies,
based on the trunk traffic per subscriber, forecast a 100% increase
in the traffic in the first year following introduction of automatic
operation and a 10% annual increase thereafter. This conclusion is
reasonable in light of the experience gained under similar circumstances



- 9 -
in other developing countries. The initial equipment of 60 channels
for the proposed microwave link should be sufficient to cover the esti-
mated traffic until 1977. Further capacity could be readily provided,
if needed, by adding multiplex equipment at relatively low cost.
4.05       The circuit requirements for the spur routes to be expanded
by VHF radio systems have also been determined on the basis of traffic
per subscriber measurements made by the consultants and OPTM and take
into account the demand for local service in the localities terminating
the routes. The procedures adopted for these calculations followed
accepted principles.
Least-Cost Solution
4.06       The choice of the microwave system for the Bamako-Segou-Mopti
route, as compared with the alternative, coaxial cable, represents the
least-cost solution after considering such factors as future subscriber
concentration, physical features along the route and future capacity
requirements. Similarly, the choice of VHF for the spur route expansion,
as compared with open-wire line, represents the least-cost solution
after taking into account ultimate required capacity.
41.07      OPTM decided in 1969 to have common control switching equip-
ment for its entire network and the fundamental plans for numbering,
routing, charging and transmission are based on this concept. In con-
tinuance of this policy, the addition to the Bamako exchange and the
automatic exchanges in the five provincial towns will be of the common
control switching type. Within the above framework, the size and timing
of the expansion represent the least-cost solution.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
4.08       A conservative estimate of the internal economic rate of return,
using present tariffs and December 1971 prices, is 13%. The expected
revenues attributable to the project were used as a measure of benefits.
Costs included construction costs, free of taxes and duties, and
attributable operating costs (excluding depreciation). Should revenues
and costs each vary +10%, the rate of return would be between 11% and
15%. Should a one-year delay occur in project completion, the expected
rate of return would be 12%. Details are given in Annex 8.



- 10 -
5. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization and Management
5.01      OP-M was established on November 29, 1960, as a Government-owned
entity with a 10-member Board of Directors under the chairmanship of the
Minister of Transport, Telecommunications and Tourism. The chief executive
officer of OPTM is the Director General, who is appointed by the Government
and has overall responsibility for the administrative, technical and finan-
cial activities of the entity. OPTM's organization is divided into four
departnents -- Postal/Financial, Telecommunications, Administration, and
Accounting -- each of which is headed by a director responsible to the
Director General. An organization chart is given in Annex 2. The Posta-V
Financial Department carries on the usual postal services and a country.ywidn
public checking account service. The savings bank facilities are operateu
as a separate unit under the direction of the Director General.  This o  - I--
zational structure is satisfactory and in line with that of similar ern;    v
in other French-speaking African countries.
5.02      The statute that created OPTM gives it an industrial and coii-r
mercial character and endows it with legal personality and financial
autonomy. However, OPTM has not been able to enjoy the degree of financia-l
autonomy accorded it by its statute because the Government has not fulfilled
its financial obligations to OPTM and also because OPTM is required to bank
with the Public Treasury, on which it has had to rely for funds to carry outi
its operations.  The consequences of this situation are discussed in para,z<rai.-s
6.03 and 6.09.
5v.03     The Director General is a man of long experience in the postal ana
telecommunication services; his basic training was in the postal service. Th:,
Director of the Telecommunications Department was trained in the French
national telecommunications school in Paris and has six years' experience in
telecommunication operations. The divisional engineers have been traimned in
various Eastern European and North African telecommunication schools. During
negotiations it was agreed that OPTM would employ a qualified and experienced
expert, acceptable to IDA, for a period of three years to advise the Director
of Telecommunications on organization and management. The Government intends
to request the services of the expert from UNDP. However, to cover the even-
tuality that the aid might not be forthcoming from UNDP, a sum of US$100,000
has been included in the credit to cover the cost of the required services.
It was agreed that if the expert is made available by UNDP, the credit would
be reduced accordingly.
5.04      There are six French technical advisers working in the posts and
telecommunications sector in Mali. Four are assigned to OPTE -- one as
adviser to its Director General, one as adviser to the chief financial officer,
and two to the radio division. The other two technical advisers are attached
to the National Posts and Telecommunications School, which is operated under
the Ministry of National Education. Three technical advisers from bilateral
or multilateral iources will be required to advise and train counterpart staff
on day-to-day operations in the specific fields of switching, transmission and
local networks for the project construction period and two years thereafter.
The French Cooperation Services in Paris (FAC) indicated that assistance would
be provided by the French Government if a request were received from the Mali
Government. During negotiations the Government agreed to obtain the required
assistance and make the appropriate request to FAC.



Staff and Training
5.05      As of December 19, 1971, the staff of OP2M's Telecommunications
Department totalled 632, or 117 per 1,000 telephones. This ratio is high
(see Annex 1) and is due to OPTM's manual operations and extensive use of
open-wire lines and HF radio. During the project period 13% of the staff,
most of them in the lower categories, will reach retirement age. Assurances
have been obtained that OPTM will review its staff requirements and that
there will be no increase in the present number of non-technical and admini-
strative operational staff until the review has been completed, analyzed by
OPTM and IDA at the beginning of 1974, and a satisfactory program established
for the implementation of any agreed changes.
5.06      OPTM does not have a training center within its organization.
Lower-level employees are recruited from the primary schools, and after a
period of training with OPTM to assure adaptability they are sent to the
National Posts and Telecommunications School for further training.  Inter-
mediate and senior staff are recruited from the high schools and given
wider on-the-job training before being sent to the National School and then
on to African regional or other telecommunications schools outside Mali.
For the future, OPTM has made a joint agreement with the Senegalese Govern-
ment, ITU and UNDP for use of the facilities of the African regional tele-
communications school at Rufisque, Senegal, which was established recently
by the Senegalese telecommunications authorities with ITU assistance.
Training is also given by French suppliers. While OPTK's training policies
are reasonable taking into account the small scale of operations, more
coordination may be required between the entity and the Ministry of National
Education, which is in charge of the local school, in order to improve the
curriculum and ensure that OPTM's future local training needs are adequately
met. Assurances have been obtained from OPTM that it will review the training
requirements of staff in each grade,consult with IDA on its conclusion at the
beginning of 197h, and establish a satisfactory schedule of training.
Accounting and Audit
5.07      OPTM's accounts, although reasonably well kept, do not provide the
information required for good financial oDntrol. Accounts showing the
separate operating results and financial position of each service (postal/
financial, telecommunications) are not produced. Stores, cost and general
accounting as applicable to a commercially operated telecommunication entity
is non-existent. There is no plant inventory, and the book value of assets
needs to be determined and apportioned between the postal/financial and
telecommunication services. Annual depreciation has not followed consistent
or commercial practice. Billing methods are adequate but collection pro-
cedures are weak.
5.08      Thus, a reorganization of OPTM's accounting is urgently required.
Accounting based on commercial principles and coordinated with efficient
budgeting and costing should be introduced in both the Postal/Financial and
Telecommunications Departments. OPTM has agreed to (i) establish before the
end of 1973, accounts showing separate operating results and financial posi-
tions of the postal/financial and telecommunication services as from January
1, 1972; (ii) record, value and where necessary apportion between these



- 12 -
services by June 30, 1973, all fixed assets as of January 1, 1972;
(iii) follow consistent commercial depreciation practices for its fixed
assets as from January 1, 1972; and (iv) establish by June 30, 1973, improved
c;:LIection procedures.
5.09      This accounting reorganization could be satisfactorily carried out
by OPTM's present staff, with some assistance from financial consultants on
design and implementation, provided that the present financial adviser (see
Tara. 5.04), whc has had considerable experience with OPTM, is retained for a
further period .  nC L3ss than two ysars.  The adviser wishes to stay on with
'PTYM, and FAC in Paris inelcated thi.t a request from the Mali Govenment for
9in axtension of assistanca rjould be approved. The proposed credit includes
a suTm to cover the sstimat-d Iopt or financial consultants.  During negotia-
tions, it was agreed that the cvn%inrlo1 employment of a qualified and experienced
financial adviser be a ccndition of effectiveness of the credit. In addition,
ass rances were obtained that financial consultants for the accounting -e3 -:.ati-
,ation will be employed in accordance with conditions satisfactory Lo j.
7.10      OPTM is required to esub,i. its accoints annually to the accounting
brwach of the Supreme Corrt :or approvLl.  Given the commercial nature of
tbalaconmunication upera tLons and as &xi aid to establishing correct principles
of accounting, OPT- has agreed to engage independent auditors satisfactory
'4o IDA for the audit of its accounts, and to submit certified financial state-
ments and the auditors' report within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. In view of the time needed to complete the accounting reorganization,
the audited statenenLs for FYs 197c and 1973 .will not be required to be sub-
izitted Lafrove T 30e S    197Ltr
Tariffs
5.11      OPTM's statutes empower the Board of Directors to establish tariffs
for its services on ths basis of propc-sals by the Director General. Present
taTffs are rv5mn!ar!.zaeU i: .  iex 9.  Although the tariffs are in line with
t.se .in the foi=er -ene7, West African territories, they are very high when
compared ,-rLth otxilar selv- ee   & hk.- developing countries.  (Local calls
are charged US140 in 1WaJ. as compared with US2¢-50 in most countries.)  Mali
generally follows the tariff policies recommended by the Union Africaine des
lcI tes et T9'leL. -1a                z (UA'',, od tZ.u Con.erence Administrative des
Postes et TAle"omm12nicat ans des Rta ._- de L'Afriq7ae Occidentale (CAPTEAGi t
In order to preeini.cse ebrupt chang,_^  !n reveanue which might affect OPTm's
Vi3bility, there -ii-ild d    no gen.raO  c!vai±go in tariffs for the time being.
However, during np-tiatlons it waa sg -ed that once reliable cost accounts
are available for +9s'ec.maricatir*  srices, a tariff review will be made iii
c.Jrnsultation iV *h T)  A  nr-ire the .fV- -re financial viability of the Tele-
comnmunications     E D: ,          L*'r   t    -ai:e and level that is in the
best interest of L'-3 d6valau,±Miul (bee para. 6.13).



- 13 -
6. FINANCES
6.01      The IDA project identification mission in February 1970 found
OPTM's overall financial position to be unsatisfactory. Given the
limited information obtainable from the accounts (see para. 5.07), the
Government and IDA agreed to the necessity for an in-depth study of
OPTM's past finances in order to identify the financial problems in each
field of its operations, determine the magnitude and origin of the problems,
and then see what steps the Government should take to resolve them. With
the aid of UNDP funds and with the Bank acting as executing agency, a study
was satisfactorily undertaken by French financial consultants (Societe
Fiduciaire de L'Est, Paris) in May/June 1971 in accordance with terms of
reference prepared by the Bank.
6.02      The principal work of the consultants consisted of analyzing
all accounts and main financial transactions of CPTM since its incorpora-
tion to establish the operating results and financial position of each
of its services (postal/financial and telecommunications) for each year
of operation through 1970 (see also Annexes 13 and 14). The main findings
of the consultants, set forth in paragraph 6.03 below, were accepted by
the Government and IDA. The Government is now prepeired, within the limits
of available resources, to take the necessary measures to put OPTM on a
sound financial basis.
Past Finances
6.03      The study showed that each year before 1968 both the Postal/Fin-
ancial and Telecommunications Departments operated at a loss. The overall
losses were as follows:
December   December    June       June       June      June
Period Ended:       1962       1963       1964      1965       1966      1967
-------------------- (MF million) -------------------
Deficit            215         254       101        117        129        83
From 1968, however, telecommunication operations have been profitable,
producing a surplus more than sufficient to cover continuing annual losses
from postal/financial operations. Although OPTM's statute requires the
Government to subsidize any overall annual deficit incurred by the entity,
during the pre-1968 period when OPTM was regularly incurring annual overall
deficits, the Government never fulfilled this obligation. Furthermore, the
Government has not settled its bills for telecommunications and other
charges; as of December 31, 1970, it owed OPTM MF1.9 billion (US$3.7 million),
including the pre-1968 operational deficits. OPTM has been able to continue
its operations only by being permitted to overdraw on its current Treasury
account and by utilizing private funds deposited in OPTM public checking
accounts. These overdraft facilities have also been needed to finance
limited development and the substantial working capital requirements
for postal money order transactions.   As a result of these



eirc.4Istancas, as of December 31, 1970, the OPIT overdraft with the
Traasury stood at F:I.7 billion (US$3.3 million) and balances due public
fMt~cking account depositors were MF1-4 billion (US$2.7 million).
6.04      The Government has now decided to make suitable arrangements
for settling its past debts with OPTM, including the pre-1968 operating
deficits, and to take steps to avoid recurrence of the present situation.
TI> also proposes to take the necessary measures to assure adequate liquid
'i-king capital for OPTIs operations.  With regard to the Telecommunica-
tions Department, these measures can most appropriately be accomplished
from January 1, 1972, the start of the project period and the date from
ch audited financial statements are expected to be available.  The
:ar.angements for the Postal/Financial Department, which has larger working
sapital requirements, would require additional time.  Specifically, the
Government has agreed to:
(i) Regularize its past telecommunication debts to December 31,
1971, and OP41's pre-1968 telecommunication deficits by se ;
them off against the balances due the Treasury by OPTM's-
Telecommunications Deparunent.
(ii) Assure that OPTM's Telecommunications Department will
have adequate working capital.
(iii) Pay promptly all telecommunication accounts rendered to
it a- from January 1, 1972.
(iv) Subsidize any future annual deficits of the Postal/Financial
Department as from January 1, 1972.
(v) Submit to IDA for approval, and subsequently implement a
plan agreed upon by QPTH and IDA to settle the pre-1968
defictts 1/ of the P!ytsta]/Financial Department and to
restore that department to good financial order.
During negotiations the Government agreed that item (i) above would be
a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
6.o5      Estimated Income Statements, Balance Sheets and Sources and
Applications of Fund Statements for OPMM's Telecommunications Department
"or the years 1969 through 1971 are given in Annexes 10, 11 and 12. The
Presentation in the following paragraphs concentrates on OPTM's telecom-
mnimcation operations; the main aspects of its postal/financial operations
are dealt with iri Anr,xx 16, with related tables in Annexes 15, 16 and 17.
I/ Postal/Financial Department deficits for 1968 through 1971 have been
transferred against telecommunication surpluses for those years.



- 15 -
6.o6       During the past three years OPTWs net income from telecom-
munication operations has been declining; annual increases in revenue
have been insufficient to meet additional operating costs. Estimated
rate of return on telecommunication net fixed assets fell from 14.2%
in 1969 to 8.4% in 1971. In the same period telecommunication operating
ratio increased from 74 to 83. A contributing factor in the deterioration
in performance was the loss of telephone revenue suffered in 1970 and
1971, when the Government decided as an economy measure to reduce the
number of official lines. The present high staffing level is also a
retardant to higher earnings (telecommunication staffing is discussed
in paragraph 5.05).
6.07       The book value of OPTM's gross telecommunication plant has
been estimated at MF2 billion as of December 31, 1971, and the net value
at MF1.5 billion. Given the poor condition of the facilities (see para.
2.05), this estimate of net value is probably on the high side. With
these values and after taking into account the measures outlined in
para. 6.04(i), it is estimated that the capitalization of OPTM's
Telecommunications Department as of December 31, 1971, was as
follows:
MF      US$       ,
|millio n
Equity                      1,633      3.2     81
Long-term debt  1/
Internal loan -             388      _       1
Total capitalization  2,021      3.9    100
-  =
On this basis the capitalization of the department would be satisfactory;
a debt/equity ratio of 19/81 indicates an ample margin for further
borrowing. Equity is a balancing figure between the estimated total
of net fixed assets and current assets and the total of long-term debt.
Long-term debt relates to a 20-year interest-free loan from the Postal/
Financial Department to finance the last extension to the automatic
exchange in Bamako and other miscellaneous plant and buildings. The
loan is repayable by 1990.
Financing Plan
6.08       OPTM's capital investment and working capital requirements for
telecommunications during the 1972-1975 period, along with the sources
from which they would be met, are summarized below. Forecasts of sources
and applications of funds are given in Annex 12.
1/ Excluding current maturities.



- 16 -
MF           US$           X
(million)
Requirements
1972-1975 Project                          2,179          4.3          90
Working capital                              244          0.4          10
Total requirements         2,423          4-7         100
Sources
Internal cash generation                  1,062           2.0
Less:  debt service                   241
surplus transferred to
Government (see para.6.14)    240   481            02.9
Net internal cash generation         581           1.1
Borrowings:
IDA Credit                              1,42            3.6          76
Total Sources                        4.7         100
It has been assumed that the proposed IDA credit will be relent by the
Government to OPTK at the present Bank lending rate of 714 interest for
20 years, including a four-year grace period.
6.09      OPTMVs banker, the Public Treasury (see paras. 5.02 and 6.03),
has extremely limited funds and in order to meet national budgetary require-
ments the Director of Treasury is sometimes forced to intervene in the
settlement of transactions affecting Treasury monies. Because of this
situation OPTM has occasionally found itself without the funds to meet
its commitments.  To ensure that no delays occur in the execution of the
project, the Government has agreed that funds equivalent to that part of
the project not financed by IDA, plus the cost of imported maintenance
materials, will be transferred quarterly in advance from OPTM's account with
the Treasury to an independent bank account outside Treasury control. To
further ensure there are no delays in the project, OPTM has agreed that no
capital expenditure in addition to that included in the 1972-1975 project
will be undertaken in any one year in excess of US$75,000 equivalent with-
out a financing plan approved by IDA.



- 17 -
Future Finances
6.10      Forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1972-1977 for
the Telecomrunications Department are given in Annexes 10 and 11; related
notes are in Annex 13. The main features of the telecommunication accounts
for the project period are given below. During the four-year period 1972
through 1975, telecommuications net earnings are expected to show satis-
factory progress; the operating ratio should show a slight improvement.
The financial position of the Telecommunications Department would be
satisfactory.
1972   1973   1974   1975
Net Income (before interest)   - ME million        128    141    162    196
Interest payable to Govermnent -    - do -         0.2    8.5   40.7  100.0
Transfers to Government          -    - do -        -      80      80     80
Operating Ratio - %                                 83     82      81     80
Rate of Return - %                                 8.8    9.9   11.0    8.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                                19/81  27/73  47/53  52/48
Current Ratio                                      3.8    4.1    4.1    3.0
6.11      The overall telecommunication revenue forecasts for the four-year
period through 1975 show an average annual increase of about 9%. The main
benefits to telephone revenue from the project are expected to commence in
1975, when the microwave link is brought into service. Telex revenue should
continue to increase by about 10% per annum. Telegraph revenue is expected
to remain relatively static until 1974 and thereafter decline.
6.12      Operating expenses (other than depreciation) have been projected
to increase at about 5% per annum to 1974. In 1975 when the main part of
the new facilities comes into service, higher maintenance expenses are to
be expected and a 10% increase has therefore been provided in the forecasts.
Only a slight improvement (from 83 to 80) is expected in OPTM's operating
ratio between 1972 and 1975; however, with higher revenue the improvement
should be more pronounced after 1975 and a ratio of 74 is expected for 1977.
6.13      The rate of return on OPTM's telecommunications net fixed assets
in operation is expected to average about 9.5% per annum during the period
1972 through 1975, increasing to 10.1% in 1977. However, the fixing of a
specific rate of return will only be possible when the accounts for tele-
communications and postal/financial services are effectively separated
and the assets inventoried and valued. During negotiations the Government
and OPTM agreed that (i) during the project construction period OPTM will
conrsult with IDA prior to any change in telecommunication tariffs;
(ii) immediately following the accounting reorganization a full tariff
review will be made; and (iii) unless otherwise agreed, a rate of return
of 10% per annum will be attained after FY1976.



- 18 -
6.14      Present forecasts indicate that in each year as from 1973 OPTM
would have surplus funds from telecommunication operations sufficient, after
meeting the requirements of the project, to permit a transfer of funds to
the Government. It is estimated that the total amount available for trans-
fer over the project period would be MF2L0 million, equivalent to 50% of
net telecommunication profits or a dividend of 3% per annum on Telecom-
munication Department equity. These transfers would be possible largely
because the financing arrangements of the IDA credit provide for IDA to
meet 45% of the project's local costs. In addition to the transfers, the
Government would receive MF1h9 million over the project construction period
as interest on IDA funds. 1/ During negotiations OPTM has agreed that
before transferring surplus telecommunications funds to the Government
it will ensure that there will be sufficient funds available, after making
the transfers, to assure the prompt implementation and efficient operation
of the project, and to provide for essential expansion after the Project
period.
6.15      In forecasting the Telecommunications Department's balance ;heets
through 1977, the arrangements set out in paragraph 6.o0(i) and (ii) fol
enabling the department to be financially self-supporting as from January 1,
1972, have been taken into account. On this basis the department's finan-
cial position is expected to be satisfactory during the project construction
period. Equity should increase by about 4% per annum over the four-year
period of the project and at the end of 1975 the debt/equity ratio would
be 52/48; this would still leave a margin for further borrowing. The
current position would be satisfactory.
6.16      The statute covering OPTM's financial administration treats the
question of future borrowing for the development of both postal and tele-
communication services jointly and provides that the debt service of the
whole entity in any one year shall not exceed 10% of the revenue for the
previous year. During negotiations, it was agreed that this general debt
limitation provision would be supplemented and OPTM agreed that the maximum
future debt service for telecommunications will be covered 1.5 times by net
telecommunication revenue (before charging depreciation but after transfers
of profits to the Government) of a 12-month period prior to the incurring
of new debt for telecommunications purposes.
6.17      As regards short-term  borrowing (including the use of public
checking account funds) for financing the normal working capital of tele-
communication operations, OPTM agreed during negotiations that this would
not exceed three months' telecommunication operating expenses (excluding
depreciation) for the preceding fiscal year or for any later 12-month
period, whichever is the greater.
6.18      OPTM does not provide for the insurance of its plant since, in
line with the practice in other French-speaking African countries, the
Government guarantees the entity's assets against direct loss. This is
acceptable since OPTM's assets have wide geographical distribution and
are therefore free from significant concentration of risk.
1/   The combined payments of surplus funds and interest would more than
compensate the Government for the estimated total deficit payments
(MF314 million) which it would be required to make for the postal/
financial services (see para. 6.o4(iv)) during the project period.



- 19 -
7.  AGREEMENTS AND RECONMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following
principal points:
(i) the employment of a qualified and experienced expert in tele-
communications organization and management (para. 5.03);
(ii)  technical advisers will be obtained for switching, transmission
and local networks, and a financial adviser will be retained
for the accounting organization (paras.5.04 and 5.09);
(iii)  the number of staff will be restricted, and staffing and train-
ing policies consistent with OPTM's development requirements
will be established (paras. 5.05 and 5.06);
(iv)  accounts will be reorganized, assets inventoried and valued,
consistent depreciation policies applied, and collection pro-
cedures improved by and from specific dates (para. 5.08);
(v) qualified and experienced consultants will be employed for
the accounting reorganization (para. 5.09);
(vi)  a satisfactory system of independent audit will be introduced
(para. 5.10);
(vii) a satisfactory review of OPTM's tariffs will be made
(paras. 5.11 and 6.13);
(viii)  adequate working capital will be made available to the
Telecommunications Department (para. 6.04);
(ix) the Government's accounts for telecommunication services as
from January 1, 1972, will be promptly paid (para. 6.04);
(x) Postal/Financial Department deficits as from January 1, 1972,
will be subsidized by the Government, and a plan for settling
the pre-1968 accumulated deficits and for restoring that depart-
ment to good financial order will be established and subsequently
implemented (para. 6.O4);
(xi)  funds equivalent to the costs of the project not financed by
the IDA credit plus the costs of imported maintenance materials
will be transferred quarterly to an independent bank account
outside Treasury control (para. 6.09);
(xii)  during execution of the project no additional capital expendi-
ture above US$75,000 per annum will be incurred without a
financing plan agreed with IDA (para. 6.09);



- 20 -
(xiii) unless otherwise agreed, a rate of return of 10% per annum
will be attained after FY1976 (para. 6.13);
(xiv)  no changes in tariffs will be made without consultation with
IDA (para. 6.13);
(xv) sufficient funds will be available for the project and future
essential expansion before any transfer to the Government is
made (para. 6.14); and
(xvi) limitations on long-term and short-term borrowings for tele-
communication operations will be observed (paras. 6.16 and
6.17);
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(i) the employment of qualified and experienced consultants for
the detailed engineering of the project (para. 3.09);
(ii)  the making of arrangements for the continued employrent of
a financial adviser (para. 5.09); and
(iii) the making of a satisfactory financial settlement for the
Telecommunications Department as of January 1, 1972
(para. 6.o4).
7.03      On the basis of the above arrangements, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.6 million.
May 17, 1972



K K K '   H                                                          &K&H 5
P                                       BPP  PP-h-PP   P B PPP'HPH
PHPPPP POOH  OHh-HPh-OPPOO  0000  BOO PP  Oh-pP B HPPp,-H.
5                       h- AOPP  0gP  PH  P PP                  ''<2 g 5PPH    H
P                      P 0                           PP*    9
H H p                          P    0 P  P H PP         PP
0                                 0-    o                -P          H
5    5             P                0 P      B                  HP    H
S                 0<0                                                              H
55
oh-HO  oHh-HO 00000 HOHOOHO   00   Oh-HOOP-OP 05
p  -                                        OOHHOOoh-PPG- HO 0000000 PH            H
K
OH S OH.PHOOO  r<,-o S OOOSp0 GpO OOOPHOPHOOH    H P
P P P000  0                                                                                           HOB
0 P PPPPP H                                                                                          OPOS
S
p poc    4P                                                                       0 h-         Hh-O
P P                    0              GPOSHPOHOHG-O 0-0-000000 H 0HPPO HO OH H 0O'&000 S Oh-HO .
H 0 P0 P P0                                                                                         0
O HOBO 000 I
h-pHHHOOO OH H O-OOOPHOHO- 0000 00000 000 HO h-OH
POP.0PHO 05H
O  P 0 0                               OHOHO 000000 -00000OOPOH  HOPHO HHOO 0 HOOHH-OOHOHOPh-O              545
Oh-: <                                                                                         OP       B H
5      '5  '5  '5S oo o5ooo
O5   H                            00000000 '0 H00 h-h-OP 00   -00 0 000   OOOOh-OOOOO    P
I  0       P
H B                                                                                    PH
P       54
54
0                           00    0    h-HP              0 00       P  0  0 P  HP   H           H
H HO.   H  0 0H0 0 00 000 h-OH.        Op H. Ph- p--Op H               PP
P o        -                       HOHOP  h-P hO OPOOP 000000  0001<  PP 000 0PHOO HOP HPO    P 0         H
.   -  <     .             .                          K
-     Pt
O         Ho        00   OHHh-OOHG-HOh-OG-OOOPOHO0H    H
H OPoG-oOOOHG- OHOOHOHOHO 0000 00000 HHGpHOHOh- oHO
OO0000OPO0OP HOOOHH000 0 0000 P0000 000000OPOH
S                         OH000G-HG-HO 0000000000  Oh-HO OPOOPOPO 00000000          K
S
5 PP P
HHHHH H P0 POPPPHHHBPP 0' 0000 00000
S 55      5 5405 5
H    H H      H                Ph- h-h-Ph-H  H.    h-O    PP  P
ohiO   P II  Phi''' So,,   00000000   H           OH
H    H H      H       00      h-H h-Oh-H h-HOOP- H   5
00  lOP  11110  I HOPPPPHPPPPPPHPP
T 901009-






ANNEX 2
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER I
POSTS & 
TATELECOMMUNICATIONS                          O
LGENERAL
INSPECTION
BOARD OF
|  AUDIT                         DIRECTORS
I SALARY                                                              TRASR
AMNSTRtATION rDIRECTO
C     R SECETRYENR| INTERNALC
TSINSPECTIONTI
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BUILINGS BN    
DIRECTOR                DIET                           DIRECTOR           --CHIEFl
OF                POSTS & FINANCIAL                    OF                     FINANCIAL
ADMINISTRATIONP SERVICES  &TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                        OFFICER
*| PERSONNEL    l         RNPRAIN| 1TASISO                                           GENERAL 
.GU, MTGAO            OUTSiDE
*    TRAINING   *    FINANCIAL  M   PLANT& &  lk* TREASRY
SOCIFALR                    PHILATELY    l               CMEIA         l     *|      SOS       X
j  SUPPLIES    1  *|    STUDIESS                      LNIG        l     M      REVENUE 
TRASORITON|
.~~~~~~ ~~                                          ~      ~~~~~~ BUILDINGS
|REGIONAL MANAGEMENTS OF
POSTS 8& TELECOMMUNICAtIONS|
| 3AMAKO, KAYES, SIKASSOl
|  SEGOU, MOPTI, GAO      l
World Bank-6463(2R)






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2 pages
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET T£LiCOMMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
1. Local Telecommunication Services
The total capacity and number of connected telephone lines in
Mali as of December 1971 were as follows:
Exchange        Connected
Capacity       Direct Lines
Bamako              3,000          1,906
Provinces           2;218           1L,98
Total     5,218           3 404
The total number of telephones in service at that time was 5,00.
OPTM has only one automatic exchange; this is in Bamako and is
equipped with 2,000 lines of French R6 step-by-step system (1,000 lines
installed in 1957, 1,000 in 1964) and 1,000 lines of Pentaconta common
control system (installed in 1970). The installation has been carried out
to provide for control of the step-by-step selectors by the Pentaconta
registers.  In all other regions of Mali, service is operated manually
through 56 small switchboards, located as follows:
Number of      Total      Connected
Regions                 Switchboards   Capacity  Direct Lines
Bamako (outside city)        11           299         212
Segou                        14           515         370
Mopti                         6           227          165
Sikasso                       7           346         222
Kayes                         8           343         237
Gao                          10           488         292
Total               56        2,218        1,498
A five-digit numbering scheme is being used in Bamako and will
be extended to the rest of the country. Owing to lack of maintenance and
the obsolescence of some equipment, the quality of service is extremely
poor.
The local distribution networks in all areas are in poor con-
dition and also are insufficient to meet demand.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2 pages
2. Long Distance Service
Of the 268 communities outside Bamako, only 88 have access to
the long distance network. Present long distance facilities (see Maps 1
and 2), of which the largest and most important section is located between
the towns along the Niger River, consist of iron and copper open-wire
lines and HF radio. OPTM presently has about 4,500 km of open-wire route
containing 5,300 pair/km of copper wire and 1,700 pair/km of iron wire.
Along the following three routes one- and three-channel carrier systems
are being operated:
Bamako- Segou        Three-channel
Bamako- Bougouni    One-channel
Bamako - Koulikoro One-channel
HF radio is used for communication between Bamako and the nine provincial
centers of Kayes, Mopti, Sikasso, Tombouctou, Gao, Nara, Nioro, Niamina
and Kangala. These towns are connected to 23 other small, isolated towns
by low-power HF radio secondary links.
3.  Telegraph and Telex Services
Domestic telegraph service is provided through HF radio and
open-wire lines. All towns that have public telephone service also have
telegraph service. Nine small towns that do not have telephone service
are connected to major centers by low-power HF radio telegraph links.
OPTM has a 100-line Siemens telex exchange located in Bamako.
Presently there are 43 subscribers connected to this exchange. One sub-
scriber in Segou is connected to it through long distance facilities.
4. International Services
International telephone, telegraph and telex services are pro-
vided by TIM through direct HF radio circuits with Abidjan, Accra, Conakry,
Cotonou, Cairo, Dakar, Lome, Niamey, Ouagadougou, Paris and Moscow.  All
OPTM's subscribers have access to these services.
March 14, 1972



ANNEX 4
MALLI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET T1LidCC2MUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPnM)
Traffic Statistics (1968-1970)
I. TELEPHONE TRAFFIC
1968        1969         1970
Automatic calls in Bamako               3,43h,730   3,069,460   3,300,000
Minutes charged (trunk traffic)           174,1406     177,737     190,000
Minutes charged (outgoing
international traffic)                   84,807      88,376      110,000
IL. TELEX TRAFFIC
1968        1969        1970
Minutes charged in
domestic service                          5,702        7,253       8,o60
Minutes charged in
international service                    28,465      33,980       37,755
I-l. TELEGRAPH TRAFFIC
1968        1969         1970
Number of messages
(all traffic)                           465,182     531,10(      530,000
Words charged in outgoing
international service                 1,045,337   1,O0l,031      950,000
March l)¾, 1972






ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3 pages
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TiLECOMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTr)
The Project
The principal items of the project, to be realized in the period
197a through 1975, with a table of relative costs are given below.
A. Local Telephone Service
(i) The rehabilitation of existing switching equipment and the
installation of 2,300 automatic exchange lines, distributed
as follows:
Bamako    1,000         Kayes       300
Mopti        400        Kati        100
Segou       0oo         Koulikoro  100
OPTM has already decided to use common-control equipment for its
automatic exchanges. A national numbering plan which will give
a five-digit number to all subscribers has been adopted.  The
signalling system will be the R2 type recommended by Inter-
national Telephone and Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCITT).
The nuimber of connected direct exchange lines throughout the
country is expected to increase as follows:
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977
Additional lines           276    312    3h0    371    h13    h52
Total connected
direct exchange
lines                 3,680  3,992  4,332  4,703  5,116  5,568
increase in DEL         8.1    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.8    8.8
(ii)  Thle rehabilitation and expansion of the local distribution net-
works and provision of subscriber apparatus to connect an
additional ,',500 direct exchange connections in Bamako, Kati,
Kayes, Koulikoro, Ylopti and Segou.
L-.  Long Distance Service
The lonr distance routes to be constructed are shown on Map 3.
(i) Construction of a microwave link with a final capacity of about
960 channels between Bamako, Segou and Mopti. Initially, this



ANiL"X 5
I'age 2 of 3 page;
link will be provided with multiplex equipment for c(i charmie]2,
to be distributed as follows:
Bamako - Segou      24
Bamako - Mopti      24
Segou  - Mopti       6
San    - Segou      6
Total   60
(ii) Construction of the following four new VHf' routes:
Bamako - Kati
Bamako - Koulikoro
Segou - Dioro
Mopti - Bandiagara
(iii) Provision of automatic long distance switching equipment at
Bamako, Kati, Koulikoro, Segou and Mopti to take full advantage
of the automatization of the local networks.
(iv)  Redeployment to smaller towns of carrier and HF radio equipment
made available from (i) and (ii) above.
(v)  Rehabilitation of open-wire lines along the route between Barriako
and Segou to serve Baguineda, Fana and Dioila.
C. Miscellaneous
(i) Extension to the Bamako automatic exchange building and
construction of telecommunication centers in Mopti and Kaye:.
(ii) Vehicles, transport equipment, mechanical aids, tools, and
miscellaneous equipment and materials to be used during
construction by OPTM's staff.
(iii) Detailed engineering services covering the planning, super-
vision and acceptance test of the construction works.
(iv)  Assistance by financial consultants for the reorganization
of accounting.
(v)  Assistance to the Director of Telecommmications in organiza-
tion and management by a qualified and experienced expert.



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTiSS ET TELCOMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
TELECQMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Project (1972 - 1975)
(in millions of Mali Francs)
1972                       1973                          1974                        1975                         TOTAL
ITEMS                                    Local   Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign    Total
A. Local Services
2300 lines automatic exchanges               -         -       -          3.0      17.7     20.7      12.8     105.9   118.7       12.8     52.9      65.7      28.6     176.5      205.1
Local networks and subscribers' plant         10.0      _      10.0      21.8      15.3     37.1      25.0       ,7.8    112.8     19.0      39-9     58.9      75.8      143.0     218.8
Sub total                               ]0.0     -       10.0      24.8    33.0       57.8      37.8     193.7    231.5      31.8      92.8    124.6     104.4      319.5     423.9
P. Long Distance Service
Microwave link Bamako-Mopti                   10.0     _       10.0       90.0     91.7    181.7      22.0      525.1   547.1      25.0    300.0    325.0      147.0      916.8   1,063.8
Other transmission equipmernt                  5.0     -        5.0      10.0       9.1     19.1      18.0       54.4     72.4     15.8      27.1     42.9      48.8       90.6     139.4
Trunk switching equipment                     -        _       -          -         1.5      1.5       0.7        9.0      3.7      0.8       4.8      5.6       1.5       15.3      16.8
Sub total                               15.0     -       15.0     100.0    102.3    202.3       40.7     588.5    629.2      41.6    331.9    373.5      197.3   1,022.7   1,220.0
C. Builcangs                                        37.0     -       37.0       60.o      3.0     63.0      63.5       25.5     89.0      -         -        -       160.5       28.5     189.0
D. Miscellaneous
Vehicles, tools, miscellaneous                22.6     -       22.6       22.6      2.1     24.7      22.6       16.0     38.6     22.6       2.8     25.4      90.4       20.9     111.3
Detailed enginleering                         -        )..0     4.0        1.0     10.0     11.0       2.0       10.4     12.4      2.0      15.5     17.5       5.0       39.9      44.9
Accountirng cinsultar.ts                      -        4.6      4.6        0.6      5.7      6.3       -              -             -         -        -         o.6       10.3      10.9
MAlmnagement eypert                           -        -        -          -       16.2     16.2        -        16.2     16.2      -        16.3    16.3         -        48.7      48.7
Sub tDtai                               22.6     8.6     31.2       24.2     34.0     58.2      24.6       42.6     67.2     24.6      34.6     59.2      96.0      119.8     215.8
E.  Contingencies
ltysical                                       4.2    4o        4.6      10.5       8.7     19.2       8.3       42.5     50.8      4.9      22.9     27.8      27.9       74.5     102.4
I'sice                                         4       -.2      4.2      10.5        -      i0.5       8.3        -        8.3      4.9       -        4.9      27.9       _         27.9
Sub total                                8.4     0.4      8.8       21.0      8.7     29.7      16.6       42.5     59.1      9.8      22.9     32.7       55-8      74.5     130.3
1' r .>, 1<  ,XAl                            9v3.0     9.u    102.0     230.0    181.0    411..      183.2      892.8  1,076,0    107.3    482.2    59o.o      614  0   1,565.0   2,179.0
ay 1, 1u72
up






MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTM)
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF THE WORKS OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
1         972                  1973                   1974                  1975
jTEMS                                                0    rMA          1IT           ]4AIS  IND JfFMA    JAS
LOCAL NETWORKS                                              < A
DESIGN '
EVALUATiON & AWARD
CONSTRUCTION                           I                                                       I
DESIGN 
AUTOMATIC EXCHANGES    BIDDING                                                                          I      'I
EVALUATION & AWARDI
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING                                          I
DESIGNHI
OUTSIDE & SUBSCRIBERS    BIDDINGIIIII
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING       |                                   i 
LONG DISTANCE NETWORKII                                                                                             
MICROWAVE                BIDDINGI
BAMAKO-MOPTI             EVALUATION & AWARD
INSTALLATION & COMMAiSSIONING                                                               J
DESIGN
TRUNK SWITCHING          BIDDING
EQUIPMENT                EVALUATION & AWARD
INSTA~LLATION & COMMISSIONING 
DESIGN
OTHER WORKS        EVALUATION & AWVARD
INSTALLATION &COMIMISSIONING 
TRANSFER OF TRANSMISSION EOUiPMENTII                                                     I
z
Wo'id Sarnk-5437IBPR  C






ANNEX 7
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELiCONMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OTM)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed IDA Credit
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
Fiscal Year               Quarter                  _       (US$'000)
1972/73          September 30, 1972                            20
December 31, 1972                            40
March 31 , 1973                             100
June 30, 1973                               150
1973/74          September 30, 1973                          200
December 31, 1973                           400
March 31, 1974                              650
June 30, 1974                             1,000
1974/75          September 30, 1974                        1,400
December 31, 1974                         1,800
March 31, 1975                            2,300
June 30, 1975                             2,800
1975/76          September 30, 1975                        3,200
Decermber 31, 1975                        3,600
May 12, 1972






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2 pages
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
Internal Economic Rate of Return
1. *A conservative estimate of the internal economic rate of return,
using present tariffs and December 1971 prices, is 13%. The expected
revenues attributable to the project were used as a measure of benefits.
Costs included construction costs, free of taxes and duties, and attrib-
utable operating costs (excluding depreciation). Should revenues and
costs each vary +10%, the rate of return would be between 11% and 15%.
Should a one-year delay occur in project completion, the expected rate
of return would be 12%.
2.        The sensitivity analysis using the variables mentioned below
gave the following results:
Rate of Return (%)
10% increase in revenues                        15
5% increase in revenues                        14
5% decrease in revenues                        12
10% decrease in revenues                        11
10% increase in project costs                   11
5% increase in project costs                   12
5% decrease in project costs                   14
10% decrease in project costs                   15
One-year delay in project completion            12
3.        A summary of revenues and costs at constant prices (in MF millions)
that have been allocated to the project is given below.
Operating Revenues                          Costs
Long   Inter    Mis-             Operat-  Con-                Net
Dis-   nation-  cella-           ing       struction           Cash
Year     Local  tance  al        neous  Total    Costs    Costs       Total    Flow
1972       -       3       -       -       3         7        102       109   (  106)
1973      10       9       -       -      19        16        411       427   (  408)
1974      34      21       -       -      55        25      1,076    1,101   (1,046)
1975      65      95       1       -     161        47        590       637   ( 476)
1976     111     172       1       5     289        58        -          58      231
1977     153     202       1       5     361        70        -          70      291
1978     206     202       1       5     414        82        -          82      332
1979     238     202       2      10     452        96        -          96      356
1980-90  272     202       2      10     486       111        -         111      375
1991     272     202       2      10     486       111       (587)    (476)      962



ANN[,, X 6
Page 2 of' ;) page;
(i) The operating revenues in the above-mentioned table have
been derived from an apportionment of the revenues shown
in the income statements (Annex 10) and of further pro-
jections made for 1978 through 1991, between existing
facilities and those provided by the project.  The projectLons,
based on demand and capacities, assumed a growth rate of
9% per annum for local revenues for 1978 and 5Do for 1979
and 1980, with no additional revenue thereafter. As long
distance circuits would be saturated by 1977, no additional
long distance revenue has been projected after that year.
For the apportionment it has been assumed that additional
revenues would continue to accrue from OPTM's existing local
and long distance facilities until 1977 and 197h, respectively,
at the following rates:
Long Distance
Year             Local Revenue -                 e livenue -L
1972                    h.5                         8.0
1973                    4.o                         4 .0
1974                    3.0                         2.0
1975                    2.0
1976                    1.5
1977                    1.0
(ii)  The operating costs have likewise been obtained by the apoor-
tionment of the operating expenses (other than depreciation)
given in Annex 10 and of the expenses projected from 1978
through 1991. An annual growth rate of 5% for operating
expenses has been assumed for the period 1978 through 1980,
with no ircrease thereafter. For this apportionment it has
been assumed that the operating expenses relating to OPUKI's
existing facilities would increase at the rate of 3.5% per
annum from 1972 through 1980, with no increase thereafter.
(iii)  The construction costs are free of taxes and duties and are
the estimated project costs shown in Annex 5. An adjustment
in 1991 has been made for the residual value of plant and
buildings constructed during the project and having a life
beyond that date. For this purpose the following life periods
have been assumed:
Years
Local exchanges and networks        30
Trunk switching equipment           30
Microwave                            20
Other transmission equipment        20
Buildings                           40
May 12, 1972



ANiNEX 9
Page 1 of 2 pages
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECCM24UNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
Summary of Tariffs
1. General
Billing to subscribers is bimonthly. Subscribers are subject to
a two-part tariff comprising a rental for each line plus a charge per local
call. Long distance calls are charged on a unit basis of a three-minute
call, the charge varying according to distance by multiples of the base
rate for a local call. Additional surcharges are applied on long distance
calls originating from public call boxes.
2. Principal Tariffs
(i)  Tele2hone - Local                                      MF
(a)  Installation fee (per line)                     35,000
(b)  Private subscriber's deposit                     3,000
(c)  Bimonthly rental (per line)                      3,150
(d)  Bimonthly rental (multi-party)                   2,835
(e)  Bimonthly rental (per extension)                 1,575
(f) Local calls (no time limit)
(i)  from subscribers' lines (base rate)            70
(ii)  from public call boxes                         70
(ii)  Telephone - Long Distance - (Rates for 3-minute calls)
(a)  From subscribers' lines:
Multiple of Base
Rate (MF 70)           MF
0 - 50 km                     2                  140
51 -  75 km                    3                  210
76 - 100 km                    4                  280
101 - 150 km                    6                  420
15] - 6200 km                   7                  49(
C(er 200 km there is an additional charge of MF 140 for
each 100 km or fraction thereof, with a maximum charge
of MF],050.
(b)  From public call boxes:
Unit charges are the same as those for subscribeis'
lines, but in addition there is a surcharge on each
call.



A LIJ I 
Page 2 ol' f p)
,;urcharge:  0 - 100 km          35
Over 100 km there is an additiona] surcharge of'
14F35 for each 100 km or fraction thereof, with
a maximum charge of MF].,120.
(iii) Telephone-International
Samp:le rates for 3-minute station-to-station calls from Mal i tG:
MF
Senegal                     1,820
Upper Volta                 1,820
Kenya                       8,355
France                      3,6ho
USA                         8,355 plus 835 for preparat ,ic;n
USSR                        6,550
(iv)  Telex                                   vF
(a)  Installation fees            5L,250
(b)  Monthly rental               3h,650
(c) Communications
(i)  local (3 minutes)          105
(ii)  long distance              1/2 the telephone rate
(v) TeIgMKh
N1'
(a) Ordinary telegrams - per word
(any destination)              40
Minimum charge (10 words)        400
Additional charges are added for delivery by means ot,her
than regular postal services.
March 13, 1972



ANNEX 10
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TEEECOMUDICATICNS DU MALI (OPTM)
TELECOMMUNICATIoNS DEPARTMENT
Statements of Income - 1969-1977
(in nillions of Mali Francs)
Estimated                                              Forecast
Year ending December 31:           19"       1970       1971              1972       1973      1974       1975       1976       157L
REVEIIUE
Telephone - local                                             356.9      364.0      372.0             389.0     415.0      451.0      490.0     543.0      589.0
- long distance                                     119.8      I19.8     122.0             135.0      146.0     161.0      235.0      3120.     342.0
- international                                       9.1       9.0        9.0               9.0        9.0       9.0        9.5        9.5      10.0
Telegraph                                                     130.8      130.3      130.0             130.0     130.0      130.0      125.0     128.0      127.C
Telex                                                          43.6       48.9       54.c              60.o      65.0       71.0       79.5       87.5      95.0
Miscellaneous                                                   27.4      23.5       25.0              25.0       25.0      25.        25.0       30.0      30.0
TOTAL OFERATING REVENUE                   687.6      695.5     712.0              748.o     790.0      847,0      967.0   1,110.0   1,193.0
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                      268.7      280.3      294.3             309.0     324.4      340.6      357.6     375.5      394.3
Other expenses 1/                                             166.2      199.9      209.9             220.4     231.4      243.o      267.3     280.7      294.7
Depreciation                                                   76.0       81.0       86.5              go.8      93.6      100.9      145.9     190.5      195.9
T1T01 OPEFATING EXPENSES                  510.9      561.2     590.7              620.2     649.4      684.5      770.8     846.7      584._
NrT INCOME (before int-rest)                                      176.7     134.3      121.3             127.8      140.6     162.5      196.2      263.3     308.1
Less:  Interest                                                            -          -                 0.2        5.5      42,7      100.0      137.3     145.4
NTT PROFIT                                                        176.7     134.3      121.3             127.6     132.1      121.8       96.2      126.0     162.7
Less:  E-tel Deficit                                           64.5       91.9       86.5               -          -         -          -          -         -
T,ar&fer to Governrent                                   -                    -                  -        80.0       8o0.      80D.       80.0 80.
NET SURPLIUS                                                      112.2      42.4       34.8             127.6       52.1      41.8       16.2       46.o      82.7
Rate of return                                                     14.2%      9.8%       8.4%              8.8%      959%      11i.        B.3,c      9.55     10.lp
Operating ratio 3/                                                 74        81         83                83         82        S1         80         76        75
Average net telecomr%,nication plant in service                1,242.7   1,373.1   1,437.8             1,445.9   1,416.7   1,479.4   2,357.0   3,111.9   3,341.7
1/    Includes inter-nervice adjustments
_2/    Ratio of net income (before interest) to average net telecommunication plant in service
3/    Patio of total operating expenses to total operating revenue
May 12, 1972






MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Balance Sheets - 1969-1977
(in millions of Mali Francs)
Estimated                                               Forecast
As of December 31:                    1969      1970       1971             1972       1973          Frcs                        1a77
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                        1,699.6   1,848.2   1,996.6            2,041.6   2,122.6   2,361.6   4,124.5   4,2C4.S   4,'64.5
Less:  Depreciation                                          362.3     641.9      527.8            618.6      712.2      813.1      59. 2 -14i.4   1,330-.
Net fixed assets                                   1,339.3   1,406.9   1,468.8            1,423.C   1,413.4   1,548.5   3,163.5   3,05&.1   3,022.3
Work in progress and materials in stock                      306.7     376.5      350.0            407,0      720.0   1,54'.0      350.0      502.,     F7S.2
Deferred Charges                                            -          -          -                 -          17.0       34.0      51.1       48.0,     44.9
Current assets
Ooverssaent Treasury                                     -          -          51.7             146.7      110.8      98.2      104.4     lC6,    112.2
Receivables - Subscribers                                965.0   1,118.3       222.2            2oC.i      273.C      295.2     30.3.      3-2 .2    445,.
- Others                                      44. 2     69.o       70.0              70.0      8o0,       80,.      80.        0C.0      71.0
-Government - Equipment subsidy            144.1     i44.1
- Past deficits                252.2      252.2     -                 -          -         -          -         -          -
Total current assets                1,405.3   1,583.6      341.7             476.7      463.8     473.2      529.4      971.7     o22.2
TOTAL ASSETS                  3,051.3   3,367.0   2,16C.5            2,356.7   2,611.2   3,595.7   4.,096.5   -,1-a7.8   4,3(c.4
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                                                1,176.5   1,300.0             1,156.1       1,156,1   1,15      6.2 1,1lu,6.0.  1,156. l,     1,13,. 1
Surplus                                                  483.4      4LI.6     476.6             604.2      656.3    3.96.1      714.3     7,C.3 _
Total equity                        1,660.2   1,742.0   1,632.7            1,760.3   1,612.4   1,854.    1,870 .4   1, 11D,   1,
Long-term debt
Internal loan from Postal/Financial Departmen.t          299.2      387.1     388.1             368.6      3L9.      316.4      283.721
IDA Credit (proposed)                                    -          -         -                  90.8      335.8   1,311.C   1,763.2   1, ,4.    i, 
Future loan                                              -          -         -                 -          -         -          -  ',!3 
Total long-term debt                   299.2     387.1      388.1            4-19.-     o6.9   1,c27.4   2,051.-   2,           2.23. 
Current liabilities
Government Treasury                                      223.8   1,071.8      -
Sundry creditors/provisions                              168.1      146.6     122.2             1C7.5       -34.4      1i.4      -5.-       (4'-5
Curren. maturities                                       -           19.5       19.5             19.5       19.5       32,7     l  .-      1- .4     1'-.,.4
Total current liabilities           1,091.9   1,237.3       133.7            12'7.2     113.,     ii4.1      1- 73.,    1, 1.1    i47.4
TOTAL LTABILITIES             3,051.3   3,367.7   2,160.5            2,306.7   2,611.'   3,5,5.7   4,.-        5 4,57,58  4,3..L-
Debt/equity ratio                                            15/85     18/82      19/81             19/81     27/73      47/53                52240,5 s2/43
Current ratio                                                1.3:1     1.3:1      2.4:i             3.3:1     4.1:1      4.1:1     3.I1    3.':1        4.2 :1
May 12, 1972



ANNEX 12
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMMNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMNT
Statement of Sources and Application of Funds
(in millions of Mali Francs)
Estimated                                                   Forecast
Year ending December 31:          1969      1970     1971                   1972       1973      1974       1975       1976      1977
SOURCES OF FONDS
Interal cash generation
Net income before interest                          176.7    134.3    121. 3                  127.8      140.6     162.5      196.2      263.3      308.1
Depreciation                                         76.0      81.0     86.5                   90.8       93.6     100.9      145.9      190.5      195.9
Total internal cash generation                    252.7    215.3    207.8                   218.6     234.2      263.4      342.1      453.8     504.o
Donation                                                -        39         - 4                              -                              --
Subscribers' deposits                                   0.3       0.4       0.5                   0.8        ° 9        1.0       1.1        1.2        1.3
Borrovings:
Postal/Financial Department Loan                    2o6.3    107.4      20.5                    -          -         -          -          -          -
IDA Credit (proposed)                                 _         -        _                     50.8      285.0     975.2      530.7
Suture loan                                           _-                                                                       -         1750      290.
Total borrowings                                  206.3    107.4      20.5                   50.8     285.0      975.2      530.7      175.0     200.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        459.3    362.5    228.8                  270.2      520.1   1,239.6       573.9     630.0      705.3
APPLICATICN OF FUNDS
Capital construction
1972-1975 Program                                     _         _        -                    102.0     411.0   1,076.0       590.0        -          -
ruiture program                                                                                      -               -          -        250.0     310.0
Miscellaneous works                                 4o8.i    215.4    121.9                                          -          -          -
408.1    218.4    121.9                  102.0      411.0   1,076.0       590.0     250.0      310.0
Debt service - amortization
Postal/Financial Department loan                      -         -       19.5                   19.5       19.5      19.5       32.7       32.7       32.7
IDA Credit (proposed)                                 -         -         -                     -          -         -          -         73.7       73.7
_        _        19.5                  19.5       19.5       19.5      32.7      106.0      106.4
Debt service - interest
IDA Credit (proposed)                                 -         -         -                     0.2        8.5       C.7      100.0      130.8     125.5
Future loan                                           -         _        -                      _          -         -          -          6.5      19.9
_        -         _                       0.2     8.5       40.7     100.9      137.3      145,4
Total debt ser-vice                                 -         -       19.5                   19.7       28.o      60.2      132.7      243.7     251.8
Increase (decrease)in -working capital:
Government Tres.ury                                (277.4)  (148.0) 1,123.5                    95.0      (35.9)    (12.6)       6.2        2.3        3.5
Receivables                                         214.0    178.3 (1,293.6)                   4o.0       23.0      22.0       50.2       40.0       25.0
Sundry creditors                                     50.1      21.9     26.9                   13.5       14.0      14.C       15.0       14.0       15.0
(13.3)    52.2   (143.2)                 148.5        1.1       23,4      71.2       56.3       63.5
Capital adjustment                                      -         -      144.1                                    -          -               -          -
Postal deficit                                         64.5      91.9     86.5                               -          -         -
Contribution to Government                              -                  -                      -         80.0      80.0       80.0       bo.0      & 0.
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                    459.3    362.5    228.8                   270.2     520 1         6        73.9     630.0      725.3
Debt service coverage                                   -         -       10.6                   11.1        8.4        4.4       2.6        1.9        2.0
1.ayo 12, 1972



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2 pages
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELdCOMTiUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
TELECThUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Ulotes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1. General
OPnT's present accounting system treats all operations jointly;
the final accounts and balance sheets do not show operating results and
financial positions for the respective postal/financial and telecommuni-
cation services. Under present circumstances, therefore, given the large
items in OPTM's accounts which are common to both services, the accuracy
of any accounts for individual services drawn up from existing data depends
on the accuracy of the allocation of common items: income, expenditure,
assets and liabilities. During the course of the UNDP study of OPTM's
finances (see paras. 6.01 and 6.02), the Bank accepted as equitable a
series of criteria for the allocation between services of common items.
Using these criteria, the consultants prepared financial statements for
individual services for fiscal years 1962 through 1970, of which the
accounts for 1969 and 1970, after test, have been used in this appraisal
as base years for future projections.
The following notes relate to the main items of the Telecommu-
nications Department's accounts shown in Annexes 10 and 11.
2. ';tatements of Income - Annex 10
(i) Telephone revenue
(a)  Forecasts of local call revenue have been based on the
average number of telephone lines estimated to be in
operation during each year of the period 1972-1977.
(b)  Long distance revenue forecasts have been calculated
after making an analysis of the long distance revenue
from Bamako and the main regions and after taking into
account the new facilities to be brought into service
in those areas.
(c)  International revenue relates to terminal fees received
from PIM. This revenue is expected to remain relatively
stable, a-Lthough allowance has been made for small
increases in 1975 and 1977.
(ii) Telegraph revenue is expected to remain relatively stable during
thie next few years; on the completion of the new telephone



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2 pages
facilities in 1975, a slight decline of telegraph revenue is
to be expected.
(iii) Telex revenue has been forecast to increase at 10% per annum.
(iv)  Miscellaneous - Provision has been included for additional revenue
from the use of microwave circuits for television after 1975.
(v)  Salary expenses have been forecast to increase at about 5% per annum.
(vi)  Other e  enses are expected to increase by about 5% per annum
until 1974, 10% in 1975 and 5% per annum thereafter.
(vii) Depreciation - A composite rate of 4.5% per annum on average
gross fixed assets has been assumed.
(viii) Interest - For the years 1972 through 1975, interest charges
relate only to the relent IDA credit; thereafter an additional
provision has been included for interest on further borrowing.
(ix)  Postal deficit - The surpluses from telecommunications operations
from 1969 through 1971 have been charged with estimated deficits
from postal operations in those years. During negotiations the
Government agreed to subsidize annual postal deficits as frcm
fiscal 1972 (see para. 6.04 (iv)). During the project period
these subsidies should be more than covered by the total sum
received by the Government as transfers from OPTM's teleconmurli-
cations operations and as interest on the relent IDA credit
(see para. 6.14).
3. Balance Sheets - Annex 11
(i) Fixed assets - the amount of Work in Progress at the end of
each year has been related to the construction schedule.
Materials in stock are based on estimated requirements.
(ii) Deferred charges relate to the costs of the telecommunication
organization and management expert.
(iii) Current assets - Subscribers' receivables have been estimated
after taking into account OPTM's present two-month billing cycle,
billing time and collection difficulties. It has been assumed
that a reasonable improvement will be made in private subscriber
collections (see paras. 5.08 and 5.09).
(iv)  Equity - Capital figures for 1971 take into account the cancella-
tion of an unpaid Government subsidy for equipment.
(v) Current liabilities - Sundy creditors/provisions include subscriber
deposits, accounts payable and provisions. A reduction of provisions
has been provided for over the next few years.
May 12, 1972



ANNE( 14
Page 1 of 2 pages
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELEC(MMJNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT
Financial Aspects
1.       Following the pattern adopted in France and other countries in
French-speaking West Africa, OPTM's Postal/Financial Department carries
on the usual postal services, including the quasi-banking service of
money orders and a countrywide public checking account service.
2.       Although separate accounts are not kept for the department, it
is estimated that since OPTM's creation in 1960 postal/financial operations
have been and continue to be carried on at a loss (current annual deficits
are about 14F78 million). Accumulated losses of the department are estimated
as follows:
MF millions
1961 - 1967          551
1968 - 1971           371
Total     922 (US$1.8) million
Under OPTIVs statutes the losses prior to 1968 should have been met by
Government subsidy since telecommunication services during that period
were also operated at a loss; however, the Government has never fulfilled
this obligation and the accumulated deficit stands in OPTM's books as a
debt. Postal losses suffered between 1968 and 1971 have been transferred
annually against surpluses from telecommunication operations.
3.       OPIN's Postal/Financial Department has never been provided with
adequate liquid working capital to meet its day-to-day obligations in its
banking operations, and has therefore had to rely on advances from the
Public Treasury and public checking account funds for this purpose, and
for covering its pre-1968 deficits. As of December 31, 1970, OPTM's
estimated overdraft with the Treasury for postal operations was MF659
(US$1.3) million; balances due public checking account depositors were
IP1l.4 billion (U"$2.7 million).
h.      Between 1967 and 1971 and in accordance with Ministerial orders,
O01'4's Postal/Financial Department has made advances totalling MF427 (US$0.8)
million for the purchase of telecommunication automatic exchange equipment
and other materials and for miscellaneous telecommunication construction
work;.  Ihc orders provide that these funds shall be lent interest-free
and shall be repaid over 20 years, commencing in 1971. In drawing up the
plan fol settling the Postal/Financial Departmentts problems (see para.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2 pages
6.o4(v)), the Government and OPTM will be asked to review inter alia the
redemption periods of these advances.
5.        The Government proposes to conduct a review of OPTM's postal/
financial operations for which it will probably request bilateral or
multilateral assistance. In addition it intends to take the necessary
steps to put the Postal/Financial Department on a sound financial basis.
However, given the limited available financial resources and the large
working capital requirements of the department, a period of time will be
required before this can be achieved. The Government therefore proposes
to:
(i) subsidize future annual deficits of OPTM's Postal/Financial
Department as from January 1, 1972; and
(ii) submit to IDA and subsequently implement, a plan agreed by
OPTM and IDA to settle the pre-1968 deficits of the Postal/
Financial Department and to restore that department to good
financial order.
6.        Present indications are that the financial benefits accruing
to the Government from the proposed telecommunication project should be
such as to facilitate a solution to the Postal/Financial Department's
problems within a reasonable period of time after the completion of the
project.
May 12, 1972



ANNEX. 13
MAL!
)FFICE DES POSTES ET DELECOMMUNICATIONS DU MALI (OPTM)
POSTAL-FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT
Statements of Income - 1969-1977
(in millions of Mai Francs)
EB~itmted                                                 ForecaSt
Year ending December 31:                    1969       1970       1971                 1972       1973       1974        1979     196        1977
REVENDUE
Pos-Tl service                                            285.8      326.4   342.7                   377.0    l39 .8      l1.o       43t.4   458.-        881.1
Pablis checking accosots                                    7.3        7.1        7.4                  7.8        8.         8.8        3.)       '.4        y.8
Miscellaneo1s                                               9.1        2.2        2.2                  2.3        2.4        2.5        2                    ?,o
TOTAL OPERAATING REVENUE                   302.2      335.6     352.3                 387.1      406.4      4;6.7     44-.5    4-70.3       49).7
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                  264.o      271.5     28M.4                 303.9      319.1      335.0    311.7       3-,99      48z f
Othier expense&!/                                         111.5      133.2     141.1                 14'. L     150.5      155.3     180.0      Tr-L I     1itO .
Depreciaton                                               i4.0       14.o        9.3                  9.'       10.2       iO.6       -1.1       11.4      ll.9
TOTAL )PEEATING EXPENSES                   389.5      427.5     438.8                 460.2      480.1      500.9     5 ,2.n         .
NIE? DEFICIT                                                (87.3)    (91.9)    (86 . 50                (7,.9     (73,7)      '4            11 '      .7
Trnnsfer-e  agair-t provisi-ns                             22.8        -
Transferred against telecommunications sarpLas             64.5      91.9       86.5                   -
Contribution fiom Qover-nent                                -          -          -                   72.5       73,7       74.2       74.8      '           ,
1/  includirg inter-service adjustments.
January 11, 1972



ANNEx 16
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONSDU MALI (OPTM)
POSTAL-FINAMIAL DEPARTMZNT
Balance Sheets- 1969-1977
(in millions of' Mali Franes)
Estimated                                               Forecast
As of December 31:                    1969      1970        1971               1972       1973      1974      1975       1976      1977
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                     286.9      302.7      317.7              332.7      347.7     362.7      377.7     392.7     407.7
Less:  Depreciation                                     64.7       78.7       88.o                97.7     107.9     118.5     129.6      141.0     152.9
Net fixed assets                       222.2     224.0       229.7              235.0     239.8      244.2     248.1     251.7      254.8
Other assets
Loan to Telecommunications Department                299.2      387.1      388.1               368.6     349.1     316.4      283.7     251.0     2L3.3
Current assets
Cash                                                  82.7      97.5        95.0               95.0       95.0      98.o      98.o       98.0     100.0
Government Treasury                               12,433.7        -          -                  -          -         -          6.1      87.8     116.5
Receivables - Sundry debtors                          22.2      22.4        22.0               22.0       22.0      22.0      22.0       22.0      22.0
- Money orders                         4,265.1   1,376.4    1,000.0      I      1,000.0   1,000.0   1,000.0   1,000.0   1,000.0   1,000.0
- Current maturities                       -        19.5        19.5               19.5      19.5       32.7      32.7       32.7      32.7
- Government-Equipment subsidy            31.6      31.6         -                  -         -          -         -          -         -
-Past deficits               551.1     551.1      551.1               551.1     551.1     551.1      551.1     551.1      551.1
Stores                                                58.8      64.1        65.0               66.o       68.o      70.0      71.0       72.0      74.0
Total current assets                17,445.2   2,162.6    1,752.6             1,753.6   1,755.6   1,773.8   1,780.9   1,863.6   1,896.3
TOTAL ASSETS                 17,966.6    L773.7    2,370.4              2,357                 334.4 5,312.7   7, 366.3        4,369.4
LIABIITIES
Capital                                                175.9      175.9      144.3              149.6      154.4     158.8     162.7      166.3     169.4
Current liabilities
Government Treasury                                    -       659.1       226.1              157.6       90.1      50.6        -         -          -
Public checking account depositors                17,273.0   1,416.1    1,450.0             1,500.0   1,550.0   1,575.0   1,600.0   1,650.0   1,450.0
Sundry creditors                                     517.7     522.6       550.0              550.0      550.0     550.0     550.0      550.0     550.0
Total current liabilities           17,790.7   2,597.8    2,226.1             2,207.6   2,190.1   2,175.6   2,150.0   2,200.0   2,200.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES            17,966.6   2,773.7    2370.4               2,35.2   2,344.5    ,334.4   2,312.7   2, 366.3   2, 369.4
Current ratio                                            0.9:1      0.8:1      0.7:1              0.8:1      0.8:1     0.8:1      0.8:1     0.8:1     0.8:1
January 11, 1972



A-tNNEX 17
MALL
OFFICE DES POSTES ET ThLELC0MYUNCATIONS DU MALI (OPTs)
POSTAL-FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT
Statement of Sources and Application of Fsnds
( in  sillions of Mali Francs)
Estimated                                                 Forecasot
Year ending December 31:                   1969         1970       1971               1972        1973       197F or    1          197r       1977
SO'IECES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income before interest                                   -            -          -                  -          -          -           -          -
Depreciatin                                                i14.0         14.0        9.3                9.7       10.7       lO            l l l  . 11.9
Total internal cash generation                         14.0         14.0         9.3                9.7       10.     lO.6          1          11.4       11.9
Loan repao9ments - Telecommunications Department               -            -         19.5               19.5       19.5        19.5       3.         37         3. 7
Public checking accounts - net increase                                     -         33.9               53.0       50.0        -5.0       25.0       50.0        -
Contribution from Government                                   -            -          -                       762  75.5       '18.t        "..7      75.6        78.8
Deficit set off agoinst telecommunication surplus             64.5         91.9       86.5                                            -                -           -
-OTOL CODRCES OF FjNDS                      78.5        105.9      149.7              15i7.L      15b.7      '33.7    1i7.5        1u          13 .4
APPLTCATTOI' OP FUND°
Constrr ctnor - rtasrell aneous                               22.3         15.8       15.0               15 .0      17.3        lrl C      lr,. t1      10        1 ,.
Loan to Tel-nomn-nirations Department                        206.3        io7.4       20.5                _           _          _
Public checking accounts - ne~ decrease                   1,936.5    15,856.9          -                  -          -          -           -
Tncrease (decrease' in working capital
Cash                                                     (138.8)         1.8        (2.5)               -          -           3         -
Tovernrent Treasury                                    (4,223.8)  (13,092.5)    435.3                 65.5       t7           9r        5t.7          7
Receivables                                             2,377.7    (2,888.5)   (408.4)                  -                                -
Stores                                                      *5.8          5.3        3.9                1.0         O0        7.3        1.: .0
Su-dry  cedlto7-                                          (223.8)        (4t9)      '73.)
(2,18 .q. )  (15,96t~.I'    (4.4)        t      %.'  69.5   44.r5,                -           , ,'
Capital adiustment                                             -            -             in t                       -           -          -
Ann-al deficit                                                87.3         91.9        86.5              73.9       7357        '74        74.5     _5            75.7
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNLS                  78.5        105.9      149.9              157.4      158-.    1,3.7         147.'       ,7s.
Tanr ary 12, 1972






12-                                            80                                              4'                                             O                                               4
REPUBLIC  OF MALI                                                                                                                           A     L    G    E    R    I   A
EXISTING OPEN WIRE LINES NETWORK                                          |
2I'  .                                                                          ° Tessalit                            _20
.                    '        .       I~~~1                                                                                                      )
Existing open wire lines
13        Capital                                                    |                                                                                    0
---   nterrrrationdl bowundafirt                    r                                                                                               Kidol
Nvigable rivMers-uly-Jun.)                                     1
Flood araea                                                     i
Bourem
TO    UCTO            GoraRhru
0         100         200        390         400                                                                        u        Rharous
Kilometers                                                          GOUN        ,      ba                      T  O     A  R E G  S
16 '                                                                                       5         Tonka                                                 GAO
M    A    U    R    I    T    A    N    I    A                       Nifjk         _r5o                             THou      Ile Gs                        MenokoJ
jI     \                       ---                                                                -                         P E U L H            S          R A  I              .
NIORO_DU SAHEL                                                   -          Kortenze(
0Yelimone                                Nora                                                                                               a
)                                        Gourn~~~        ~          ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~bou  U I..Kan
i' t   Oelimoeul SKona  Douentza               I/        Tomboo oj
a         Korni                A,                                       TenenkoI M            va    D 0 G O  N                                                     N \   I    G      E     R
KYMhinE                                KiahkNn                              n         OD o
t   < 3   -t K ltrl   Nos    mbou gou   9             Tnaom iniefal           ......
Bafoulabeiebo                               I6                                           B > > K  nktS  P   S  ss>Be angesso  .  U   PP    ER  VO LT A     oRoC o<
.._ .                           Tou \  to          1  BetgUtned'' DHoiel      Kutil           0 o
12 _   <<L t>/   ~    J;    ou tossergsxe  tX   j                                  OUGADOUGOU                 12            ct-.        A I                  _
rre0  u               E    A                                      R) ~' KASSOA  : 
g                                                                                                                      AARCH   ered b3RD 39A
t4  Om             0                                                                                IERRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
/-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        v 0 RAtlantic   OCedn
MARtCH 1972IBD39






1 2 0                                         8 0                                            4                                             0      .                                        4 0
I~~~~
I                         0                                                           A    L    G    E    R    t   A
REPUBLIC OF MALI.
EXISTING HF RADIO NETWORK
20-                                                                                                                                                             /Pf Tesscilit                             2' e
-0-Existing  HF    r    adio    hnes.
0  aitgos  r     y                                                                                                                               Kidal
-*-    ternational bordies                                         j|                                                                              /
'    Navigobie riMes hbWY-JOA-)_                                   11                                                                           /
.-.  Flood aresi
O         l00        200        20400                       1l                 +       4        UT                        nb   lulm        / ,     
Kilometers G                   |
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                                               S         RA
qYelirnne  NIOFRO 00 SAHEL  BaI                     ara            0cbb&A
30G  0  N
MARC  be n9720'                                                                                                                                                              IBRD3
K  kakni'0    07EGOIaMEY
Ba 4mba                           S      -Tmiar%
ui                      a                                           [3nn,'~~~~~~ aa 
G    U  N    E    A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUGOUNI           )       ~        ~       ~       ~       OGAOUO
MARCH 972~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'~
PO       VO-A~~~BR  30






12'                                                                                               4'                                               0
REPUBISC OF MALI
TELECOMMUNICATION  PROGRAM                                                                                                                                        A  L G  E  R  I A
1972-1975
R972-1975 TTesshliT
EXISTING                      PROGRAM                                                                                                                        -e_20°
20_                     Microwave                                                      |                                                                                                           -
---   Carrier on O.H. line           -
V.H.F radO          .--
(25)   Number of lines        (400)
*     Notioa capital
*     Regonai caitals                                                                                                                                         0Kidal
-    - -   International boundaries
z ~        Navigable rivers (July-Jon.)
Flood areOs
Bourem
&  100  200  300      400                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOMI OUCTOU 1100)  T-6 Gourma Rhorous      O
0e 20, r    300                    400                             |
?  Kjl;tters                                                       "~~~~~~~~~~~~GOUNDA-                                     GAO (200)
16-                         M     A    U      R    I    T    A        N     I    A                  Niafounke                                                           f Ansongo              Mienoa            J
___________                                   K                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 0'l4   RA
gt' ~    ~     ~    ~         -    -L                                    */ -< -  -  - -  -n -  -  -  -
>    Ye limane   0 NIORO DU SAHEL (60)  0 Nara (25)                                                                  P E U L H                  Lbbeoego
)  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Douentzo
3   \   r  %30         Kokan;O          o    B    n a             bl3;<               >    D GG uPN (4001                                                   N    I    G        E     R
12-    K                              0Dr sremoDrn    a'nenkouoo                                       ........d D 0  G  0  N
K>~AYEc k                                                    Mourdioh         Niono0(25)                    BadiaGr
E   o(         _in '   t j V   O   R  Yf                                    ._   \~~~~ocin 0 
/afoulbe                                        / M                 a  "   On B0nkass3
KMARCHT  19
N                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Banombo (30)"   SEOU(~400  SAIO A-
A              - Tomipie~~- '  A<-
z  N ,                  o          ~~~~~~~~~~Koul ikoro (100)    U-                                                                    
OLJKenieba                    Kia(0        o)-,a                          Bi                                                                                                 MOOCC
BA~4AKO               aa(5                               _
~~'"'   ~~~*I000)  D~~~~~ogI                Y~~orosuo                                                                                   ALGERIALIA
I               L                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Koutala
12 -  **Nf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~'L0t1 ~~~~~~~~~~OUGADOUGOU                                                                    -12           .AE
~~~euremaIe,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  a 90b0                                                                     j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area covered bY mop ..-.-
G  U  f1N  E    A                                       BOUON '50)
0 B06UI             r SIKASSO (200)                                                                                  E5Q
Yonfolqa  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OKOjon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~       ~        ,'n2  bPE1
'*Kodiolo                                                         N-GUNE/GINA                                 oIrAr
~~~~~  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G    H    A    N    A                                                                              s    '- '
12                                                   84____ __I__BR__D__3801__
MARCH 1972IBO30



