The World Bank                                1818 H Street N.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPfENT  , D.C 0433    Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION       U. . .                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
March 6, 2013
Her Excellency
Viviana Caro
Minister of Development Planning
Ministry of Development Planning
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz No. 1092
Edificio Ex-COMIBOL Piso 5
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:   BOLIVIA: GPOBA Grant Agreement (Decentralized Electricity for Universal
Access Project) TF090206-IFC and TF090207-DFID
Additional Instructions: Disbursement Letter - First Restatement
Excellency:
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Development
Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of the Global Partnership on Output-based
Aid ("GPOBA"), and the Republic of Bolivia (the "Recipient") for the above-referenced project,
dated June 26, 2007. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may issue additional
instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Grant TF090206-IFC and TF090207-
DFID ("Grant"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes
the additional instructions.
This Disbursement Letter is the First Restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated June
26, 2007 for the above referenced project restating Section I (ii) to include grace period for
disbursement after the closing date of the project. All other provisions of the Disbursement
Letter dated June 26, 2007 shall remain in force and effect.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Grant:
* Reimbursement
* Direct Payment


﻿-2-
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the World Bank.
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Conditions in
the Agreement under Section IV.B. of Schedule 2.
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should
be furnished to the World Bank at the address indicated below providing the name(s) and
specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: Marcelo Giugale, Country Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed applications for
withdrawal, together with supporting documents, to the address indicated below:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
US$20,000 for Direct Payments and Reimbursements.
(iv) Advances (sections 5 and 6). For the reason set forth in subsection 5.2 of the Disbursement
Guidelines, the advancing of grant proceeds into a designated account is not a Disbursement
Method currently available under this Grant. Please send Applications only in support of the
Disbursement Methods listed in subsection I (i) of this letter.
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement under Category I and Category 2 Subsidy
Payments:
o Statement of Expenditure (SOE) in the form attached (Attachment 3); and
o Any additional documentation detailed in Section III. (iii) of this letter.


﻿-3 -
* For requests for Reimbursement under Category 2 and Category 3 for payments
above US$50,000:
0  Statement of Expenditure (SOE) in the form attached (Attachment 4);
" Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices, contracts) for payments against Goods, Services, Consultant Services,
Operating Costs, Training and Workshops; and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review, in the form attached (Attachment 6).
* For requests for Reimbursement under Category 2 and Category 3 for payments
below US$50,000:
0 Statement of Expenditure (SOE) in the form attached (Attachment 5); and
a List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review, in the form attached (Attachment 6).
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices, or contracts for any payment.
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures (subsection 6.3): Monthly.
(iii) Other Supporting Documentation Instructions
Statement of Expenditures presented for the initial advance made under Part I (Category 1)
of the project, should be accompanied by a copy of the signed Service Management Contract.
Subsequent payments made under each contract shall follow the payment schedule detailed in
the related contract.
V. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement  Handbook   available  on  the  World   Bank's   public  website  at
http://www.worldbank.org  and   its  secure  website   "Client   Connection"  at
http://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Printed copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you
will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact Doris Elizabeth Pineda at
dpineda@worldbank.org of the World Bank Honduras country office.


﻿-4-
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact the World Bank's Loan
Department by sending an email to loa-tf@worldbank.org and using the grant number and name
as a reference.
Yours sincerely,        V)
By__
Vidya Narasimhan,
Loan Department
Attachments
As per Original Disbursement letter dated June 26, 2007.


