Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11079
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1238-KE)
AUGUST 31, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =     Kenya Shillings 10.00
K.Sh.20.00    =    K.L1.00
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Glossary
DANIDA             Danish Development Agency
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
IRHFP              Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning
MCH/FP             Matemal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOH                Ministry of Health
NCPD               National Council for Population and Development
NGO                Non Govemmental Organization
ODA                Overseas Development Organization
PCR                Project Completion Report
SIDA               Swedish Intemational Development Agency
UNFPA              United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID              United Sates Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Ceneral
Operatmrns Evaluatwn
August 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Kenya: Integrated Rural Health
and Family Planning Prolect (Credit 1238-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Kenya: Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project
(Credit 1238-KE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1238-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ...................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................... iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity ................................... 1
2. Background  ................................... 1
3. Project Objectives and Description ...................................  3
Project Objectives ................................... 3
Project Description  ...........          ........................ 3
4. Project Design ................................... 3
5. Project Implementation ................................... 4
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up ............................... 4
Implementation Schedule . ................................... 4
Project Costs ................................... 5
Credit Amendment ................................... 5
Procurement ................................... 5
Disbursements ................................... 6
Credit Allocation ................................... 6
6. Project Results ................................... 6
Project Objectives ................................... 6
Impact of Project ................................... 6
Component Results ...........             ........................ 6
7. Project Sustainability ................................... 7
8. Bank Performance ................................... 7
9. Borrower Performance ................................... 8
10. Project Relationship ................................... 8
11. Consulting Services ................................... 8
12. Project Documentation and Data ...................................   9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part A
1. Project Design  ........................................  11
2. Project Implementation ......................................... 13
3. Project's Development Impact  ........................................ 15
4. Lessons Learnt ........................................ 15
5. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance etc . ............................... 16
6. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance etc . ............................ 16
Part B
1. Project Design, Implementation and Impact ............             .................. 16
2. Development Impact and Lessons Learnt .            ............................... 17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits ......................................... 19
2. Project Timetable ..............                 .......................... 20
3. Credit Disbursement ......................................... 21
4. Project Implementation ......................................... 22
5. Project Costs and Financing  ........................................   23
6. Project Financing  ..............                .......................... 23
7. Allocations of Loan Proceeds ........................................  24
8. Project Benefits  ........................................ 25
9. Compliance with Credit Covenants ..................................... 26
10. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff/Weeks ........          ............... 28
13. Mission Data by Stages of Project ..................................... 29
Annex 1
1. Participants in Completion Mission ................ 31



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1238-KE
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Integrated Rural Health and
Family Planning Project in Kenya, for which Credit 1238-KE in the amount of US$23.0
million was approved on May 4, 1982. The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, five
years behind schedule. At the time of closing US$22.8 million had been disbursed and the
last disbursement was on April 30, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division, Eastern Africa Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III, and the Borrower [Part II]).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of
the project in September 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- 111 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1238-KE'
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objectives of the Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project
(IRHFP) were to: (i) continue efforts to reduce fertility; and (ii) improve the
accessibility and quality of rural health services to further reduce mortality and morbidity
in rural areas.
Implementation Experience
The project consisted of two parts. Part A was to establish a new inter-agency
information and education program for the promotion of the small family norm. Part B
was to strengthen rural health and family planning services. In the social and political
environment of the late 1970s and early 1980s when the project was prepared the design
was the maximum that could be achieved. However, with the changing environment it
became clear by mid-1984 that the project, as structured, could not meet its objectives.
The project was unable to support new activities such as voluntary surgical contraception
that had suddenly begun to gain popularity. On the other hand, a new organization
established to provide an inter-agency information and education (IEC) program for
population activities, the National Council for Population and Development (NCPD), had
done little to establish itself as a viable entity. The NCPD, by its mandate of an IEC
agency, was unable to provide support to NGOs that desired to offer family planning
services. An evaluation of NCPD recommended that it's mandate be changed from that
of an IEC agency to a national population program, one focussing on the coordination of
all population activities in the country. As a result the project was amended in 1985. The
restructuring of the project enabled the recasting of NCPD's role from that of an
information agency to the coordinating agency for all population activities in Kenya, and
reestablishing a dialogue with the Ministry of Health. The pace of implementation
gradually picked up and the project finally closed in December 1990.
Results
A decline in Kenya's fertility was noticed in the late 1980s and has been
continuing. Mortality levels have been unchanged throughout the 1980s. While the
project did play a significant role in establishing the environment for an effective
population program, it is impossible to estimate its direct impact on fertility reduction.
The project did enable NCPD become an effective agency to coordinate population
activities. It was instrumental in the liberalization, by the Ministry of Health, of



-lv -
contraceptive guidelines and in the introduction of voluntary surgical contraception in
government health facilities.
Sustainability
The question of sustainability was not addressed in the project. With such a low
demand for and availability of family planning services, it was not felt advisable to charge
for them. Donor assistance covered virtually all the recurrent costs of the NCPD and the
Ministry of Health's family planning division.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from project implementation are that: (a) design of a project
with two independent parts is difficult to supervise. A single agency should have overall
responsibility for project implementation; (b) closer attention should be paid to Audit
Reports including suspension of disbursements where appropriate; (c) supervision missions
should be fielded at flexible and appropriate intervals for timely intervention in prevention
of implementation problems; and (d) the past norm of 10+ staffweeks is totally
inadequate to supervise social sector projects.



PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECI
(CRED1T 1238-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:              Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project
Credit Number:     1238-KE
RVP Unit:          Africa Region
Country:           Kenya
Sector:            Population and Health
B.    Backeround
1.          The Government of Kenya recognized, in 1967, the potential severe
impediment to economic and social development by the rapid growth of population and
therefore initiated the first national Family Planning Program in Sub-saharan Africa. The
1969 Census showed that the rate of population growth had increased further. These
results increased governmental concern and resulted in the establishment of a Family
Planning Five-Year Program for the period 1975-1979. Through the program were
established a National Family Welfare Center, 400 MCH1FP service delivery points, 190
clinics, in-service Family Planning (FP) training for service providers and a cadre of about
800 family health educators. This program resulted in improving access to health care but
failed to achieve its family planning goals. This was due, in large part, to the lack of
political, administrative and technical commitment to population activities in the country at
that time. Furthermore, the program was constrained by lack of experienced, well trained
and motivated staff, inadequacy of facilities; shortages of contraceptive supplies; and poor
management. In retrospect, it was felt that the Program, which was supported by IDA's
First Population Project (Credit 468-KE) relied too heavily on the Ministry of Health as
the sole source for the supply of family planning services. It was further felt that the
provision of service needed to be preceded by much more intensive demand generation
through Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities. The provision of FP
services by the MOH also needed to be closely integrated with other family health
activities i.e. Maternal and Child Health and with those provided by Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs). It was also determined that family health educators had been
poorly trained and supervised and were doing non-family planning activities. The
environment for field workers in family planning was inappropriate at the time and hence
this concept was abandoned.
2.          Demand for family planning services was also low. Data from two surveys,
the Kenya Fertility Survey (KFS, 1977-78) and the Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence



-2-
Survey (KCPS, 1984) provide, the most reliable picture of contraceptive use and program
characteristics up to 1984. These two survey instruments, approximately seven years apart,
indicate that the proportion of married women using a modem contraceptive method rose
slowly from 6% in 1977 to 10% in 1984. (The IRHFP project began in 1982 but there
are no reliable statistics to indicate the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate at that time). The
MOH had a goal of 640,000 new acceptors by 1979. Only 42% of the goal had been
achieved.
3.          Noting the low levels of demand for FP services the Government of Kenya
reviewed the IEC program as it then existed, and recognized a number of constraints,
including: the absence of a coordinating mechanism for the promotional activities of
ministries and NGOs; neglect of key audiences (e.g. men, youth, professional and
leadership groups); overemphasis on health, to the exclusion of family size and population
issues; insufficient use of opportunities to provide IEC messages in clinics and maternity
wards; inadequate scope, quantity and pre-testing of IEC materials; limited use of radio
and other mass media; insufficient use of extension workers and non-formal education
programs; and ineffective use of schools for education in population, family life and
health.
4.          Rural health services became the responsibility of the central government
in 1970 when they were taken over from the local authorities. With a view to
standardizing rural health services the MOH, in 1972, introduced the concept of Rural
Health Unit - a geographically defined health administration unit within a district. In 1982
there were 254 rural health units each serving on average 54,000 population. Each rural
health unit would have one rural health center from which other rural health facilities i.e.
dispensaries and rural health sub-centers would be supervised. Although the quality of
services provided was uneven, out-patient rural health services were heavily utilized. The
1973/74 MOH survey found that the number of out-patients served per month in RHCs
varied between 300 and 18,000 with an average of about 5,000. However, rural health
facilities were inadequately equipped and the nurses lacked diagnostic and prescribing
skills.
5.          IDA involvement in the sector began in 1971 when the Government of
Kenya requested the Bank's help in preparing a five-year plan to strengthen the MOH's
FP program. IDAs first credit in the sector (Credit 468-KE) became effective in July
1974. The Credit of US$12 million equivalent financed mostly physical infrastructure and
was part of a larger US$38.8 million five-year plan which was also funded by UNFPA,
SIDA, USAID, DANIDA, the Federal Republic of Germany and ODA.
6.          Recognizing the constraints in the development of effective population and
health programs the Government and IDA began the design of a multi-sectoral project
including NGOs. The IRHFP project was designed to address the dual need for
expansion and improvement of health and family planning services and the establishment
of a strong IEC program. In May 1982, the Executive Directors approved a Credit of
SDR 20.5 million (then equivalent to US$23.00 million) to the Republic of Kenya for the
IRHFP project. Six other donors supported the project through parallel financing.



-3 -
C.           Project Obiectives and Description
7.           Project Objectives: The objectives of the project were: (i) to continue the
efforts begun under the First Health Project to reduce fertility; and (ii) to improve the
accessibility and quality of rural health services to further reduce mortality and morbidity
in rural areas.
8.           Project DesciDtion: The IRHFP project would have a duration of three
years, from July 1982 to June 1985, and would be the first phase of a six-year program.
The project consisted of two parts: Part A supported the establishment of a new inter-
agency information and education program for the promotion of the small family norm;
and Part B supported the strengthening of rural health and family planning services.
9.           The IRHFP project provided for (1) promotion of Family Planning and (2)
Improvement of Rural Health Services including MCHfiFP through:
(a)   construction, furnishing and equipment of new facilities, consisting
of 1 clinical officer school, and 1 enrolled clinical nurse school, 1
Rural Health Center (RHC), 4 dispensaries, 6 staff housing units
for existing dispensaries, and 6 maintenance training schools;
(b)   upgrading of 37 MOH dispensaries, 3 NGO nursing schools and 3
NGO RHCs;
(c)   improvement of 25 MOH dispensaries and 30 NGO dispensaries
and health centers;
(d)   provision of furniture and equipment;
(e)   vehicles including 4 thirty seat buses, 49 sedans, 9 twelve seat
minibuses, 3 station wagons, 34 four-wheel drive cars, 1200 bicycles,
152 motorcycles, 24 ambulances, 4 motorboats and 6 pick-ups;
(f)   salaries and allowances for about 2,000 incremental staff;
(g)    16 staff-years of advisory services; and
(h)   other incremental operating and maintenance costs.
D.           Project Design
10.          The design of the FP components of the project was based on two main
premises: first, a large increase in contraceptive use would not occur in Kenya until the
average desired family size started to fall from its current very high levels; and secondly,
accessibility to family planning services in rural areas was still well below its potential. For
fertility decline to occur general attitudes of society at large as well as those of parents
needed to be changed. Since the MOH could not do this by itself a new multi-media
information and education program conducted by a range of government and non-
government agencies was essential. The project would also increase accessibility to family



-4 -
planning by making it available at all MOH rural health facilities. It was projected that
the contraceptive prevalence rate would rise from about 5% in 1982 to between 10% and
17% by the end of 1987.
11.          With regard to the project's health aspects emphasis would be placed on
rural areas. The existing network of rural health facilities would be consolidated through
better staffing, improved drug supplies, physical upgrading, strengthening of support
systems, and the reorganization and strengthening of district level management. Support
would also be provided to NGOs in the provision of rural health services.
12.          The project design, recognized that reductions in fertility and reductions in
morbidity/mortality were mutually reinforcing. Both service and information programs
were necessary if national population objectives were to be achieved. The design was also
significantly influenced by the lessons of implementation of the MOH's 1974-79 MCH/FP
Five-Year Plan and in particular implementation experience of the First Population
Project.
13.          The conceptual framework for the project was appropriate and clear in the
socio-political environment of the country in the early 1980s. Although supported by the
President, as early as in 1981, strong political support for population control measures had
not spread widely through the government, churches or the public. By 1985 there was a
considerable change in the overall environment and the project was amended to take
advantage of the situation.
E..          Project ImDlementation
14.          Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up: Credit 1238-KE was approved
on May 4, 1982, signed on August 27, 1982 and declared effective on February 9, 1983.
The delay in effectiveness was due to the time taken by the government in filling key
personnel position in NCPD and in the MOHs Project Unit and, in finalizing donor
assistance equivalent to US$24.8 million equivalent.
15.          Implementation Schedule: Implementation of Part A of the project was at
first, unsatisfactory. Although the NCPD was established in 1982, the start-up process was
lengthy, it was not until 1984 that the NCPD Secretariat began to be operational. Little
progress had been made in creating demand for FP services. Few NGOs were involved in
IEC activities and the NCPD had not been effective in dealing with other ministries so as
to develop a multi-sectoral approach to population IEC. On the other hand, Part B of
the project was implemented according to schedule. Infrastructure activities were
completed. Due to restrictive contraceptive usage guidelines and little support from the
nursing profession (the main service providers of rural health services) the provision of FP
services did not take off.
16.          Since mid-1984 IDA staff engaged in a wide ranging dialogue with the
Government to review the factors contributing to the ineffectiveness of the population
program and to draw up a plan of action to address these weaknesses. Following a
National Leaders' Conference on Population in 1984 strong political support ensued and
the rapidly changing public attitudes towards family planning resulted in pressure on the
NCPD to play a prominent role in population policy and program development and



strengthened support of Family Planning by the MOH. Guidelines for contraceptive
usage were substantially liberalized; FP was integrated into MOH activities through the
establishment of a Division of Family Health; and non-health workers were allowed to
provide contraceptives. At the same time, the NCPD was re-organized and given
responsibility for planning, monitoring and coordinating all elements of the national
population program. Also the position of the Director, NCPD was raised to a higher
grade and additional staff positions were provided.
17.         Project Costs: By mid-May 1985 total project costs were estimated at
about US$45.3 million, against an appraisal estimate of US$61.0 million. The reduction in
project costs resulted from foreign exchange fluctuations, slower than expected
implementation of Part A, and the availability of grant funds for some Part A activities
from other donors. Only SDR 6.46 million of the IDA Credit of SDR 20.5 million had
been disbursed. It was estimated that by project completion, only SDR 14.0 million
would have been disbursed leaving SDR 6.5 million of unspent IDA funds. Under normal
circumstances, these unused IDA funds would have been canceled. However, the credit
was amended to finance high priority FP activities possible only due to the changed
environment. The Credit was initially extended until December 31, 1987 and subsequently
closed on December 31, 1990.
18.         Credit Amendment: Through the amendment funds were provided for:
(a)   establishment of a national surgical contraception program through
the construction furnishing and equipping of surgical contraception
units at 13 district hospitals;
(b)   establishment of family planning services at the 13 district hospitals
through construction, furnishing and equipment of FP clinics;
(c)   procurement of detachable trailer units to provide FP in remote
rural areas;
(d)   production of films on health and family planning, posters,
pamphlets and training manuals; workshops for journalists; and
study tours to support service delivery activities; and
(e)   renovation of existing buildings at the Mombasa College of Nursing
to begin the Registered Community Nurse Training Program.
Proposed support for the Department of Community Health, University of
Nairobi was canceled due to disagreements between the Ministries of
Education and Health.
19.         Prcurement: Procurement action for the original project was satisfactory.
Delays in procurement were not excessive. The same was not the case for the
construction of surgical contraception units at the 13 district hospitals. The main reason
for the delay was the last minute deletion of the item from the MOH's budget by the
Ministry of Finance for two years in succession.



- 6 -
20.          Disbursements: Disbursements of Credit 1238-KE are given in Table 3 in
Part III. The project closed on December 31, 1990, after three extensions of the closing
date of the Credit. Disbursements against commitments were made until April 1991 and
an outstanding balance of US$200,000.00 was cancelled.
21.          Credit Allocation The original and revised allocations and actual
disbursements for Credit 1238-KE are shown in Table 5 Part III. The original allocations
were revised in August 1985 following amendment of the Credit.
F.           Project Results
22.          Project Objectnres: The project's fertility objectives were met. By 1989
(the time of the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey) the Total Fertility Rate had
fallen from 7.9 in 1979 to 6.7. The Contraceptive Prevalence Rate had risen from 7% to
27%. It is, however, impossible to determine how much of the decline could be attributed
to the project and how much to extraneous variables. During the project period there was
no significant change in mortality or morbidity. The Infant Mortality Rate at 68 per 1,000
live births has virtually remained stationary through the last decade.
23.         Impact of Project After a slow beginning the NCPD has become a viable
agency and is responsible for the coordination of all population activities in the country.
A Second National Leader's Conference and several smaller conferences have increased
the public visibility and role of the NCPD. NCPD activities at the district level are now
coordinated by District Population Officers. The NCPD supports a range of NGOs, IEC
and Research activities. The number of professional staff at NCPD has grown from about
7 at inception to about 60 at present. On the family planning side the project has had
substantial impact. First, guidelines for use of contraceptives have been liberalized. Non-
medical workers have been allowed to dispense contraceptives. This action is probably a
key factor in the sudden and sustained increase in contraceptive usage. Secondly, the
MOH has become supportive of family planning activities. As a result, demand for clinic-
based contraceptives like Depo-provera, IUCDs and female sterilization have been steadily
increasing. The MOH has also become willing to try new methods of contraception.
Finally, the Division of Family Health has begun to provide leadership in the area of
family planning within the MOH. As far as morbidity and mortality are concerned there
has been little change during the life of the project. This probably reflects the difficulties
in providing effective health services in the North-Eastern part of the country and the
continuing difficulties in improving health status in Nyanga province. There are also
concerns that the gains of the child survival revolution, in terms of child morbidity and
mortality, could be wiped out as the AIDS epidemic spreads throughout the country.
24.          Component Results: Part A of the project had a slow beginning. The
NCPD took time to evolve into an effective national population agency. In the beginning
only few NGOs were involved in IEC work with virtually no governmental activity.
Towards the latter part of the project, particularly after the Amendment, the NCPD began
an effective multi-sectoral program with various government agencies and began
supporting NGOs providing either service or education or both. Part B of the project,
prior to the amendment, was implemented substantially as planned. Infrastructure
activities were completed and transport and equipment acquired without any significant
delays. Delays began, however, after the Amendment which supported the establishment



-7 -
of surgical contraception units at 13 district hospitals. Despite strong MOH support and
the support of the Permanent Secretary of Treasury the budget line item for these
activities was unexpectedly removed for two years in a row at the last minute. The
problem turned out to be in the Department of Budget and once corrected these activities
were also completed. It is projected that surgical contraception contributed 5% of the
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate in 1989 and is expected to remain steady.
G.           Project Sustainabilit,
25.          The financial viability of the project and of the population sector overall in
the short-term has been secured through continued donor contributions and by the
Government of Kenya's provision of counterpart funds. The recurrent budget of the
NCPD Secretariat is now fully funded by the Government of Kenya. Similarly, at the
Division of Family Health, all incremental salary costs have been absorbed in the MOH's
budget. The largest bulk of non-salary expenditure in the long-term is contraceptive
supplies. These have been provided by donors during the life of the project and are
expected to continue in the short-term. In the medium-term however, the government
will undertake a feasibility study for the local manufacture of injectables and oral
contraceptives. It is also likely that government financing of a larger portion of recurrent
costs will become necessary. On the health side, discussions on user charges are underway
and being addressed through a separate IDA project. Consideration will also need to be
given to charging for family planning services. The success of social marketing schemes
for contraceptives suggests that this may be a viable option. At the same time a pilot
scheme to charge for injectables and surgical methods may merit consideration in a future
population project.
H.           Bank Performance
26.          The Bank has made a positive contribution to the development of the
population and family planning programs in Kenya. Through the project it has made a
positive contribution to institutional development of both the NCPD and the Division of
Family Health. Bank staff have contributed to the success of the project through
supportive working relationships and professional advice including the exceptionally
insightful OED report on the First Population Project (Credit 468-KE). The Bank played
a leading role in establishing a successful policy dialogue with both NCPD and the MOH.
Nevertheless, some shortcomings were evident: in the early years of the project there was
little dialogue with policy makers in the MOH. Bank staff were concerned primarily with
project implementation and far less with the social and political changes in the
environment. Furthermore, relationships with the Nursing Division were strained and this
led to a virtual boycott of the project by the nurses, who were the main service providers
of rural health services. The following lessons have been learned from project
implementation:
(a)   Design of a project with two independent parts is difficult to
supervise. One agency should have overall responsibility for project
implementation;
(b)   More attention should be paid to Audit Reports. Audit Reports
for the IRHFP project were about 30 months overdue at closing.



- 8 -
Although the audit reports have been submitted subsequently the
Bank should have taken a stricter stance. Suspension of
disbursements when audit reports became overdue should have
taken place;
(c)    Supervision of the project, particularly around the time of the
amendment, included several short visits by the Project Officer and
Public Health Specialist. This flexible approach enabled closer
follow up. Supervision missions should, as far as logistically and
financially possible, be fielded at flexible and appropriate intervals
for timely intervention in prevention of implementation problems;
and
(d)   Budgetary constraints hampered supervision during the last three
years of project implementation. Often supervision was in
conjunction with that of other projects or in conjunction with
preparatory activities. The past norm of 10+ staffweeks per year is
totally inadequate to effectively supervise social sector projects.
I.           Borrower Performance
27.          The performance of both the NCPD and the MOH was unsatisfactory at
the beginning of the project. The NCPD took a while to start up and even then its staff
were young and inexperienced and its Director was not of a sufficiently senior rank so as
to have access to key officials in other government ministries. These issues were slowly
resolved over time. At the conclusion of the project, the NCPD had become an effective
national population agency. At the MOH there was initially no dialogue between IDA
and key government officials. Once this was established there was a more widespread
interest in the implementation of the project and this in turn led to support for the family
planning program.
28.          The question of audit however, was most disturbing. Neither NCPD nor
MOH staff paid serious attention to audits. As a result queries from the Auditor-General
remained unanswered for long periods. Furthermore, delays in the Auditor General's
office also were substantial and this further aggravated the situation. Both NCPD and
MOH staff, on the other hand, have shown an ability and willingness to follow guidelines
in procurement. There were no significant procurement problems during the
implementation of the project.
J.           Proiect Relationship
29.          Relationships between the Bank, NCPD and the MOH have been
excellent. Close ties have also been established with the Ministry of Finance.
K            Consultng Services
30.          Despite a provision of up to 16 staff-years of consulting services utilization
has been poor in all areas except local consultants and those associated with civil works.



-9 -
The easy availability of donor funds for technical oriented consultancies together with
reluctance of the Borrower to utilize IDA funds resulted in poor utilization in this
category but with little detriment to the project.
L            ,Project Documentation and Data
31.          Original documentation for the project was adequate. A number of
working papers and an implementation volume were prepared. Documentation for the
amendment was also complete and thorough. The availability of these documents assisted
considerably in project implementation. All project documentation was freely made
available for preparation of this PCR. Discussions with key officials, including those since
transferred or retired, was arranged without any difficulty.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1238-E)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Two reports have been prepared: Part A by the NCPD and Part B by the MOH
Part A
1.    Project Design
(i)    The design of Part A of the project was such that the Ministry of Health
National Family Welfare Center, Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development and six Non-Governmental Organizations were identified to
undertake an interagency information and education program on
population and family planning and to improve the health and family
planning services in the rural areas. The NGOs included Family Planning
Association of Kenya (FPAK), Kenya Catholic Secretariat (KCS),
Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organization (MYWO), National Christian
Council of Kenya (NCCK), Protestant Churches Medical Association
(PCMA) and The Salvation Army (SA).
The Ministry of Health, National Family Welfare Center, was expected to
motivate the MOH staff to support family planning, strengthen the family
planning in-clinic and extension education, promote mass media support for
inter-personal communication on family planning and produce mass media
materials on family planning. The Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development's Rural Services Coordination and Training Unit was to
assemble the database required for program coordination and
implementation and to encourage its utilization through a training program.
The Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Home Affairs was
responsible for the National Council for Population and Development and
the Secretariat.
The FPAK's activities included organizing one workshop for private
doctors to encourage them to offer family planning services, organizing
workshops for members of parliament to enlist their support for Kenya's
population program, training of Traditional Birth Attendants in improved
family planning techniques and basic maternal and child health, organizing



- 12 -
in-service courses in family planing information and education for FPAK
staff, conducting evaluation of lay educator and youth programs before
expending them and designing, pretesting and producing materials for use
by FPAK's field educators. The Kenya Catholic Secretariat was to
implement the Family Life Education program which would increase
understanding of the population problem among Catholics and to educate
couples in the ovulation method of family planning.
Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organization, the largest women's organization
was responsible for the project on Maternal and Child Health and Family
Planning information and education. Training in MCH/FP and family
planning information and education was to be provided for the field staff,
leaders and the members of maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organization.
The National Christian Council of Kenya was to develop a curriculum and
train teachers in family life education methods.
The Adolescent Health and Family Planning Information and Education
Program was to be implemented by the Protestant Churches Medical
Association. The program aimed at encouraging members of the
Association to reach in- and out-of-schools youth in their areas. The
Salvation Army would conduct the Family Planning Information and
Education Program aimed primarily at men. Complementary family
planning services would also be provided, where needed, by the Army's
health staff.
Unprogramed activities were also to be implemented after they have been
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association.
(ii)   The design of Part B of the project took into account the following
aspects:
(a)   Extension of MCH/FP services.
(b)   Training in family planning for Family Health Field Educators,
Enrolled Community Nurses, Clinical Officers and Patient
Attendants at Rural Health Services.
(c)   Recruitment of staff by the National Family Welfare Center.
(d)   Reorganization of district-level management of Rural Health
Services.
(e)   Recruitment of staff for new and upgraded Rural Health Facilities
and for understaffed Rural Health Facilities.
(f)    Construction, equipment and furnishing of a new school for clinical
officers and a new school for Enrolled Community Nurses.



- 13 -
(g)   Training of patient attendants at the district level in simple curative
and maternal and child health treatments and training of tutors at
schools for Enrolled Community Nurses.
(h)   Expansion of the drug supply system.
(i)    Construction of Rural Health Facilities.
(j)   Improvement of transportation for Rural Health Services.
(k)   Improvement of maintenance of MOH buildings, equipment and
vehicles in rural areas.
(l)    Operation and expansion of the MOH's Health Information
System.
(m)   Expansion and improvement by the MOH's program of health
education.
(n)   Development and introduction of an experimental community-based
Health Care System.
(o)   Upgrading of dispensaries and health centers, conversion of
expansion of out-reach services of Non-Govemmental Agencies.
2.    Project Implementation
The Government Ministries and Non-Govemmental Organizations prepared
project proposals and implemented them with the guidance of the NCPD, the
Council's Executive Committee and Secretariat. In the 1982/83 financial year, the
Council met three times, whereas the Executive Committee and the IEC
Committee met four times. The projects approved by the Council were all geared
towards providing information and education to specific target groups so as to
increase their understanding of the implications of population growth on
development and overcome barriers leading to the adoption of the small family
size norm and increased rate of family planning practice.
The achievements of the project include: A major activity of the Council in
1982/83 was the development of the sessional paper on Population Policy
Guidelines. In the same year the Ministry of Health, National Family Welfare
Center, produced a newsletter, conducted a refresher course for Family Health
Field Educators and continued providing family planning services. The FPAK
conducted two refresher courses for the field educators. PCMA established the
project's areas. The Kenya Catholic Secretariat organized seminars to train nurses,
social workers, etc. on natural family planning. NCCK, during that year, organized
three orientation seminars for 94 officers.



- 14 -
In 1983/84, the Executive Committee met four times and the Council held its fifth
meeting. The NCCK organized workshops for primary and secondary school
teachers. PCMA trained the member of the Central Advisory committee and
trainers. It also produced information and education materials. The FPAK
organized refresher courses for field educators, Traditional Birth Attendants, etc.
The Association further organized several youth meetings and produced booklets,
car stickers and other motivational materials. The Salvation Army's activities in
that year centered on organizing and running seminars for youth workers and
leaders, divisional commanders, the Army's senior officers, etc.
In 1985/86, the Office of the President undertook the training of 896 out of 2,046
Chiefs and Assistant Chiefs so as to improve their administrative skills and to
involve them effectively in population regulation at the grassroots level. The
Ministry of Culture and Social Services through the Department of Adult
Education launched the Integrated Rural Health Family Planning Project. The
Department of Adult Education produced a training manual and trained 34
trainers. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting pretested radio programs
before they were aired.. The Ministry of Agriculture also initiated an Integrated
Rural Health Family Planning Project whose aim was to enable farmers and their
families to understand the relationship between family sizes, subdivision of land
and food production so as to create a positive attitude towards family planning.
The Ministry established teams of trainers, trained extension personnel and
produced training materials. The FPAK aired 20 radio programs in Kiswahili and
seven in local languages. The Association provided information and motivation to
the 300,000 show attendants. The field educators undertook community activities
relating to child survival in areas where infant mortality was high. The FPAK
reached 4,403 males who are regarded as major decision makers in families
through seminars and lecturers. Forty-nine journalists participated in two
workshops on family planning. In addition, the Association's personnel were
trained to upgrade their knowledge and management skills. The twelve static
clinics of the Association served about 27,152 family planning acceptors. The
number of out-reach clinics increased from 57 at the beginning of the 1985/86
financial year to 66 by mid-1986 due to the demand for family planning services in
the under-served areas. Maendeleo Ya Wanawake reached 117,697 men and
women out of a target of 145,900. Those reached had family planning motivation.
The Salvation Army reached 1,218 youth and 607 adults through family life
seminars. PCMA reviewed course materials, developed lesson plans, distributed 70
books and 70 charts and trained 78 out of 100 youth educators. The Kenya
Catholic Secretariat organized about 27 seminars which were attended by 1,361
youth, adults, teachers, nurses and nuns.
The NCCK in turn recruited additional project staff and held three regional
meetings and the National Advisory Committee which reviewed the project.
The NCCK also organized 39 marriage enrichment seminar for 5,173 women and
men. Family Life Education Program Week rallies were held in six locations. The
rally participants included church groups, christian union groups, women
development groups, etc.



- 15 -
Sixty-four seminars on responsible parenthood were organized for 13,989 boys and
girls. Finally, English radio programs featuring a number of youth issues were
aired. A workshop for 200 doctors was organized by the Kenya Medical
Association. During the year under review, the KMA had embarked on the family
planning motivation project for private medical practitioners in order to expand
family planning services. The Young Men's Christian Association started
implementing its Family Life Education Program whose aim was to increase the
youth's knowledge of population phenomena. YMCA had 26 branches with a
membership of about 50,000 people. Each of the 26 branches held a population
education seminar where an average of 200 people were reached. Through other
YMCA activities such as youth seminars, training of members and the Annual
General Meeting, about 5,000 people were reached. Finally, Kenya National
Union of Teachers' Project aimed at creating awareness of the relationship
between population dynamics and development. KNUT organized three seminars
in which 150 union members participated.
The Information, Education and Communication Committee of the NCPD on the
one hand reviewed the implementation process in the seven meetings it held from
the inception of the project up to August 1985. The Secretariat staff, on the other
hand, monitored the project's implementation. The World Bank (IDA) missions
appraised the project on the August 15-26, 1983, November 22 to December 2,
1983 and in January/February 1985.
3.    Project's Development Impact
The Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence Survey which was conducted in 1984
revealed that the majority of Kenyan women, i.e. 81 percent were aware of at least
one contraceptive method. The Contraceptive Prevalence Rate increased to 17
percent in 1984 from 7 percent in 1977/78. Considering that the project
contributed to averting births, the project positively influenced development. Put
differently, there is an association between the project's outputs and the country's
development.
4.    Lessons Learnt
(i)   Involvement of five Government Ministries and nine Non-Government
Organizations in an inter-agency information and education program on
population and family planning enabled many target audiences to be
reached.
(ii)   NCPD produced the NCPD logo, badges as well as a calendar. The
Salvation Army designed and produced brochures on the various family
planning methods. Through the IEC committee of the NCPD, delineation
of target audiences, dissemination of IEC messages and distribution of IEC
materials could easily be coordinated.
(iii)   A forum in which the implementing agencies reviewed project
implementation on a quarterly basis was found useful by the agencies. The



- 16 -
managers of the various projects supported by the council attended the
meetings.
5.    Evaluation of the Bank's Performance during the evolution and implementation of
the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the
future
(i)    The Bank, at the inception of the project, provided assistance in the
elaboration of the agencies' project activities on population and family
planning.
(ii)   The Bank further reviewed the project's implementation process and
suggested ways and means of enhancing it. The Bank, for instance, advised
on revising annual workplans, donor agencies' revision of financing plans to
correspond with the workplans and the need for NCPD to discuss with the
Treasury about the possibility of increasing annual budgetary allocations.
6.    Evaluation of the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be relevant for the future
(i)    The Republic of Kenya undertook the recruitment of nine qualified
personnel to man NCPD. The staff provided technical support to the
implementing agencies.
(ii)   The NCPD successfully organized the First National Leaders' Population
Conference in 1984. This activity increased the leaders' awareness of the
population problem and their support for family planning.
(iii)   The NCPD Secretariat evolved specialized divisions which focused on
specific activities.
Part B
1.    Project Design, Implementation and Impact
The design of the Second Population Project, which was an Integrated Rural
Health and Family Planning Project (IRHFP) was sound. Its implementation
arrangements were appropriate and the creation of a "Core Project Unit" and a
Project Steering Committee with the MOH with a Project Manager to oversee
implementation and monitoring of the various components made project reporting
easier and the overall management of the project feasible in the face of many
components. This latter factor was crucial in the re-programming of the project in
1988, which resulted in further expansion of the MOH's capacity to meet demand
for Family Planning Services.



- 17 -
2.    Development Impact and Lessons Learnt
The implementation of the IRHFP from September 1983 to December 31, 1990
had a positive impact in improving health status. Although the improvements
cannot wholly be explained by the various interventions of the project, it can quite
safely be stated that implementation of this integrated rural health and family
planning program with an NGO component played a positive role in:
(a)   reducing Infant Mortality Rate to 74/1000 by 1988;
(b)   Improving immunization coverage countrywide;
(c)   Improving accessibility of Family Planning Services to clients in rural areas;
and
(d)   Reducing national population growth rate to a current level of 3.34% p.a.
from 4% at the beginning of the 1980.
The major lesson learnt from the implementation of this project is that with good
project design and appropriate organizational arrangements a project with many
components can be implemented on an integrated basis.
(a)   Confirmation is hereby given that the information contained in Part III of
the PCR is adequate and accurate.
(b)   The analysis contained in Part I of the PCR is sound.
(c)   The Bank's performance during the evaluation and implementation of the
project was good. The various Bank Reviews and Appraisal Missions
during the life of the project were useful to the implementing officers and
provided important lessons for formulation and implementation of the
Third Population Project which is currently ongoing.
(d)   During the evolution and implementation of the Integrated Rural health
and Family Planning Project, the Borrower learnt many lessons in the area
of project design, preparation, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and
re-planning. These lessons proved useful during the Re-programming in
1988 where the Borrower played a very active role in directing the
allocation of the savings that had been realized as a result of exchange rate
fluctuations between the Kenya shilling and the SDR. The Borrower was
able for instance to introduce new items such as pharmaceutical drugs and
AIDS equipment during the re-programming.
Apart from the above involvement the Borrower was able to render periodic
progress reports as required by the World Bank. One weak area was the timely
rendering of Audit reports. This aspect is however not unique to the health sector
and was discussed between the World Bank, the Treasury, the line Ministries and
the Controller and Auditor General during the Country Implementation Review



- 18 -
(CIR) Meeting held on June 19, 1990. At this meeting, solutions to the problem
were presented and no further problems are anticipated in Population III and IV.
(a)   Relationship between the Bank and Borrower. Although the Bank was
firm in ensuring that the Bank rules and regulations were adhered to by
the Borrower, the relationships between the two parties can be described
as being "Mutually Reinforcing". The Bank supported the Borrower to
implement project activities within the framework of Bank Procurement
Rules and Regulations.
(f)    The co-financiers in this project played their desired role under the overall
coordination and supervision of the World Bank. The Borrower was
satisfied with the performance of the co-financiers during the evolution and
implementation of the IRHFP Project. The Borrower will use the
knowledge in this endeavor in future projects.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1238-KE
PART IIL STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Credits
Table 1: IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Credit No.          Year of       Purpose of
TiJt                App1nroval    proie                       Comments
Cr. 468 KE           1974         Development  Completed    Failed to
First Population                  Population                  reach
Project                           Program                     Population
objectives
Cr. 1904 KE          1988         Expansion of  ongoing       Implementation
Third Population                  Population                  ongoing
Project                           Program
Cr. 2110 KE          1990         Contraceptive ongoing       Implementation
Fourth Population-                Procurement                 ongoing
Project                           and further
expansion of
Population
Program



- 20 -
B.    Proiect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                     Date          Date          Date
Planed       Revised       Actual
Identification                           8/78           -            8/78
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                              8/79           -            8n9
Appraisal Mission                        9/80           -            9/80
Credit Negotiations                        -            -           5/4/82
Board Approval                          5/4/82          -           5/4/82
Credit Signature                           -            -          8/27/82
Credit Effectiveness                   11/24/82      2/24/82        2/9/83
Credit Closing                         12/31/86      12/31/89      12/31/90
Credit Completion                          -            -          4/31/91
The project took 8 years to complete (instead of three). The credit was amended in
1985 to respond to the changing attitude towards population in the country. New subprojects
like the introduction of Voluntary Surgical Contraception were added. These subprojects
required more time to complete; hence completion and closing dates were extended.



SAR ESTIMATES    0.3   2.4  3.2  17   23
ACTUAL          0.8   3.9   7.9   10.6  13.2  14.3  16.5  20.6  22.4
25
20        -      -__  -   t                                                            I
z 
0
x X
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984 1985 1986 1987  1988 1989 1990  1991  1992
YEARS
Bank STD      x--- Actual        SAR Estimates



_ 22 -
D.    Project Imn=ementation
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION OF COMPONENTS
Project Component          Planned             Actual        Months of
Completion          Completion   Delay
1. Family Planning         Annual              Annual        12
Demand Creation
2. Family Planning         12/85               12/88         36
Service
3. Manpower, Drugs         12/85               12/88         36
and Facilities
4. Support Systems         12/84               12/84         24
5. Experimental            12/85               12/89         48
Community Based
Health Care
6. Non Governmental        12/85               12/89         48
Organizations
7. Innovative Activities   12/85               12/88         36
Amendment
8. Service Delivery        12/88               12/90         24
9. Training                       CANCELED
10. Demand Generation      12/88               3/89          3
11. Studies                      CANCELED



- 23 -
E.    Project Costs and Financing
Table 5: PROJECT COST (USS Million)
Estimated                 Actual
Category                 Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total
Capital Goods
Civil Works               12.9     5.5      18.5   13.5    6.4       19.9
Furniture                 1.0      0.2      1.2    1.2      .3       1.5
Equipment                 0.8      2.1      2.9    0.8      2.7      3.5
Vehicle                   0.4      3.0      3.4     0       3.8      3.8
Technical Assistance      .0       .0       .0      0       0         0
Training and Evaluation   .6       .1       .7    .3         0        .3
Education Materials        2        0        2      .7       0        .7
Sub-Total                 16.7     11.0    27.7   16.5    13.2      29.7
Recurrent costs
Incremental Salaries      8.5       0       8.5    9.0       0       9.0
Incremental Operating costs   6.7  7.3      14.0   4.0      6.0      9.0
Innovative Activities     .4       .4       .8      0        0        0
Sub-Total                 15.6     7.7      23.3   13.0    5.0       18.0
Contingencies             2.3      1.1      3.5
Total Project costs      34.7      19.8     54.5   29.5    19        48.7
*Note: Average rate of Exchange rate: 1 USS = 13.781 KSH
Rate of Exchange: 1 USS = 10.0 KSH
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ Million)
Source of Funds    Planned (Apr. Report)   Revised (Amend)  Final (Actual)
IDA                   23.0               23.0            22.8
GOK                    10.5               7.8             7.4
Other Donors              24.8               23.7            18.5
Total Project Cost          61.3               54.5            48.7



- 24 -
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(USS Million)
Catezories                   Amount of the     Actual
Credit            Expenditure
Allocat
(Amended)
l(a) Vehicles                90,000.00         33Q708.94
l(b) Consultants Services    22,400.00         0
l(c) Incremental Salaries &  100,800.00        602,536.97
Allowances
l(d) Incremental Operating &  156,800.00       935,210.00
Maint. Costs
1(e) Uncommitted             716,800.00        414,509.91
l(f) Study Tours and Training    33,600.00     138,844.75
2(a) Civil Works             7,840,000.00      7,544,695.87
2(b) Furn. Equip. & Mater.   1,456,000.00       847,710.66
2(c) Vehicles                1,112,000.00       787,687.09
2(d) Consultants & Professional   1,112,000.00  1,943,012.45
Services
2(e) Incremental Salaries and  7,280,000.00     8,601,290.38
Allowances
2(f) Health Education materials   1,112,000.00
2(g) Study Tours             448,000.00
3 Refunding PPF              50,400.00
4 Unallocated                1,405,600.00
TOTALI/                      23,000,000.00      22,800,000.00
1/ Exact Figures not yet available.
Note: 1(f) and 2(g) combined
2(b) and 2(g) combined
US$ I =SDR .875 (average)



- 25 -
F.    Proiect Resua
Table 8: PROJECT BENEFITS
Indicators                 Estimates            Actual
Fertility Impact
1. Double Rural Health     300                  830
Facilities Offering
FP
2. Regularity of FP        75%                  all
service in RHFs
3. Contraceptive           12.5% to 20%         27%
Prevalence Rate
4. Awareness of FP         75% of Population    80%
Health ImRa,ct
1. Provision of            40,000 people        80,000
Basic Health Services
2. MCH/FP coverage         2,500,000            4,000,000



- 26 -
F.    Status of Credit Covenants
Table 9: COMPLIANCE W1TH CREDIT COVENANTS
Section/Covenant                                   Status of Compliance
3.01   Carry out all project components     S
efficiently
3.02   Efficient use of Technical           TA Fund not utilized
Assistance
3.03  Insurance of imported goods and       S
use of goods/services financed
exclusively for the project
3.04   Furnishing promptly plans,           NS
specifications, reports etc. for
project
3.05   Action to acquire land for           S
construction and operation of
project facilities
3.06   Maintenance of acquired land,        S
facilities, repairs, upgrade of
project facilities
3.07   Submission of plans and adequate     NS
maintenance of project institutions
including furniture/equipment
3.08   Furnish annual workplan consisting   S
of detailed annual planlbudget
3.09   Efficient operation of Core Project  S
Unit
3.10   Establish NCPD by Oct. 82 and        Established
maintain efficient operation
4.01   Maintenance of adequate              S
accounting records
4.02   Furnishing Audit Report for each     NS
fiscal year within 6 months of end
of that fiscal year



- 27 -
4.03   Provision of timetable for          N/A
implementing TA recommendations
within 3 months after completion
of TA report
4.04   Furnish Association with a Study    Not Done
on the causes of attrition of
Students by Decembei 1982
4.05   Engage qualified institution to     S
conduct Fertility & Mortality
Study during course of project
4.06   Carry out study on financing the    Not Done
expanding supply of drugs in the
borrower's facility. Study to be
completed by June, 1984



- 28 -
G.    Use of Resources
Table I0: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF/WEEKS
Orig  Rev   Actual  Actual  Planned   Planned   Planned
Plan  Plan          as % of  No. of    Travs      Cons
Rev     Trips
FY78 Pre-Appraisal    -   -    22.5       -        -         -         -
FY79 Pre-Appraisal    -   -    35.5       -        -         -         -
FY80 Appraisal      -     -    104.8      -        -         -         -
FY81 Appraisal      -     -    105.7      -        -         -         -
FY82 Appraisal      -     -    27.7       -        -         -         -
Negotiations                 7.1       -        -         -        -
Supervision                   9.0      -        -         -        -
FY83 Supervision    -     -    32.2       -        -         -         -
FY84 Supervision    -     -    30.3       -        -         -         -
FY85 Supervision    -     -    52.9       -        -         -         -
FY86 Supervision    -     -    29.1       -        -         -         -
FY87 Supervision    -     -    23.7       -        -         -         -
FY88 Supervision    -     -     10.7      -        -         -         -
FY89 Supervision    -     -    22.6       -        -         -         -
FY90 Supervision    -     -      8.5      -        -
FY91 Supervision   5.0   3.0    .3       8.3       -         -       1,345
FY92 Completion    7.0   7.0    3.3    47.1        -         -       2,690



- 29 -
Table I1: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
MISSION       MONTH/YEAR    NO. OF    STAFF TIME   PERFORMANCE
PERSONS   FIELD DAY            STATUS
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal Total
Supervision         7/82             3             13              MT
Supervision         11/82            3             12              MT
Supervision         8/83             2             10              MT
Supervision         11/83                                          MT
Supervision         3/84             2                             MT
Supervision         7/84             3             12              MT
Supervision          1/85            3             12              MT
Supervision         6/85             2             20              FMT
Supervision         4/86             3             10              MT
Supervision         9/86             5             10              MT
Supervision          1/87            3             10              MT
Supervision         6/87             4             10              MT
Supervision         4/88             3             10              MT
Supervision         10/88            2             10              MT
Supervision          1/89            6             10              MT
Supervision         7/89             3             10              MT
Supervision         4/90             3             10               T
Supervision         10/90            3             4                T
PCR              2/91             2             10              MT
Note: M - Manaseent; T - Technical






- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(CREDrr 1238-KE)
Participants in Completion Mission
A.    Participants
World Bank
Dr. V. Jagdish                         Senior Public Health Specialist
Mr. P. Godwin                          Population Specialist (RMEA)
NCPD
Mr. S. W. Ndirangu              -             Director
Mr. M. Chemengich                -            Deputy Director
Mr. L. Ettyang                   -            Head, Programs Division
MOH
Mr. S.J.M. Kalama                -            Chief Hospital Secretary
B.    Officials Consulted on Project Components
Part A
Mr. J. Hungu                     -            Former Director, NCPD
Mr. W. Obung                    -             Former Research Officer
Part B
Dr. W.K. Koinange                -            Former DMS
Dr. J. Maneno                    -            Former ADMS
Mr. E.M Kierieni                 -            Former Chief Nursing Officer



