Document of                            p
The World Bank                       C OPY
FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3269-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
April 14, 1982
This doumet has a restrtd dtrbutlon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offical duties Its contents may not otherwise be discloseld withw t World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units      -     Kenya Shillings (KSh)
KSh 1.00           -      US$0.101
US$1.00            -      KSh 10.00
US$1.00            -      SDR 0.85128
MEASURES
Metric                          British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)               -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)    -    0.39 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CO     -  Clinical Officer
DANIDA - Danish Agency for International Development
ECN    - Enrolled Community Nurse
FP     -  Family Planning
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
IDA    -  International Development Association
I&E    -  Information and Education
MCH    -  Maternal and Child Health
MOEPD  - Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MOOH    - Ministry of Health
NFWC   -  National Family Welfare Center
NGO    -  Non-Governmental Organization
ODA    -  British Overseas Development Association
RHC    -  Rural Health Center
SDP    -  Service Delivery Point
SIDA   - Swedish International Development Authority
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA  -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID  -  United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government         -        July 1 to June 30
1/ Since September 1981, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at
a rate of SDR = KSh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 10.00 has been used in
evaluating this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                 Government of Kenya.
IMPLEMENTING              National Council on Population and Development,
AGENCIES:                Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economic Planning
and Development, Non-Government Organizations.
AMOUNT:                   SDR 20.5 million (US$23.0 million equivalent).
TERNS:                    Standard.
PROJECT                   The proposed project would consist of two parts.
DESCRIPTION:             Part A would set up a new interagency information
and education program for the promotion of the
small family norm. Part B would strengthen rural
health and family planning services. The objectives
of the project are: (a) to continue the efforts
begun under the first IDA-financed project to reduce
fertility; and (b) to improve the accessibility and
quality of rural health services to reduce mortality
and morbidity in rural areas. The project would
have a duration of three years and constitutes the
first phase of a six-year program.
RISKS:                    The project faces two principal risks.  First, since
population growth is a sensitive issue in the pre-
vailing political climate and support for family
planning is developing very slowly, success of the
project is dependent upon strong and consistent
support of Government authorities for the
coordinating Council to be established under the
project. However, the project marks the beginning
of renewed Government efforts to reduce fertility
as stipulated in Kenya's Fourth Development Plan.
*                                     Second, as the capacity of the Ministry of Health
to utilize project resources effectively is
limited, the project is designed to strengthen the
implementation capabilities of the MOH through
substantial staffing and training components. The
MOH has agreed to a comprehensive management study
(about 3 months) to be conducted by consultants in
early 1982. Implementation of the recommendations
of the study is expected to strengthen MOH systems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:
Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million-
Components
Family Planning Information and Education   7.4             1.5         8.9
Family Planning Services                        0.9         1.1         2.0
Manpower and Training                           7.5         2.1         9.6
Drug Supplies                                   0.5         5.0         5.5
Rural Health Facilities Construction            3.1         1.5         4.6
Transport                                       0.6         2.0         2.6
Maintenance                                     2.4         1.1         3.5
Health Information System                       0.9         0.4         1.3
Health Education                                1.2         0.1         1.3
Experimental Community-Based Program            0.4         0.4         0.8
Support to Non-Government Organizations         2.9         1.3         4.2
Innovative Activities                          0.5          0.4         0.9
Total Base Cost                       28.3        16.9        45.2
Physical Contingencies                          1.3         0.7         2.0
Price Contingencies                             7.2         3.9        11.1
Total Project Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties1                   36.8        21.5        58.3
Taxes and Duties                       3.0          -          3.0
Total Project Cost                    39.8        21.5        61.3
FINANCING PLAN:                                                        % of Net
Local    Foreign    Total    Project Cost
---------------US$ million--------------
Government of Kenya                  6.5        4.0       10.5         18.0
IDA                                 16.6        6.4      23.0          39.4
SIDA                                 3.8        6.0        9.8         16.8
DANIDA                               5.8        2.7        8.5         14.6
USAID                                3.3        0.7        4.0          6.9
ODA                                   -         1.2        1.2          2.1
UNICEF                               0.3        0.4       0.7           1.2
UNFPA                                0.5       0.1        0.6           1.0
Project Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties                  36.8       21.5       58.3           100
Taxes and Duties                     3.0         -         3.0           -
Total Project Cost                  39.8       21.5      61.3
1/ Including Project Preparation Facility advance of US$332,000.



- iii -
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT:
Bank Group Fiscal Year:            19822 1983   1984   1985   1986  1987
Annual                      0.3   0.6    4.1    7.6    8.4   2.0
Cumulative                  0.3   0.9    5.0   12.6   21.0  23.0
RATE OF RETURN:   Not applicable.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT: Report No. 3049A-KE, dated April 14, 1982.
MAP: IBRD No. 13969.
2/ Disbursements from Project Preparation Facility.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 20.5 million (US$23.0
million equivalent), on standard terms, to assist in the financing of an
Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project. The Government of Kenya
would obtain cofinancing from SIDA, DANIDA, USAID, ODA, UNICEF and UNFPA in
an amount of US$24.8 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981, has been distri-
buted to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is
in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya is now nearing completion.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated indus-
trialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign, invest-
ment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be characterized
as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organizational
forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a significant
amount of Government participation and guidance. The country has made a
smooth transition to new leadership following President Kenyatta's death in
1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew
rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively.  The expansion of agricul-
ture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid
diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manu-
facturing was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand
due to rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production
was being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP per



- 2 -
capita in 1980 was US$420. Agriculture accounted for more than a third of
GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum products)
in 1978-81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been largely con-
fined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the principal source of
income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population live and work.
Keuya still has significant problems of poverty and underemployment. It is
estimated that about one-fourth of the population have incomes which place
them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world, This is, ironically,
partly the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general
living standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high fertility
rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 575,000
sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially productive. How-
ever, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 9% can be regarded
as high potential land, with 9% of medium potential and 81% low potential
arid- and semi-arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good
arable potential, and much of it is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in agri-
culture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even if
the non-agricultural sector were to grow very rapidly, it probably will be
unable to absorb all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising
urban unemployment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pres-
sure has already been created by the growing demand for social services,
especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income
and alleviate poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land
and education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments in
simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African
Community (EAC) market. The scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited, as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly depen-
dent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts, and therefore it
is vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth
it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic
inputs and increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural out-
put, which has averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This reflects
generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the structural



- 3 -
factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and institutional
support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impediments to
sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy and inade-
quacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the concentration of
land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in planning, and
execution of agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting agricultural
growth. Measures to deal with these problems are essential to revitalize the
agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
*           rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance of
payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average annual
rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume has grown more
slowly. In 1980, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some extent,
this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but
it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-
oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1981
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to decelerate in
mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-80, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The effects of these external shocks on balance-of-payments and
incomes were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and maize pro-
duction. As a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.1% in 1979 and about 4.0% in
1980. GDP growth is estimated to have recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.2%,
still not substantially greater than population growth. The trade deficit
rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted.
The balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of
US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while
reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion of
the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program
of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in imports and
reductions in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit in 1979. This,
together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of
about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in
the balance-of-payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum
prices, combined with the need for additional food imports, resulted in a 25%
rise in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%, this was
not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost
US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of US$195
million in foreign exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1981 indi-
cate a moderate reduction in the deficit to about US$750 million.



- 4 -
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating
poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of
social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solutions. It is sharply focussed,
explicit in its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints
on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significiant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a
National Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land
use intensification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that
marketing and pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of
domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made more
competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and exten-
sion services are to be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers.
Finally, in addition to projects to increase larger scale commercial and
smallholder production, a series of integrated rural development projects in
semi-arid areas is proposed to redress the neglect in these areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transi-
tion from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency
and export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of
tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a
five-year period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over
the next few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is
likely to be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protec-
tion. The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that review
and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government partici-
pation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be
centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a
more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and inter-
vention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment
incentives to encourage employment and decentralization.  Finally, while
there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can
play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recommenda-
tions for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical support
and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous
Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African
countries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely



- 5 -
high (3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors, and even
greater efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in
fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and had already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The Sessional Paper identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and
medium-term problems in a frank and consistent manner.  It offers, among
other things, a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the
country's urgent financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and
balance-of-payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined in
the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and admini-
strative adjustments. In order to do so, it has devised and is executing a
program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves: (a) revising of the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the country's
new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's creditworthiness by
improving external debt management and introducing better planning and con-
trol of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of rationalization of
the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports and ensuring that
exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising interest rate policy
to ensure that it is consistent with development objectives. The program
has, on the whole, been carried out satisfactorily. However, actions have
been slower than anticipated in some areas and more rapid in others. While
the general thrust of the program has been maintained, attempts to execute
the policy measures have revealed some weaknesses in planning and administra-
tion that need to be remedied.
21.       A second structural adjustment lending operation is now under
discussion which, in addition to supporting continuation of the process of
rationalization of the system of industrial protection and improvement of
incentives for export, will include measures aimed at revitalizing the agri-
cultural sector, increasing domestic supplies of energy and encouraging con-
servation and policy initiatives in population.
22.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance-of-payments over the longer term, the first years of
the 1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for the
Kenyan economy. The prospect is for an unfavorable world environment in
which the country's international terms of trade are likely to continue to
deteriorate. In addition, debt service obligations will be high because of
high borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past
three years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely
to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing revenues and



demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context that critical
policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental restructuring of the
pattern of development. Kenya's easy options have been exhausted and the
Government must now come to grips with the country's basic structural
problems.
23.       Given the adverse external circumstances, it is unlikely that posi-
tive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83. Ilowever,
growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward provided the
Government's structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate
external assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's
terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should
decelerate, and current account deficits should remain stable over the next
few years. It should, therefore, be possible to follow gradually more expan-
sionary policies and a growth rate of GDP around 5% per year should be
attainable during the second half of the decade. A feasible growth scenario
would then be one in which GDP increases at a pace equal to that of popula-
tion in the years 1982-83, then gradually accelerates, averaging about 4% per
year during the first half of the decade and over 5% by the end of the
decade.
External Debt
24.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.7% in 1977 to about 12.2% in 1981. This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase steadily from about 15% in
1982 to a peak of 21.5% in 1991. Debt service payments to the Bank in 1981
accounted for 14.3% of total debt service payments; the IDA share was 1.2%.
The Bank's share of total debt service payments is expected to rise to about
22.8% by 1986, while IDA's share would rise to 1.3%. The Bank is currently
holding 19.4% of Kenya's total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and
IDA 10.7%. The Bank's share is expected to rise to 24% and IDA's to about
12.5% by 1986. The expected rise in Bank exposure is attributable largely to
anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor,
however, is the gradual switch from other donors from loans to straight
grants (including conversion of some loans to grants).  Because of the long-
term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's development program will require
substantial financing in excess of public savings and available non-Bank
Group external capital combined, and we therefore expect to continue our
practice of financing a substantial portion of total project costs, including
some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined to the Executive
Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and in a state-
ment made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the positive results of
the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner States' decision, taken
upon the Mlediator's recommendation, that the East African Development Bank --
one of the former Community's institutions -- should continue, and a revised
charter to this effect has been enacted. The three Governments also
commented on the Mediator's proposal for the three Partner States and during



their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, decided to commence negotiations based
on the Mediator's proposals. They started on December 14, 1981 in Arusha and
continued in February in Kampala.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 38 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 35 IDA credits amounting to US$1,363.2 million, which
supported 66 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the benefici-
aries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of
the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit in
support of the Government's structural adjustment program was approved in
1980. A second program is at present under discussion with the Government.
Recent economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, including the energy sector, and the Basic Economic Report, now
nearing completion, is expected to address comprehensively the issues of
income distribution, population growth and appropriate long-term agricultural
and industrial policies.
28.       Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not
limited to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing
and their design have been influenced by the need to complement policy
actions under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has
thus been given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also has
been placed on sectors such as population and energy. Projects approved in
FY81 included a Fifth Education Project, a Railways Project, and a fourth
line of credit to the Agricultural Finance Company. So far in FY82, a
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, a Third Forestry Project and a
Cotton Processing and Marketing Project have been approved, while an Agricul-
tural Technical Assistance Project and the Second Structural Adjustment
Program are expected to be presented to the Board shortly. Operations that
have been appraised include an urban transport project, a telecommunications
project, and a fourth power project. Projects under preparation include a
grain storage and marketing project and an urban (small towns) project.
29.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in con-
trast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the more
pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints, procurement
problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local financing.
These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting reimbursement
claims have led to a deteriorating disbursement record. A comparison with
the disbursement rate for the total of other loans/credits in the East Africa
region indicates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement rate was 38.6% as against
20.7% for the region; while in 1980, Kenya's disbursement rate had decreased



- 8 -
to 8.5% as against 16.5% for the region. An in-depth review of the causes of
the poor project implementation performance and poor disbursements, has been
undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions, were
discussed with the Government in March 1982, at a country implementation
review meeting (CIR). The discussions were frank and constructive, and the
Government informed the Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve
performance. These included:
(a)   A task force had been established to monitor the administration of
agencies in seeking reimbursement from the Bank Group. The use of
Procedure III (direct payment to suppliers) would be extended to
more projects;
(b)   A Project Implementation Committee will be set up by June 1982,
comprising the three Permanent Secretaries of the coordinating
ministries (Office of the President, Finance and Planning) with a
permanent secretariat. A detailed reporting system will be
established. The Office of the President will be in overall charge
of this operation;
(c)    The Government is establishing priorities for rationalizing the
existing project commitments in order to live within present
financial and administrative limitations. The Government will
consider reducing the scope of some projects, eliminating some
altogether, and stretching out the implementation periods of others.
Some decisions on Bank Group projects were agreed during the CIR
between the Government and the Bank Group, including, for example,
the cancellation of a large portion (about $23 million) of the Sugar
Rehabilitation Project. It was further agreed to have another
meeting in September 1982 to review more projects in the same
fashion.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$59.1 million for eight operations
in Kenya. These include loans for five companies: Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburi Portland Cement Company, Ltd. Also
included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya, a
US$5.0 million credit line to the Commercial Finance Company of Kenya and
US$1.3 million in equity to the Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of
December 31, 1981, IFC held for its own account US$44.3 million comprising
US$35.0 million of loans and US$9.3 million of equity. A Summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SECTORS
Background
31.       Rapid population growth remains one of the most serious problems
facing Kenya.1 Kenya's population was close to 16 million in 1981 and its
1/ A detailed analysis of the population situation in Kenya, and its
interrelationship with development is contained in a recent World Bank
report entitled "Population and Development in Kenya" (Report No.
2775-KE, May 1980).



- 9 -
current rate of increase, 3.9% per annum, is the highest recorded for any
country.  It affects all aspects of the economy:  balance of payments defi-
cits are aggravated by food imports in a country traditionally an agricul-
tural exporter, efforts to provide adequate levels of health services, educa-
tion, housing and other social infrastructure are seriously undermined,
burgeoning urban unemployment persists, particularly among youth, and pres-
sures on arable land and natural resources lead to unacceptably low levels of
subsistence, especially among the rural population. A continuation of popu-
lation growth at the present rate would imply that Kenya would have about 250
million inhabitants by 2050, and one billion by 2085, roughly equal to the
present population of China.
32.       Kenya's rate of population growth has been increasing since the
1950s. This increase has been due mainly to a rapidly falling mortality
rate, but also due to a rise in fertility of some 20-25 percent over the last
three decades. These phenomena are closely linked to improved health
services and general living conditions, which have enhanced the biological
ability of women to bear children in a situation of very high desired family
size. Further improvements in health services and general living conditions
need not, however, lead to further increases in the rate of population
growth, provided that the average desired family size falls, and that good
quality family planning services are made widely available. In Kenya, there
are already at work some factors that tend to reduce desired family size.
Urbanization is one such factor, as it has been observed that women in metro-
politan areas have a total fertility rate one-third lower than that of rural
women. Education of women beyond four years of schooling is another such
factor. Falling rates of infant and child mortality have been observed in
other countries to be followed, with a time lag, by a decrease in the number
of desired pregnancies. These factors need to be reinforced by a greatly
stepped-up government effort to inform and educate the public on population
issues, family planning services, and benefits from smaller families.
Family Planning
33.       Voluntary efforts in family planning (FP) began as early as 1955 in
Nairobi and Mombasa where private FP associations initiated efforts to prov-
ide information and modern birth control methods to people of all income
levels. In 1961, these Associations formed the Family Planning Association
of Kenya (FPAK). In the public sector, Kenya was the first sub-Saharan
African country to adopt an official family planning program. Because the
1963 demographic survey revealed Kenya's population growth rate to be 3% per
annum, and attendant socio-economic pressures were recognized as serious con-
straints in reaching medium- and long-term development goals, the Government
officially recognized the importance of family planning and announced in 1966
the adoption of family planning as part of its development policy. Responsi-
bility for implementing the program was assigned to the Ministry of Health
(MOH). In late 1966, MOH announced its intention of making family planning
an integral part of its maternal and child health (MCH) services and began to
train health staff in FP techniques. The national program was officially
launched in 1967, under the following guidelines: (i) MCH and FP services
were to be integrated; (ii) acceptance of the services was to be wholly
voluntary, and individual customs and values were to be fully respected; and
(iii) emphasis was to be placed on reduced family size and wider spacing of
children. Following the 1969 census, which confirmed earlier survey findings



- 10 -
of high fertility in Kenya, a senior administrator was appointed to head the
MCH/FP unit and to draft a five-year program for FY75-79. This program was
prepared and implemented with assistance from IDA and several other external
assistance agencies (paragraphs 36-37). In 1978, while introducing the
Fourth Development Plan (FY79-83), President Moi identified the heavy burden
of population growth as one of the highest priority problems to be solved.
de drew attention to the long-term consequences of Kenya's high population
growth and provided a strong statement of the Government's intention to
achieve a reduction in the growth rate. To this end, the Government has
resolved to strengthen the ongoing MCH/FP program and to undertake a major
new broad-based interagency Information and Education (I&E) program. How-
ever, due to political sensitivity, progress has been impeded.
34.       The major problems facing the Government in providing improved FP
services are: (i) inadequate access by rural families to such services; (ii)
low quality of service due to insufficient and poorly-trained staff, espe-
cially in the rural areas; and (iii) the almost universal desire for large
families. These are long-standing problems which directly affect the accept-
ance and use rates of family planning techniques. Whereas about 86% of the
MOH Rural Health Centers (RHC) offer daily FP services, only about 12% of the
MOH dispensaries and less than 1% of the Non-Governmental Organization (NGO)
rural health facilities offer such service. A limited number of MOH and NGO
facilities offer part-timne FP services, but these are generally unreliable.
Even the facilities which offer daily FP services are not actually able to
provide them on a continuous basis. With too few facilities and a widely
dispersed population, many people have to travel long distances to obtain FP
services (paragraph 42). Frequently only one nurse in each facility is
trained to provide FP services, and other staff are not permitted to assume
the nurse's responsibilities when she is on leave (about four months of the
year), not even to resupply or dispense pills. Furthermore, although ECNs
are responsible for FP services at RHFs, their basic training does not
adequately cover FP and needs to be supplemented by in-service FP instruc-
tion. This lack of quality service and its discontinuity is a serious
deficiency, making the program largely ineffective. This situation is
compounded by a negative attitude on the part of many health field staff
towards FP services.
35.       The desire for large families in Kenya is deeply-rooted.  Of all
the married women interviewed in the Kenya World Fertility Survey (1977-78),
only 17 percent stated that they wanted no more children, and even among
those with eight children, only 48 percent wanted no more. The mean desired
family size was estimated at 7.2. These attitudes towards fertility are
reflected in weak community support for FP services and in the lack of
general awareness of population pressure. This pattern is being experienced
by many national programs elsewhere in Africa and can be remedied only by
intensive motivational programs and improved coverage.
36.       The first IDA-financed project, carried out during 1974-79, was
designed to help the Government overcome these problems (Project Performance
Audit Report, Report No. 3536, June 28, 1981). Specific project components
included: (i) introduction of full-time MCH/FP services in 400 MOH
facilities; (ii) establishment of eight Enrolled Community Nurse training
schools; (iii) in-service FP training for nursing staff; (iv) the introduc-
tion of a new category of MCH/FP motivational workers--the Family Health



- 11 -
Field Educators; (v) strengthening of the MOH's capacity to produce health
educational materials; and (vi) the establishment of a central planning and
support unit for the MCH/FP program, the National Family Welfare Center
(NFWC). The total project cost, estimated at US$38.8 million, was financed
by the Government, IDA and six other external aid agencies (DANIDA, Federal
Republic of Germany, ODA, SIDA, UNFPA and USAID).
37.       The project's programmatic targets were generally achieved, but its
demographic goals were not. In predicting a decline in the population growth
rate from 3.3 percent in 1974 to 3.0 percent by 1979, the project had assumed
that the birth rate would decline from 50 to 47 per thousand and the death
rate would remain at 17 per thousand. Instead, by 1979, the birth rate had
climbed to about 53 per thousand and the death rate had fallen to about 14
per thousand. The percentage of married women of reproductive age using a
modern method of contraception remained very low, at about 5 percent.
Performance in maternal and child health was much more encouraging. It is
estimated that about 65-70 percent of pregnant women and about 55-60 percent
of newborn children are being reached by health services. In retrospect, two
lessons stand out: (i) the project concentrated too heavily on the supply
side of FP services; and (ii) the project relied excessively on the MOH as
the vehicle to achieve the objectives.  Hence, the opportunity to tap the
resources of other Government agencies and the private sector was lost. It
is now recognized that a broad involvement of organizations other than MOH is
important for the achievement of fertility reduction objectives, which pre-
supposes wide community cooperation and support.
38.       A large increase in contraceptive use will not occur in Kenya until
the average desired family size starts to fall from its present very high
level. To facilitate this decline, parents' awareness of the benefits which
would accrue to their families by limiting family size needs to be enhanced.
Thus, the need exists to establish a multi-media information and education
program. Accessibility to FP services in rural areas is still well below
potential, requiring extension of provision of FP services to all existing
and planned MOH rural health facilities on a continuous basis, and, at the
same time, making them more readily available by extending the number and
range of well-trained MOH personnel permitted to provide such services.
Rural Health
39.       As with FP services, the expansion and improvement of rural health
services is an explicit and high priority goal of the Government's Fourth
Plan. The bulk of the disease burden in rural areas, where about 85% of the
population lives, consists of diseases that either could be prevented or sub-
stantially reduced in their gravity through simple, primary level interven-
tions. These diseases include acute respiratory infections, malaria, skin
diseases, diarrhea, and intestinal worms, and account for about 87% of the
outpatient cases treated in rural health facilities. By improving the
coverage and quality of rural health services, the incidence of these common
diseases could be lowered, thereby reducing pressure on hospitals and improv-
ing the overall allocation of resources in the rural health sector.
40.       While there has been a marked improvement in the health of Kenya's
population over the last three decades, much more needs to be done before its
health indicators approach those of developed countries. The infant



- 12 -
mortality rate, though low by African standards, is still more than four
times the average for developed countries. Moreover, with the high rate of
population growth, a considerable effort needs to be made merely to maintain
the present health service standards. With the population doubling about
every 18 years, proportional increases are needed in the numbers of health
service facilities, staff, drugs, support systems and other basic health
inputs, if deterioration of services is to be prevented.
41.       For purposes of administration, the MOH has subdivided the country
into 254 areas known as rural health units. In the typical unit, a Rural
Health Center (RHC) is the center of a cluster of several dispensaries which
provide first contact outpatient curative services, and in some cases,
MCH and FP services. RHCs provide a wider range of outpatient curative
services than dispensaries, and usually a full range of MCH/FP services.
Each RHC is headed by a Clinical Officer (CO)--a paramedic trained to perform
most of the functions normally performed by physicians in developed
countries. The CO is assisted by several Enrolled Community Nurses (ECNs)
and by one or two Family Health Field Educators whose main task is to recruit
MCH and FP clients. A dispensary is usually staffed by an ECN and a patient
attendant. The main referral points for RHCs and dispensaries are at
district hospitals, which provide a wide range of outpatient services, as
well as pediatric, medical, general surgical and obstetrical and gynaecolo-
gical inpatient services.
42.       By 1980, there were about 830 MOH rural health facilities in Kenya,
including about 220 RHCs and 610 dispensaries. In addition, there were about
375 rural health facilities operated by NGOs, most of them Church-sponsored.
For the country as a whole, over 40 percent of the households were within 4
km of a rural health facility, and nearly 80 percent were within 8 km. The
percentage of households farther than 8 km from a facility ranged from about
8 percent in Central Province to almost 45 percent in Eastern Province. In
addition to the insufficient number of health facilities in rural areas, many
facilities occupy old and sub-standard housing which badly need rehabili-
tation and improved maintenance, as well as vehicles and equipment to enhance
and modernize their operation.
43.       Despite considerable training efforts during the last decade, sub-
stantial shortfalls of staff remain for both MOH and NGO health facilities
which adversely affect the quality of service. Current shortfalls for the
two main categories of staff at MOH rural health facilities, COs and ECNs,
amount to about 30 percent and 35 percent, respectively. The quality of
services also suffers because of deficiencies in basic training, e.g.,
insufficient training of COs in obstetrics and gynaecology and MCH/FP, and
inadequate training of ECNs in diagnosis, prescription and FP services.
In-service and refresher training for all rural health facility staff has
been very limited. Another important factor is the irregular availability of
drugs. On any given day, about 25 percent of the facilities are closed
because of lack of drugs. Although some of the shortages are due to insuffi-
cient budgets, drugs could be made more available through a more equitable
distribution at different levels of the health system, emphasis on the use of
generic drugs, and the improved monitoring of supplies.
44.       Consolidation of existing rural health services through better
staffing, improved drug supplies, and physical upgrading of substandard
facilities is required. Such efforts would result in more efficient utiliza-



- 13 -
tion of existing facilities and a much enlarged service capacity. Consoli-
dation would be aided by strengthening support systems (transport, mainten-
ance, health information and health education), and reorganization of
district management. Moreover, experimental community-based health care
systems should be promoted as a potentially important, cost effective addi-
tion to the formal health system. Support for rural health and FP services
provided by NGO facilities is also important.
Organization and Financing
45.       The civil service head of the MOH is the Permanent Secretary, and
the professional branch is headed by the Director of Medical Services. At
the provincial level, the Provincial Medical Officer of Health is responsible
for all health services. In each district, health services are administered
by a District Medical Officer of Health. The operations of the MOH's head-
quarters have been hampered by shortages of qualified staff, unclear
reporting lines, insufficient delegation of authority, inadequate financial
planning and control mechanisms, and other managerial problems. With a view
to improving its overall organization and management, the MOH has agreed to a
comprehensive management study to be conducted in 1982 by outside consul-
tants, financed by SIDA (about 3 months). Once the study is undertaken, the
MOH will prepare a timetable for the implementation of those recommendations
of the consultants' report to which MOH, SIDA and IDA agree, not later than
three months after completion of the final version of the report (Section
4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
46.       The MOH's share of total Government expenditures was 6.2 percent in
FY81, and current forward budget projections indicate that it should reach
6.8 percent by FY84. About 70% of the MOH's budget is absorbed by hospitals,
located mainly in the urban areas. For equity and efficiency, it is
important that future additions to the MOH budget be largely directed towards
rural health and preventive/promotive services. About 18 percent of MOH's
development budget for FY81 was financed by external assistance, most of
which (97 percent) was earmarked for rural health facilities. The chief con-
tributors were SIDA and DANIDA (68 percent).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Kenya with
the assistance of local and foreign consultants. The Government presented
the project to IDA with a request for financing in July 1980. A joint
appraisal mission with representatives of SIDA, DANIDA, USAID, ODA and the
UNFPA was conducted in October/November 1980, under the leadership of IDA
staff. Subsequently, the UNICEF expressed interest in participating in the
project. A follow-up mission visited Kenya in May 1981. Funds under the
Project Preparation Facility have been provided for start-up activities.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from March 29 to April 2, 1982.
The government's delegation was led by Mr. G.R. M'Mwirichia, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Health. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled: "Kenya:
Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project, No. 3409A-KE, dated



- 14 -
April 14, 1982, has been distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
A credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a
supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The objective of the project is to reduce fertility and
mortality/morbidity in rural areas by increasing demand for, and improving
the accessibility and quality of family planning (FP) and rural health
services. This objective will be achieved by:
(a)  establishing a new, broad-based program of information
and education (I&E) activities on population and family
planning;
(b)  increasing the number of rural health facilities
offering FP services, with trained personnel;
(c)  reducing staffing shortfalls in rural health facilities,
through deployment of additional staff, construction of two
new government paramedic schools, and training;
(d)  providing rural health facilities with a steady
supply of essential drugs;
(e)  improving and upgrading dispensaries of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO), and
construction of one MOH Rural Health Center (RHC), four
dispensaries, and staff housing;
(f)  strengthening MOH support systems - transport, maintenance,
health information, and health education;
(g)  establishing an experimental community-based health care
system;
(h)  supporting NGO rural health services; and
(i)  promoting innovative activities to be identified during
project implementation.
Component (a), aimed at creating demand for FP services, will be denoted as
Part A of the project. The remaining components, aimed at increased accessi-
bility and higher quality services in family planning and rural health, will
be denoted as Part B. The two Parts are complementary and mutually rein-
forcing. The project, to be carried out over three years, would be the first
phase of a six-year program.
Detailed Features
49.       Part A - Family Planning Demand Creation.  The new National Council
on Population and Development, located in the Office of the Vice President
and Ministry of Home Affairs, will be responsible for implementing the I&E
program on population and family planning. Its main functions will be to



- 15 -
provide policy guidance for the program, determine its scope and direction,
approve annual plans and budgets prepared by participating agencies, oversee
the management of funds, and coordinate, monitor and evaluate program activi-
ties. The Council will consist primarily of representatives of the partici-
pating agencies. The full Council will meet only a few times a year, with
most decisions taken on its behalf by a five-member Executive Committee con-
sisting of representatives of MOH and the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development (MOEPD), two NGOs, and the head of the Council's Secretariat to
be established under the project. Council members will be appointed and
appropriate policy and procedural guidelines adopted by October 1, 1982 and
the Council will be maintained and continue its operations until the Closing
Date (Section 3.10, Draft DCA). The Secretariat, with about seven profes-
sional staff, three administrative officers and accountants, and support
staff, would perform the day-to-day operations of the Council. Staffing of
the key positions in the Secretariat will be a condition of Credit effective-
ness (Section 6.01 (a), draft DCA).
50.       The content of the I&E activities included in the proposed project
has been specified for the first year only. In subsequent years, content
and the specific items to be financed by the Government and participating
donors would be determined by the Council, annually reviewed by the donors,
during the preparation of annual plans and budgets, conditioned by achieve-
ments in previous years. In an effort to change deeply-rooted attitudes
towards high fertility, the I&E program would address wide and
previously-neglected audiences, including adult men and women, youth, profes-
sional, civic and other influential local groups, current FP users (to rein-
force use) and former acceptors, and MOH and other government staff. To
reach the desired variety of audiences, methods for disseminating information
on family planning would range from interpersonal to multi-media communi-
cation, including workshops, newsletters, audio-visual materials, billboards,
and post-partum education programs. In the long run, as the program
develops, it is expected that creation of family planning demand would be
sought by the Council through legislation to provide an incentive/
disincentive system for encouraging small family size and to enhance the
status of women.
51.       During the first year, the Rural Services Coordination and Training
Unit in MOEPD would assemble the data-base required for program implementa-
tion and coordination, and encourage its utilization through an information
and training program. The MOH National Family Welfare Center (NFWC) would
(i) prepare newsletters on family planning and test their impact on MOH
staff, (ii) strengthen MOH in-clinic and extension education on family plann-
ing through MOH training programs, support materials for MOH service and
health education staff, a pilot scheme to stimulate local group discussion
via audio cassettes, and a pilot post-partum education program, and (iii)
provide support for interpersonal communication on family planning through
decentralized use of mass media, and produce mass media materials such as
films, cinema slides and, as an experiment, billboards at locations
frequented by men. The Family Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK) would (i)
conduct workshops to encourage private doctors to offer FP services and to
enlist the support of Members of Parliament for the Council's I&E program,
(ii) train traditional birth attendants in family planning, the I&E program,
improved delivery techniques and basic maternal and child health, (iii) pro-
vide in-service training for FPAK staff and support materials for its field



- 16 -
educators, and (iv) carry out or subcontract evaluations of FPAK programs.
The project would support the Kenya Catholic Secretariat's Family Life
Education Program which is designed to increase Catholic's understanding of
the population problem and to educate couples in methods of family planning
acceptable to Catholics. The MCH/FP and I&E services program of the
Maendeleo ya Wanawake, Kenya's largest women's organization, would provide
training for field staff, local leaders, and the members of the organi-
zation. The project would support the activities of the National Christian
Council of Kenya which conducts a curriculum development program and teacher
training in family life education methods, including workshops for tutors in
teacher training schools, headmasters of secondary schools, and education
officials and leaders at the district and provincial level. The Adolescent
Health FP and I&E Program of the Protestant Churches MedicalAssociation
intends to encourage its members to reach youths in their areas through work-
shops and training courses for heads of participating institutions, head-
masters and teachers. The Salvation Army FP and I&E Program intends to carry
out an education program, aimed at men, with the help of male workers who
would be recruited and trained by trainer/supervisors. Complementary FP
services would be provided by Salvation Army health staff. In addition, a
component of Unprogrammed Activities would be included for activities as
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
52.       Part B - Family Planning and Rural Health Services.  The project
would substantially increase the availability of FP services in rural areas
by increasing the number of health facilities offering such services and
widening the range of trained personnel to provide them. Funds for equip-
ment, and operating and maintenance (O&M) costs would be provided under the
project to establish about 300 new MCH/FP service delivery points (SDPs) in
existing MOH facilities, representing an increase of about 120% over the
present level. In addition, about 30 NGO health centers and dispensaries
would become MCH/FP SDPs. In keeping with MOH's new policy, service staff in
all MOH health facilities, in addition to nurses trained in family planning,
would be authorized to supply non-clinical contraceptives and to resupply
orals, and would be trained accordingly. Thus, the project would provide
funds for equipment, vehicles and O&M costs to increase the number of ECNs
trained in family planning by NFWC from 120 to 300 per year, introduce
in-service FP training for about 90 COs each year, and provide short-term
on-the-job training by district health staff for ECNs without FP training,
patient attendants, and Family Health Field Educators. The MOH would pre-
pare, by December 31, 1982, a detailed timetable for converting all MOH rural
health facilities into full MCH/FP SDPs (Schedule 2, Part B, Section 1, draft
DCA). To assist in this expanded effort in FP, funds would be provided for
short-term management consultant services for NFWC, limited research in
FP-related operations proposed by NFWC and approved by IDA, and attendance to
short FP workshops in other developing countries with FP experience.
53.       To reduce staffing shortfalls in rural health facilities, over a
hundred ECNs, patient attendants and subordinate staff would be deployed to
37 dispensaries to be upgraded under the project (paragraph 55), and, by
1984, about 45 COs, 500 ECNs, 16 Public Health Officers, 245 Public Health
Technicians, 50 Laboratory Technicians, 50 statistical/general purpose clerks
and 350 subordinate staff would be deployed to presently understaffed rural
health facilties. In order to improve MOH's information on the allocation of
rural health staff, MOH would set up a system, by December 31, 1982, to show



- 17 -
the number, type and posting by specific facility of rural health staff
(Schedule 2, Part B, Section 5, draft DCA). In addition, funds for civil
works, equipment, vehicles and O&M costs would be provided under the project
to establish a new school for COs in Western Province (65 students per year)
and a new ECN school (50 students per year). So as to reduce present rates
of attrition in such schools, MOH would carry out, by December 31, 1982, a
study of the causes of CO and ECN student attrition and possible remedies and
an investigation of the feasibility of shortening ECN training (Section 4.04,
draft DCA). By not later than December 31, 1982, MOH would select the speci-
fic locations for the two schools and engage architects to prepare designs,
cost estimates, and bid documents and to supervise construction (Section 3.07
(b), draft DCA). Short in-service training courses for about 1,000 patient
attendants would be provided at the district level, concentrating on simple
curative and MCH treatment, and refresher courses would be provided for
tutors at ECN schools (about 15 students each year) to update their skills in
diagnosis, prescription and MCH/FP services.
54.       Funds for equipment, vehicles and O&M costs would be included under
the project to support an expanded nationwide program to provide MOH rural
health facilities with a steady supply of essential drugs, to be packaged in
sealed kits for each facility and resupplied on the basis of patient atten-
dance reports. The Drug Management Unit in MOH (supported by DANIDA) would
be enlarged to manage this expanded drug supply system, and district Rural
Health Management Teams would be responsible for distribution, supervision,
reporting and forecasting needs. The program is presently being tested in
two pilot districts, with encouraging initial results. It is expected that
the system would be extended to all districts by mid-1985. Short training
and refresher courses in diagnosis and precription would be conducted at the
Rural Health Training Centers (RHCs with training capability) for COs, ECNs
and patient attendants in rural health facilities, and for COs and public
health nurses at district and provincial headquarters (totalling about 4,000
staff). In order to help MOH to advise the Government on the means of finan-
cing expanded drug supplies, MOH would, by June 30, 1984, carry out a
study, with terms of reference acceptable to SIDA, DANIDA and IDA, on the
options for financing the expanding supply of drugs (Section 4.06, draft
DCA).
55.       To expand and improve the number of rural health facilities in
priority rural areas, the project would provide funds for civil works, equip-
ment, vehicles and O&M costs for: (i) improvement of about 25 substandard
dispensaries (each with 3 staff houses); (ii) upgrading of about 37 dis-
pensaries in densely populated areas (each with 4 staff houses); (iii) con-
struction of one RHC and 4 dispensaries in unserved areas; and (iv) other
staff houses where their lack is a serious constraint to ECN recruitment. In
addition, about 30 NGO dispensaries and health centers would be improved.
The project's emphasis on dispensary improvement and upgrading reflects the
Government's high priority on the extension of rural health and MCH/FP
services below the RHC level where these services are already well
established. The results of a study by MOH to select the dispensaries to be
improved and upgraded and to determine the locations of new facilities,
including a mapping exercise based on the 1979 Population Census, would be
submitted to IDA for comments not later than December 31, 1982 (Schedule 2,
Part B, Section 9 (f), draft DCA).



- 18 -
56.       The project would strengthen MOH support systems in: (i) transport
for rural health services; (ii) maintenance of health facilities, equipment
and vehicles; (iii) health information; and (iv) health education. To
improve transport, the project would provide vehicles for district rural
health management teams and for provincial rural health supervisors, ambu-
lances for district and provincial hospitals, motor boats with ambulance
equipment for RHCs on the coast or lake, motorcycles for public health
technicians at RHCs and subcenters, and bicyles for ECNs at RHCs and dispen-
saries. Funds for civil works, equipment, vehicles and O&M costs would be
included in the project to establish six maintenance training schools, each
attached to an existing Rural Health Training Center or a district hospital.
Each school would function as a maintenance unit for its district, providing
training in: (i) maintenance and repair of health facilities, equipment and,
to a lesser extent, vehicles (36 maintenance technicians trained each year):
(ii) driving, first aid, and minor vehicle maintenance and minor repairs (120
MOH drivers trained each year); and (iii) use of health equipment, trouble-
shooting and minor equipment repairs. By not later than December 31, 1982,
the Government would select the school locations and engage architects to
prepare designs, cost estimates and bid documents and to supervise construc-
tion (Section 3.07 (b), draft DCA). In April 1980, two units in MOH formerly
entrusted with data collection were merged into a consolidated unit, the
Health Information System, to meet the information needs of MOH management
and to service as the focus for MOH and to serve as and to serve as the focus
for MOH research and evaluation activities. Under the project, funds for
vehicles, equipment and O&M costs would be provided to support this unit. In
addition, a Health Information System Advisory Committee would be established
to ensure coordination with other interested Government agencies and to pro-
vide a forum for drawing on experience outside Kenya. Funds would also be
included for fellowships and training, technical assistance, and studies.
Funds for equipment, vehicles and O&M costs would be provided under the pro-
ject to help strengthen the existing health education system by:
(i) improving the use of existing resources through increased staffing and
training; (ii) adapting health education to local cultures and languages; and
(iii) introducing more efficient forms of communications via radio and the
regular school curriculum.  To promote decentralization in health education,
MOH would establish positions for 7 provincial and 41 district Health
Education Officers by June 30, 1983 (Schedule 2, Part B, Section 13 (d),
draft DCA).
57.       In an attempt to provide primary health care over a wide area at
low cost, community-based health workers with limited training would be
supported under the project (equipment, vehicles and O&M costs) to provide
front-line services and to refer patients to rural health facilities and hos-
pitals. Although the NGOs have 14 such programs in Kenya, this would mark
MOH's first experimental steps in this area.   The workers would be part time
employees of the communities they serve, operating out of their homes in the
treatment of common ailments, health education, family planning counselling,
motivation and client follow-up, administration of simple vaccines, and
campaigns against communicable diseases. The MOH would support the program
through training, technical supervision, drugs and supplies, and evaluation.
The program would be organized at three levels, i.e. MOH headquarters,
districts and communities, and would be phased in gradually to cover about
400,000 people by 1988 (about 2% of that year's projected rural population).
It would be carefully monitored and evaluated by MOH before further expan-
sion.



- 19 -
58.       Support for NGO rural health services under the project would
represent an advance in the coordination of health services in rural areas.
The participating NGOs are coordinated by the Kenya Catholic Secretariat and
the Protestant Churches Medical Assocation, which would implement this proj-
ect component in coordination with MOH. Funds would be included in the
project for civil works, equipment, vehicles, and O&M costs for: (i) intro-
ducing MCH/FP services in 30 upgraded NGO RHCs and dispensaries; (ii) con-
verting 3 NGO nursing schools into standard MOH-type ECN schools; and (iii)
expanding NGO outreach services (i.e. 6 mobile clinics and 12 ECNs to provide
community-based health services). By December 31, 1982, the Kenya Catholic
Secretariat and the Protestant Churches Medical Association would, in
cooperation with MOH, submit the locations of the above facilities to IDA
(Section 3.07, draft DCA).
59.       A small portion of the total project cost (about 2%) would be
reserved for innovative activities, as yet unidentified, that would contri-
bute to the extension of rural health and FP services. Such activities could
include the extension of MCH/FP services to non-church NGOs or a study of the
present nutritional situation and possible interventions and would be subject
to approval by the cofinancier financing such activity.
Project Costs and Financing
60.       Total project cost net of US$3.0 million equivalent in taxes and
duties (and including project preparation advance expenditures) is estimated
at US$58.3 million equivalent, of which US$21.5 million, or about 37%, repre-
sents foreign exchange costs. Cost estimates are based on prices as of
November 1981. The contingency allowance of US$13.1 million equivalent,
representing 23% of total project costs, includes: (a) physical contin-
gencies estimated at 15% of the base cost for civil works, and 10% for furni-
ture and equipment; and (b) price contingencies averaging 24% of base cost
and physical contingencies.  Price contingencies for local costs were calcu-
lated on the assumption of a 13% inflation rate in 1981 and 1982, 9% in 1983,
and 8% annually thereafter.  Price contingencies for the foreign exchange
component were calculated on the assumption of an inflation rate of 9% for
1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% in 1983 and 6% annually thereafter.
61.       To finance the project, the Government of Kenya would contribute
US$10.5 million equivalent, or about 18% of net project cost. IDA would con-
tribute US$23.0 million equivalent, or about 39% of net project cost. The
remaining US$24.8 million would be contributed by six bilateral and multi-
lateral donors. Total external financing would cover about 82% of net
project cost, including 100% of the foreign exchange costs and about 71% of
the local costs. Financing of Parts A and B by IDA, SIDA, DANIDA, USAID,
ODA, UNICEF and UNFPA would be on a parallel basis. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government would complete arrangements satisfactory to IDA
for the external assistance (Section 6.01 (b), draft DCA). The Government's
contribution to annual Part B expenditures would represent about 2.5% of the
total MOH budget for FY81 on the average for the three-year project period.
This fiscal burden is reasonable, given the high priority attached by Govern-
ment to rural health and FP services. Subsequent to the six-year program
period, the annual incremental recurrent costs implied by Part B activities
would amount to about KSH 125 million equivalent in FY88 (at 1981 prices),
representing about 15% of MOH's recurrent budget for FY81. Given the



- 20 -
expected growth of real GNP over the period 1981-88 (about 4-5 percent per
year), the above increase in recurrent costs should be manageable, implying a
modest shift in the composition of expenditures within the MOH's budget in
favor of rural health and preventive services and against hospital based
curative care.
Procurement and Disbursements
62.       For expenditures to be financed from the proposed IDA credit, the
following procurement procedures would apply. Civil works contracts over
US$2 million would be let through ICB. Contracts below US$2 million would be
awarded after local competitive bidding following Government procedures which
are acceptable to the Association. For vehicles and equipment, ICB would
apply for contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; contracts below
US$100,000 equivalent would be let through local competitive bidding provided
that the aggregate does not exceed US$1,000,000; and for small purchases up
to US$50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate of US$500,000, prudent
shopping could be used, on the basis of at least three quotations. Contracts
for furniture exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be let through local com-
petitive bidding; for purchases of less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate of US$250,000, negotiated purchases on the basis of three
suppliers' quotations could be used. In all cases, appropriate packaging,
subject to IDA's approval, would be conducted. For items other than civil
works procured under ICB, preference may be accorded at the government's
request to local manufacturers at 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods,
or the amount of customs duty and other import taxes levied on a non-exempt
importer, whichever is lower.
63.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a)
civil works, 80% of total; (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles, 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory, and 70% of local
expenditures for imported goods procured locally; (c) consultant fees and
allowances, 100% of total; (d) incremental salaries and allowances, 90% of
total; and (e) other incremental operating and maintenance costs, 70% of
total. For (a), (b) and (c), disbursements would be fully documented. Dis-
bursements against (d) and (e) would be made against statements of expendi-
ture, with the supporting documents retained by the Borrower and made avail-
able for inspection by IDA supervision missions and independent auditors.
Project Implementation
64.       Organization and Management.  The information and education (I&E)
activities of Part A would be carried out by the Council through its
Secretariat and the participating ministerial agencies and NGOs. The
Director of the Secretariat would be appointed as Project Director, Part A.
The Secretariat would receive policy guidance from the National Council but
would be under the administrative direction of the Permanent Secretary,
Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Home Affairs. Most of Part B
would be executed by MOH, with the exception of the NGO component. Although
the MOH project components would mainly be carried out by existing MOH units,
with strengthening provided under the project, a Core Project Unit would be
established for (i) monitoring and supervising project activities, (ii) keep-
ing project accounts; (iii) preparing disbursement applications, and (iv)
preparing progress reports and financial statements for donors. The head of



- 21 -
the Core Project Unit would also be appointed as Project Director, Part B,
and would report to the Director of Medical Services. In addition to the
Director, the Staff would consist of about 12 professionals and several
support staff. The filling of key professional level positions of the Core
Project Unit with full-time personnel with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a),
draft DCA). In addition, a Steering Committee would be formed, comprised of
the Permanent Secretary of MOH (Chairman), Director of Medical Services,
Chief Nursing Officer, Deputy Secretary for Development of MOH, and the
Director of the Core Project Unit (Secretary), to meet quarterly to discuss
progress and to solve any interministerial coordination problems which may
arise during project implementation.
65.       Staffing.  The staff positions for the Secretariat under Part A of
the project and the Core Project Unit under Part B would be filled by
Kenyans, with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA. Although the
consultants under the project are expected to be predominantly expatriates,
qualified Kenyans would be eligible. The terms of reference for Part A con-
sultants would be prepared by the Secretariat, approved by the Council, MOEPD
and IDA. The terms of reference for Part B consultants for the Drug
Management Unit and the Community-Based Health Care component would be pre-
pared by MOH in consultation with DANIDA and UNICEF, respectively. The terms
of reference for all other Part B consultants would be prepared by the Core
Project Unit, approved by MOH management and IDA.
66.       Annual Plans and Budgets.  Implementation of Part A activities
would be based on annual plans and budgets to be prepared by the Council's
Secretariat and reviewed by the funding agencies. Starting with the first
project year, all implementing agencies of Part A would submit proposals to
the Council for activities they propose to carry out the following year. The
Council would evaluate, rank and consolidate these proposals based on the
funds available, the agencies' performance in implementing Part A activities
in the previous year, and policy guidelines issued by the Council's Executive
Committee. The Borrower would submit by March 31 of each year (beginning
March 31, 1983) the draft annual work program and budget for the following
fiscal year to the funding agencies supporting Part A of the project for
their approval (Section 3.08, draft DCA).
67.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The monitoring and evaluation of Part A
activities would be the responsibility of the National Council. Part B moni-
toring and evaluating would be the responsibility of the Core Project Unit,
assisted by other MOH units as appropriate. The Drug Management Unit would
monitor the new system for rural drug supplies. Special evaluation provi-
sions have been made for the community-based health care component. The most
important form of evaluation is that of outputs--in the present case,
declines in fertility, mortality and morbidity. The Government would engage
a qualified institution to conduct a fertility/mortality survey during the
course of the project to allow an assessment of progress towards the goals of
declines in fertility and mortality (Section 4.05, draft DCA).
68.       Accounts and Audits.  Under Part A, the Council will maintain
separate project accounts for expenditures incurred by the Council.



- 22 -
The participating agencies (ministries and NGOs) would keep similar accounts
for their corresponding project expenditures. Summaries of these accounts
would be submitted quarterly to the Council, which would use them to prepare
consolidated project accounts for Part A. The MOH Core Project Unit, working
in close cooperation with the Accounting Division and other relevant MOH
units under Part B, would maintain separate detailed project accounts for all
Part B expenditures except those related to NGOs. The latter will maintain
their own detailed project accounts and submit quarterly summaries to the
Project Director, Part B. All accounts and records will be consistent with
sound accounting practice. Responsibility for auditing MOH and NGO project
accounts rests with the Auditor General. The Prcoject Directors of Parts A
and B would be responsible for preparing an annual report summarizing all
project financial transactions in the period and the state of project
accounts at the end of the period, starting with FY82/83. The financial
reports, accompanied by suitable auditors' reports, would be submitted to IDA
not later than December 31 of each year, starting with December 31, 1983, for
FY82/83 operations (Sections 4.01 (a), (b) and (c), and 4.02 (a) and (b),
draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
69.       The project marks the beginning of a period of renewed governmental
efforts to reduce fertility. Reduction of fertility to replacement level is
likely to be a long and complex process, and it is difficult to forecast the
impact that project activities might have on FP use and birth rates.
However, in view of the experience in other countries and what is known about
Kenyan parents' present attitudes regarding family size, if the proposed
six-year program is successfully implemented, the percentage of married women
of reproductive age using a modern method of contraception is likely to lie
somewhere between 10 and 17 percent by 1988. This would roughly correspond
to a crude birth rate of between 51 and 48 per thousand (down from the
present level of about 53 per thousand). These levels would still be
extremely high. However, the reversal of the present trend implied even by a
small decline in the crude birth rate would be a major breakthrough for
Kenya's development prospects. Experience in many Asian and Latin Amercian
countries shows that, once the birth rate starts to decline in a developing
country, it usually continues to do so, often at an accelerating pace.
70.       The project would generate substantial benefits for the rural popu-
lation in the form of improved health services, as compared with the
no-project alternative. The scope of beneficiary groups would vary by com-
ponent. The drug supplies component would benefit the entire rural popula-
tion. Improvements in support systems would also be nationwide in scope.
Strengthening of rural health facility staffing and the construction program
would benefit selected rural populations now receiving lower-than-average
accessibility to services. By the end of the project the experimental
community-based health care component would directly benefit some 150,000
rural inhabitants. If successful, the experiment would be of great value to
the rest of the rural population since it would establish a strong case for
nationwide replication.
71.       Part A is subject to serious risk in view of the prevailing politi-
cal climate. Both its colonial history and the multi-ethnic composition of
Kenya's population contribute to an environment where population growth is a



- 23 -
sensitive issue and political support for FP is developing very slowly. In
some circles, present population density is perceived to be very low and per-
ceptions of population pressures are not widely shared. Success or failure
of the project is dependent upon the willingness of Government authorities to
render strong support to the coordinating Council. Only a strong and
committed coordinating Council with a Presidental mandate can ensure the
Council's ability to reach its goals. There are favorable signs that such
sustained support will be forthcoming. The success of Part B rests on MOH's
capability to utilize project resources effectively and to meet the exacting
administrative requirements of so complex a project. Much will depend on the
caliber of the recruits for the Core Project Unit. The provision for about
14 man-years of advisory services and other regular additional staff to
assist in the implementation of various Part B components would help to
lessen this risk. MOH has agreed to a comprehensive management study (about
3 months)to be undertaken in 1982 by independent consultants (paragraph 45).
It is expected that implementation of the study's recommendations which are
agreeable to MOH will strengthen MOH's implementation capabilities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Conditions of effectiveness include:  (i) the appointment of key
professional and administrative staff in the Secretariat of the National
Council on Population and Development (Section 6.01 (a), draft DCA); (ii)
appointment of key professional level staff in the MOH Core Project Unit
(Section 6.01 (a), draft DCA); and (iii) the Government will make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association to obtain external assistance amounting
to no less than US$24.8 million equivalent for the purposes of the project
(Section 6.01 (b), draft DCA).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement with the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 14, 1982



- 24 -                                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                           Page  1  of  6
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DArA SHEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AYEAES
LAND AREA (THOUSANDS SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTINXE)>
TOTAL            582.6                                  MOST RECENT          HIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      60.4               1960   b    1970 L  ESTIMATE l    AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  100.0        170.0     380.0                 794.2                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENI)      150.4       122.1      180.1                 707.5                  1324.1
POPULATIIN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8189.0      11253.0   15274.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4          10.2      13.8                  27.7                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MlLLIONS)                        34.1
STATIONARY PoPULATIoN (MILLIONS)                         109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.1         19.3      26.2                  35.0                     34.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2         191.4     244.4                 130.7                     94.5
PoPULAIION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.6        48.9       50.0                  46.0                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          49.8        48.6       47.6                 51.2                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.5        2.4                   2.8                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4         3.2        3.4                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               5.2         6.4        6.8                   5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      52.0         52.7      51.3                  46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.0         17.5      13.4                  15.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.6          3.8       3.8                   3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPIIA (1969-71-I1D)           99.0       100.0       86.0                  89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    99.0        99.0       88.0                  92.3                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           70.0        68.0       52.0                  52.8                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0        28.0       20.0                  16.1                     34.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0         22.5      15.2                  20.2                      7.6
HEALTH 
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3          49.1      54.7                  50.8                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           126.O0c      119.0      91.0                    .,                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           15.0      17.0                  27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..        100.0     100.0                  74.3                     79.7
RURAL                                *-          2.0       4.0                  12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF PoPULATIUN)
TOTAL                                           50.0      55.0                                           59.9
URBAN                                *-        85.0       98.0                    ..                     75.7
RURAL                                *          45.0      48.0                    ,,                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10690.6       7830.9jd 11625.2/d             13844.1                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2230.0/c.d  1474.1/d  1085.7/d               2898.6                   1288.2
FOPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             807.0/c     774.1      770.8                1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                                ..           ..     602.1                 423.0                    558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     802.8                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                            4.7
URBAN                                ..         4.7
RURAL                                ..          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PEE ROUM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                               2.5           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
SAJU 3A
MA - SOCIAL tNDtCATOU DATA SUET
IMA                         UPERsR    GAOUP$ (VGW?ED AV3w0s
- EOST RECN    UTZlATS-
NM  UXCZXT         la    INcoRK              Il OLE LNCOMI
1960 /b   1970 Lb ESTI2ATS lb  ArltCA SoTE OP SAHUAA  LATIN AItZICA A CAILDBLUN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ESOtLX        IRATIOS
PRIARY:    TOTAL                 47.0        t0.0     9.0                  73.7                   101.7
HAE                 64.0        70.0    105.0                 96.J                   103.0
IEAU                30.0        49.0      94.0                79.0                   101.5
SICOMADR:  TOTAL                  2.0         8.0      1J.0                16.2                   35.3
AIA                 3.0        12.0      22.0                25.3                    34.9
FI'rMS               2.0         5.0      14.0                14.8                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ERROL. (1 o0 SCIDAAY)   ..          2.0       2.0                  5.3                   30.1
PtuIL-TEIEHsR PATtO
PHD"A                            42.0       34.0      33.0                 36.2                   29.6
SlCOlDAUY                        15.0       21.0      25.0                 23.6                   15.7
AVJLT LItERACT RATE (PERCENT)      20.0/c      30.0     45.0                   ..                   80.0
coNsumrrloN
PASSENcE  Cs FM TI1OUSAND
POPtLATION                        8.0        8.5       *.0                 32.3                   42.6
RADIO REtIVES nt THOUSAN
POPULATION                        7.0       44.4      36.8                 69.0                  215.0
TV RECEIVRS ru THOUSAN
POPULATION                       0.3         1.4       4.2                  8.0                   89.0
NWSrAPn ("DAILY cGNAL
IRTZREST') CRCUIATION PU
THOOSAIW POPULATION                13.0       13.8      11.2                 20.2                   62.8
CInEA AUAL ATTZNDANCE PL CAPITA  1.0                     0.4                  0.7                    3.2
LABR TO0CR
l-AL-LAT-at *ocac  (HOUuAN5)    3299.8      4319.7   5530.0
IEAIS (PRCENT)                   34.5      -34.3      33.5                 36.7                   22.6
ACICSLTUt  (PERCENT)             86.0       82.0      78.4                 56.6                   35.0
INDOURY (PERCENT)                 5.0        7.0       9.6                 17.5                   23.2
PARTICIPATION RTZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              40.3       38.4      36.2                 37.2                   31.8
"ALE                               53.3        50.9     48.5                 47.1                   49.0
AUtz                               27.5       26.1      24.1                 27.5                   14.6
ECONOMIC DSSZNCY RATIO                1.2        1.3       1.4                  1.3                    1.4
INCOME DOSTRIEUTION
PECEN  0f PRIVATE INCOH
RECEIVED IT
EaCESS? 5 PECENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        20.2/oe
HIIcUST 20 PERCNT of HOUSEHOLDS   ..        52.67;      .
LOWEST 20 PERCENt oF HOUSErLDS     .         3.97;      .
LOWSSS 40 PuCENT of HOUSZOLDS    ..         11 .77;
POVERTY TARGET GrOUPS
ESTIATED ASSOLUT rOVERTY INCOH4
LUVEL (USS Pru cAPTA)
UnA                                .                 150.0                361.2
RuAL                               ..          .     112.0                156.2                  187.6
ESTIMTED ULATIVE P0VTY INCaMC
LtvEL (USS Pr CAPITA)
UUAII                             ..          ..    179.0                334.3                   513.6
AL                                ..          ..    106.0                 137.6                  362.2
ESTIHATED POPULATION  EZLOW AISOLUTE
POVERTY INCOE LEVEL (PUCENT)
URU                               ..          ..      10.0
RURAL                             ..          ..      55.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for ech indicator are populAtion-weighted arithmecic seass. CoverAge of countries
mang the indLcators depeds on avaiiability of daca end is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwie noted, data for 1960 rUr to any yer  betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, btwwu 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Esimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  Id Registered. not all practicing in the counctry; /I Urban only.
May, 1961



- 26-                                                                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIPNS OP SOCIAL ibtICAfetO
thetes,  iesul t    .d ...tb    orer  ofea"tIe    e sss  rnd,cdeloare    orar-co
ofthesujtcrer (soetfrCpt)SrusOlopreesrr oter   'Midle' tr-ne norh uf"ir  -r    ideien '-csnhrsnusroe
socl-outura  efieftse) .   trsle refer-en   grup dateh oh e ...eg-sar  ppossltasirulftdo .iltishsl,  cr   o                    )  lo  is,nndsot  nyte
iaote  of she.oneleO      cu   a   esfess   n   rtr   Sitor   Ieforrg    i c-tneie- snor  tha  o~dOr--n    --iena                                     'h-i ohs 1so b le ity  fi oat
one InIao .. s.....      s a. `gte` Iocor  end reernc
fussy05thIrtoased   5~5)                                                                       ppiiiiltrir   iqy_c__l i         -itta     -io,   iy    rth  I- isaaltiotl
Ttl-Tot. e- ufress          oprlslfg laad sees Itl inl-An  astersT. ure, end ecrlpl di `ided bn o  er rcent   uheo   opolbd
foe  -rps , pastre. eee   n  ts5hengreso   oIsflotll  does,                                           hch)ltsleiuoy     b ucoo- .doptlcteoclao                  eprar tI...aoaffe
T! .......  .I. u '7o                               -h  d  la-s  oe  bytoso    tsallhicos   rocon    c                   -rftcplLPtusd
lOt  Ot Cpot  las) - tsp  pe  radn  estl     so Io  unrdeot sate  ploas,M'  I.,-                    dIali ..e. er  0cc ..oo.Ide.Modlcyles;,s,   ild                             helt
osleted hy  -sm   toenetto"ehda,ecd5n.clsIthI-lkI bais)c                            o.sdaelg    otr  ntpraetIi afdh      poltr    u    hr 
105,ad 1919 dsts.                                                                                     tedl.tu lcestc ,. o.s. npd. f.          eo-)cI:pperi-tacscOf-
ENERGY CONilPfTION PER CAPlf -T couioocytt   faneeoa   nrr   ca                                             la  tepos   ra   opo  tiouethstbu lgnrlhsIas
and Olgnhoe, pe-rolea, osore  ga  sd hYdra-. nule   o   etesa   lr                                       n    cc    eytl  oclc   ua   tslassd:e'a   n    aeos
Tota  PoelatIo.  51d-ese  ebucsod) -  s ofJcl P i.   li60,  lily. cod t9PS             SAtiltIt-hdd  .1    d-,..1
Issa.                                                                   Areregoocos oc ~~~~~~~~ap~ HouseholBd iorsr T car ito.cbll- bc .ute.elrus
ttl-   A-l of urban     160 no 9totl po dcso 9o 9          HOSING eoiocleso  0fupo    olcul  nosoetto                                       ace
lsfrr  lfenoo    fubs   rs  sayi affect. trpabtlcy  of dta.i.                                          so  oh.i.      ar.   ao    tiaoo    0lofrto   cos o  beinoddI
sace,d,II , o,,,1calf, and lilyildata.                                                      coo toi5501   fa_ro  ale  pra
Peoclnlen  n rea  lOl  - C-ros-  Pap-lailo   P-oJetine- era based 00 lily                       ri-  f P_rer.  ee, oa  In,~     alt irhu,Tend   c          ..r arpled ........oa_
Projecton  parsaseesn00 ernelltyeaseshcepem        ofobe  lsatsscA totioo   rotoIs.elo.) i.                                                       .u,- -d -
one lIfe e"pI Iacy as btOrso    .. Inceeolgnib oet         r   Peo osloc lere                    hoIet   ltil  e   seto    fdstosI-ntl   sar   n   ua
sanet Oa  OsclOlo  sen  sls  bar o1beseiIicoals esufgdalo    t                              ftnl,cbo  srI rreT,dI            s        ilylog   neep iooloa -y
fsrh t uaso  I  ithen              I'lgl,on  o  thes  ctefj, cosln..o.  atneIl                  oco
an:d ftslllp  treods for  -ejetonc   purose.                                                     Adlu-ed tnhepllee   tastes            .   .J.-C -tl.   I                   dfe
OnstonsP   roolsOto-Imetaloneypouaonthere Is no go-eh sIc                                  Plsc  ool    oalmt  and. femal  1-1trssst.saeadI f
etebitoheesseI tequslto the d-ahroe,ao datsoe~heageP,utoe-e-tor                                               thmeoe -tcoisgeesti_ co-a y teostee  peroildse   ofd 6esclo
cOeenne.The. s     -ehtt-d only af-te  f-rility rates dartlns toreec ebo-oepostolnralrIlusoldecagd -l
Oh. r,paceee  tenet of unIt ne  rpodo  Io.rt,                .hm      ,ah geY.la                       or  ho1 5  djuc-a  foe ltfferme  teogebe of pete-y edutai-a;fo
of sme  trplre   ut_lf e..oely.The essonr  pouc                          ..sOes                        tou_etrtt        -I nes ..aneta  Idcc toee.o..e..as  at_d I  10        --ecoo
eslea    nthe taci.tof the projeoled rharartenletlos of the, IpupnIon.                          i ..c some pupils sea befan or shore-slo  oIff -oe  d a  Ise
ito  shetpear  f00, and ohs rate of d-rtne of f-rll to   eas  o   tyec-                            iSoodsty school - ntal., sate_cd fesmal.  C-Cputadcshooe;s...ondeep
sect  .e.e.                                                                                           eIduoattonoeqalrss        I ..as fIuc Ieses of'poroe   orasc  issccea
Oes- aces beay pcopOslct Is res be hd - Tbs yea  ohen fees5c-ry populesiotp-le    aea  nottIoal  renet berdIgIoeeln   o   u
else hs. beta  -e-hbd.                                                                                usualIly of It to II peace o 0 af; -oeeep-d-ece toueses era gee-raly
see an. los  - fid-peecsloceccsur   otuee   10baorsIo                                                   crtos   soteI             erasf   Vecndr)            - btasoctOstotlo
tota  ares) sine, tap7  and  Ili dIto.Ocnetoocl   nutI.                                                                                       o se    egeebo    pesase iodepand-
Perss,u.as-o-c-1ets..aod~-tr-p-od  osebone  f-sgtcltrstad                                                Yolaodep Itsc    fatoepOt_i_lo5
om1p; nOde, l97l and I.10 deos.                                                                     Pu tl-netechsrsttd -                                   Treso  sdseodeofon    -tu-nt  enrolld in
Pocutnlen   as Ieccece leeoens  - Chileldee  Ct-ON  yesTe), nlog-ffl-pmlsucp ad sodeep.;y1. lesl  floOded by ... hare of  -tather  Ie the
ltithe; t960, tall. sd t19i dan                                                                       hul  lotarsoc can  fr..r..ot)   "I I...rsed.       e    )bI   en  re   e nIe
Io..tatOte   -reenh fats loecten  - toot1 - cattoI go'h estes of te-1 eid-                                  Ioperre-st   of total  d.o  P...s... nngd lb passe ad  _rer
per   oplelos  oe100-O,OtIS-70I,cd1070-7i.
PosuItati-hmo G. thaftIlscer  -abam-hAe.u..  gomoth  -ste  of actba  popa-                          CONSUMPtTION
Satio.s for ti5f-d6, 1960-10, ccl lilt-pa.                                                          Paae   pe,moIe   th. sudcoutl)- Pse..ss-e  oars  ocepee II ceoc
Ceoda  itetlott lose p.  Ihoeseedj) - cots1 cOos bct h.  -e  tthcs-d of elf-Paocaese  oblssta sh..                                          .seotalds             bul emee  h-.srsessd
popuI:tattool  1005.  191,  e       9ll  dana.                                                         iitis yrpoehloee
Iralet  ft   Ie  tosad    - cenal deaths per cho....nds of ald-yese                                   taf2 ho te eteo   leer cbh-aod rotutatlomi - loll types of --oetre     fee c-dic
soueetetloe,eoe,so  lpelts,                                                                 bod%osst   gsesstlo  per th...so   ofrouaim tofdec-
Icsateerlool               - Oso -cemge nuber of da-gbh-s  moa    ill b-e  IeloosrclesO  ougtasdl   ee   he    eltstoo   al
btee oces rey-l-Rodco.       peo    fso   seies   eem    f-pefofe                                       aeesO   fasidt   o  reesd pear nye                   non hIe _onperAblee
etcityprs...s;as.lly  fti-s  araras    IedIo  he O6e. lOPe, sd 1010                                    ost eouetrhs abolished lOteem.nog.
Feb1   PIst....-o. 'Pt""s  aeul (hFebsd)                  mc   -cbe- of soetr                        ttclesde   hmadpou.tantom   -  I  -toei-e  for becadasseto
PeafIn  tcmolmslleees  emecsn  of mariOd toat)        -  P enge of asredto .. orintos  andl 00 yeasthee ce ts  o  ofMIIIt sets
mos-mof oh!dd-bare   og5(bi   ess   b   s  bOrtb-coeoro1 d-ni-e   o                                  tesorN     Crofatopfeeth ...a.d papulstoleof  - toeteaeaeo
cli -risetd  -oe  In sa-  agegrop.                                                                    eusto   o          ida     IIgnea     -msaamepap-r',  dafld assI perlodtta
publi-ti-o   f tosd prIarly  to  ecde   geee              lnn.I  OsoosLeeed
Fent ANeD NTRITION                                                                                         no beIsc0I  hspastaII.     rue tImesI eek
tIdes of Prod Pcoduttlo-  t-  Csotte  f1969-71-1j0) - fades of p-er   its .e .....I                   CinMa Aoe.a, A,tendaoce ;         Ils. ta  pee Yes-  -ss..d en the number of
predottice of all food cesolla            tPeoool I soolude  seed.,   feal sod                        thokets sold during  he   s. ioludhog edmlasti n.   o drto-l. omtee-
Ln on oteledar pat  basIs.   iusot,..soo-e    relae   goode ).f.  ltoga..d.e                          ad mettle ani-a
tssdof aogael  hibsedfhiah sd-            ressnnoe-et   )egtoff.. and
teaareesould).heegt  pedettof serb coreLebsde                                                 Afi P5C
tastosaa egtf   prodorcer socoe   ighelt:; 19n1-t5, tOll, tod lOP  data.                            Patti Lahoe Poets iehoo....la   - Sto...noo-ccp  -otspett,I-tce
fee osote  tseelo o  oscoete -tereoc of  cooset)-Cuaputed fo                                 armed fomose end ....ytpelyd boo.. eolding h.u.esinsa, Itmlos  eto.
..."eY  qi-sleot of men foo  sapplfs  sntlbt  In eccetep  pee rsplte                                 --n    g  opuPlatio   of alt ags.lflottions  J It n ...o t ...egrisa are
Pam dsp.  A-ilable sple   ophsdssi  prad-ooo, Onprt  les                                            cot- coaparabOt; lost,  OIl an  1010 data.
eeyotta.  d  obange   -osoe.  Oat sutptles  -toldest.las   ed,sns                           Pe.-I. lceee-ms   - Petal  labo  fre as peeoe-ncg  of total  sho- terre.
quanltienos  sd.to foed P                  Ioese,sd to-ese o  dtftbto . frait-atttine    etcn i.- sh   fo_co    fm ....on                                     fosete , lctig sed
sf5ete sees estimatd by Pa   tedc   hsilfoa   od  for  orat  ti-                                    foehing as peecenne  of toot1 tebo  foro-  tol, ogl  ae  101  dta.
nity amd beslth t ... ide,ng  -eiro- -1  epeecr,bodp  -insghts.  age                              ItlS4e   )sot     - Isha  fore 0  mining  ooetaolo,soufactucleg
sod se  doencibotiot of yap.isihon, end etotg01 pe,cott foe cat   nad  Ie...netotny, mesrt                                      d         Iasspemc_  Ie   f _1ea  lebo-  Pert.; 1960,
hoas.ehold Ile.el; 1051-1, 0910, and copy d-o.                                                       IS71 ad 1010 Isis.
Par eseiia sceoty of  enemfee   ear dey) - Pesoeit conten  of pee os pits                           Pcrftiofn taelecos       oa, sole.I end femle -Peel                          lmc
ten  eapply of food pset dsy.  Ntt aappcp of fond  Is defined. bs hon.  R.-                         saoctyrseseonsds   oa,st,alfal  ibo  foroeIe
q,,eetees  for "lItonie e blbd  by loec Poonca  for m~iotmo                                         psooaa    -C oc5l  sal  sd female puioeof al ages  -aspeuntl :y;
sleee  o   Igea   fses=rtimprdp  o   0g of                            of0atto    andc6n, 1010, end 1910 data.  Thes  se  baseId om  ILO0's p-etitip.tu   rate
p.I.e prtesti, of ehioh tI grams ahead  he snslprsi.Thestad                                         reflect l gsg-semetrcotue  of thoe popalatto, and 1eog  tots  -mad.  A
Imfmsl p_oteit as so  -nag   for the as'Id, peoPoeml by PbO to the Third                          Etort,ele lermdenen  Uatto  - Ptanloef ycusioadee  15 end 65 end on-
toed1 Food Os-ny; 1961-nI, l:it sod.1911 dct..                                                      to    N thetotl.bteb     ari..
es   sm _ cast ..am.pOn feos soml  n   -IeOs-Pen eepyy  of et-d de-
mOe   rtaiasad put.e. On gesa. per d.yi cast-so, copy so  loll dsss.                INO   DISTRIBUTIONs
ChIld (sss 1-b)goetalo    hatspear theSsed) -At,muI detnhe per th,usoI to                    Pecreotase of Peto-ns foecs flboth Ie rash ad  ictd) -  .s.etoed byrott
fIsdata deeied from  tots stire.; 196f, t901  sad 1919 data                                        of h.oetnebdlle
Ilf fe OtesreamY so lire   tess (I.       nrega ember of peer  of life  e-minlog                      meficem    efte   ste nary  ppteosOnset as                ora    f ponees  lenel,
at hceb;lON, tO5 el tOi daa.                                       ea emui  be  ntepretd mot cmsldes_ aosaion
oage pe  theiset  lies baths                                                                        Absolctc p-nerly income  J-Ie  Is that Jnrs lene   eootib                    re
A.e.m. to 3Sf 5 Wtnr  eronto (P.leie etat  lsbse  eel eUea1 - N_c                                        ourfoaloeqstde    ls   seoa   o- cod reqotrhcf   Os men
bee of poeople  mo.tel. cebs, eel entail. withdreasonable,soi-ss to sets                              effordeb-tI
sit opp  ieue  trae1ofosett   rctrseIu ooeehae                                            at-tdtlgo  Ponerot I... Ltnturb ccocitl-  ean aod rural-
octn.'Po"   Ietd not.se  thee 200 intt   reshoa"b msoiecs   fterumin    rooledOtetr  te    b   ca
fosenste                                                                          lenel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yb.P   misti  djueemenn  fo  bigher cot-flOtiginr -nee-e
No met haetosed I dlspe-p-eliotet  paint of she day it fatrhieg  the                                  pear'.                                          .d - )h    t
family'mae   mes..
A-..m. te fEocesa Diimoma  losecene of  e maiet-tonsc. ,ob at  se  arscI
Oceber of people  (tea-2 che,  n  emet)  eind            tb;mors  diapeeslFas
pee_toge  of their  esetn   Eotuttif                  t. ses diso...l asp Otlalde
Ohs  oloi M aldisposal, ethb or mithoag  trseesant, of human                    . e toest                                                     fe...h I.   d to-fa1 fats   ste
end  eesetrby ester-beets  spates or the use of pin pefofei endIimis                                                                                                      iDteocsyo    e  Poetosfpemm
Po,ulatiet car Physhaian-Pposto   bdd  by sobe  of 1!psttilog  shysi-NY98
Peeclase  ra f_I  tereha_ Pse-c  - Po polaIo   ditlded bp macbee of p-eotoing
saesa(el   edoate ouer         I     Iecta    sss,adseetn          oss



- 27 -
Annex I
Population:   15.865 million (1980)                                                                                         Page 4 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  LS$420 (1980)
KENYA - ECCMIC INDICATOR
1980
Indicator                                 Amunt                               Arnual Growth Rate (Z)
(million LE5$ at         Actual/a                             Projected/a
current prices)  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980         1981   1982   1986   1991   1995
National Accounts
Gross domestic product at m.p.          5986.0           2.1    9.5    7.4    4.2    2.4         3.1    3.3    4.5    5.5    5.5
Agriculture                           1463.8           1.9   10.0    4.2   -1.0   -1.2         2.0    3.2    3.7    4.0    4.0
Inidustry                              865.3          -0.4   13.1   10.9    6.8    3.8         4.0    4.0    5.0    7.0    7.0
Services                              1934.9           4.1    5.8    7.0    7.5    4.7         4.0    4.1    4.9    5.6    5.6
Consumption                               5962.4          -3.5    7.9   15.3    6.6    2.3         7.1   -0.5    3.6    4.3    4.3
Gross Investment                          1882.0          12.0   35.9   23.9  -24.8   17.3    -14.8    2.0    4.6    5.5    5.5
Exports of GNES                           1980.5           6.3    5.6   -4.3   -8.3    5.2    -13.7    4.6    4.8    6.5    6.5
Imports of GNMS                           2832.8          -2.7   18.3   26.6  -19.8    8.9    -12.8   -6.4    2.3    3.1    3.1
Gross National Savings                     870.4          17.0   64.6  -27.4  -27.1   64.4    -13.6   29.6    8.0    9.4    9.7
Prices
GDP deflator/b                           100.0          71.2   83.6   85.7   91.9  100.0    108.0  115.6  145.9  195.2  246.5
Exchange rate (KSh./tS$)                7.4202        8.3671  8.2766  7.7294  7.4753  7.4202   9.091   9.091   9.091   9.091   9.091
Share of GDP at market prices (%)            Average Arnual Growth Rate (%)/a
(at current prices)/c
Actual                   Projected
1974   1979   1980   1986   1991   1995          1974-79  1981-86  1986-91   1990-95
Gross domestic product at m.p.        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0             4.7       4.2       5.2      5.5
Agriculture/d                        35.4   34.3   32.5   31.0   29.2   27.6             4.4       3.5       3.9      4.0
Industry/d                           20.7   26.1   21.8   22.4   23.7   25.1             6.1       4.6       6.5      7.0
Services/i                           43.9   39.6   45.7   46.7   47.1   47.3              4.9      4.6       5.3       5.6
Consumption                            81.5   84.2   85.3   81.9   77.6   74.3              5.6      2.7       4.0      4.3
Gross Investment                       25.8   22.7   26.9   22.9   23.0   23.0            -1.5       5.0       5.3      5.5
Exports CNFS                           33.7   25.5   28.3   24.5   25.7   26.7            -1.2       4.7       6.2      6.5
Imports GNtS                           40.9   32.4   40.5   29.3   26.4   24.0            -2.0       1.3       3.0      3.1
Gross national savings                 14.5   13.0   12.1   15.7   19.0   22.4             0.6      12.2       9.2      9.7
As X of GDP
PUELIC FINANCE                             1974  1979  1980
Current revenues                          16.0  24.7  24.8
Current expenditures                     14.3  22.5  23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                1.8   2.2   1.8
Capital expenditure                       6.1   9.7  10.1
Foreign financing                         2.0   4.2   5.4
OT1ER INDICATIES                         1974-79   1981-86   1986-91   1990-95
GNP growth rate (2)                      4.9       4.1       5.1      5.6
GNP per capita growth rate (%)           1.0       0.2       1.3      1.9
Energy consunption growth rate (2)       4.9       2.5       3.1      3.3
ICOR                                     7.8       5.4       4.5      4.2
M4arginal savings rate                   .268    .333      .322      .375
Import elasticity                       -0.4       0.3      0.6       0.6
/a Growth rates for historical years are based in constant 1976 prices; projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/- KSh. deflator based in 1976 prices.
/c Projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/d Share of GDP at factor cost.
April 7, 1982
FAlDA



- 28 -
Population: 15.865 million (1980)                                                                                        Amex I
GNP Per Capita: US$420 (1980)                                                                                            Page 5 of 6
YllIYA - EK1L TRAIE
Amout                                       Anmal Growth Rate (%)/a
Indicator                         (million LE$ at                      Actual                                  Projected
current prices)
1980                1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991
EUERN& TRADE
Merchandise exports                   1247.2                6.4    4.0   -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -13.2    4.6    4.6    4.8    4.8    4.8    6.4
Primary/b                            963.4               12.4    9.0   -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -18.3    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.9    4.9    6.2
Marufactures/c                      283.8                 0.4   -5.4  -18.6   -3.1   29.6         3.9    4.0    4.0    4.7    4.7    4.7    6.8
14erchandise imports                 2612.2                -3.8   22.0   16.4  -18.3   14.7   -11.4   -6.4    3.1    2.5    2.3    2.3    3.0
Food/d                              111.2                 5.3    3.0   70.0  -19.2   57.6   -23.0   -9.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    0.0
Petroleun/e                         778.6                -8.3    4.0    2.9    0.9   16.7    -9.1   -5.2    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    3.0
Machinery and equiprent/f           706.4               -16.7   36.0   29.4  -28.4   19.0    -9.5   -2.9    5.5    3.4    3.4    3.4    4.0
others                              1016.0                 ..      ..     ..      ..      ..   -13.1   -9.6    1.8    1.8    1.2    1.0    2.5
PRICES/g
Export price index                                       73.2  102.8   81.2   83.7  100.0    93.2   98.5  106.4  114.8  124.0  132.7  186.1
Import price index                                       65.2   69.6   68.7   76.8  100.0    99.1  104.3  115.1  127.0  140.0  150.5  216.7
Terms of trade index                                    112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0    94.1   94.5   92.4   90.4   88.6   88.2   85.9
Caoposition of Merchandise Trade (%)          Average Anual Increase (%)/a
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974  1979  1981  1986  1991  1995          1974-79   1981-86   1986-91   1990-95
Exports
Primary                                  71.0  83.0  72.9  73.1  73.1  72.6              2.1      4.8       6.2      6.3
Manufactures/h                           29.0  17.0  27.1  26.9  26.9  27.4            -11.3       4.4      6.3      7.0
Imports
Food                                      6.6   5.3   3.7   3.4   2.9   2.1            -10.4       4).3       -       -
Petroleum                                21.2  23.7  30.6  31.1  31.2  38.9             -2.8        1.5      3.0    3.0
Machinery and equipment                  22.8  35.5  27.6  30.2  31.5  25.6              1.7        2.9      3.9    3.9
Others                                   49.4  35.5  38.1  35.3  34.3  33.4              ..        -0.1      2.4    2.6
/a  Historical growth rates are based in 1976 prices; projected growth rates in 1980 prices
/b  Based on weighted quantum indices (base year = 1976) of food, live anisls, and crude materials
Fe Excludes petroleum products. Value of manufactured exports are deflated by international inflaticn index to arrive at constant price
series.
/d  Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SI 8 0.
/e  Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SITC 3.
/f  Based on quantum index (base year  1976) for SITC 7.
/  Indices for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.
Excludes petroleum products.
April 7, 1982
EAIDA



- 29 -
Annex I
Population: 15.865 million (1980)                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
GNP per capita: 1S$420 (1980)
KENYA - BANI OF PANMENIS, XINAL CAPITAL AND LEBr
(million US$ at current prices)
Actual                                     Projected
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980         1981    1982    1986    1991    1995
BALANCE OF PAYtENIS
Exports of gSods and services           1184.6  1614.9  1581.0  1629.6  2032.8    1651.7  1821.5  2933.0  5447.0  9033.5
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           743.9  1130.9   955.8  1017.5  1242.5    1008.3  1114.7  1809.3  3423.4  5758.4
LIports of goods and services           1300.3  1653.9  2332.6  2206.8  3069.4    2639.9  2650.1  4221.9  7091.7  10547.5
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.           975.0  1279.0  1875.7  1779.2  2632.8    2294.4  2260.8  3610.0  6008.9  9086.3
Net transfers                             32.3    66.5    91.1   100.1   139.6        153.6   168.9   247.3   398.3   583.1
Current Account Balance                  -83.4    27.5  -660.6  -477.0  -897.0    -634.6  -659.7  -1041.6  -1246.5  -930.8
Private direct investirent                37.7    54.5    32.1    66.4    61.2         66.4    73.1   107.0   172.3   252.3
M&LT loans (net)                         111.9   145.6   410.1   412.5   515.3        460.2   552.6   866.3  1066.9   654.1
Official                                  ..      ..       ..       ..       ..    (304.4)  (546.4)  (401.3)  (568.1) (829.4)
Private                                   ..      ..       ..       ..      ..    (155.7)   (6.2)  (464.9)  (498.9) (-175.3)
Other Capital                             19.1    44.7    17.6   187.0   125.9        108.0    99.0   118.1    93.8   147.3
Change in reserves                       -85.3  -272.3   200.8  -188.9   194.6        200.0   -65.0   -49.7   -46.6   422.9
International Reserves                   425.9   698.2   497.4   686.3   491.7        291.7   356.7   546.4   905.2  1337.1
Reserves as months imports                 4.3     5.2      3.8      5.1     2.9        1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5
EXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                      180.9   231.6   285.1   376.8   420.8        566.0   689.5  1151.6  1738.4  1637.3
Official grants/a                         ..      ..       ..       .        ..        ..       ..
Concessional loans                      63.3    64.7   104.5   149.9   179.6        215.8   313.5   329.3   509.6   675.9
DAC                                   46.1    33.7    54.0    94.0    81.2        133.0   127.0   158.6   223.2   292.5
OPEC                                   -        -       -        -       -         19.5    50.3    37.6    52.7    69.1
IDA                                   13.6    17.7    16.3    21.5    71.6         30.5    90.8    75.7   140.9   192.6
Other                                  3.6    13.3    34.2    34.4    26.8         32.8    45.4    57.5    92.8   121.6
Non-concessional loans                 117.6   166.8   180.6   226.8   241.2        350.2   376.0   822.3  1228.8   961.4
Offical export credits                18.8    11.0    17.6       8.5    10.1       26.5    55.5    75.2   105.4   138.2
I311D                                 66.7    34.7    42.3    36.7    40.0         77.2   197.2   112.3   214.4   294.8
Other official                         2.1    11.5      7.6      4.8    21.0       11.1    10.1      1.9      -       -
Private                               30.0   109.6   113.1   176.8   170.0        235.4   113.2   633.0   909.0   528.5
External Debt
Debt outstandirg and disbursed         700.8   917.2  1083.7  1433.2  1743.8    2336.3/b 2888.9/b 5817.3/blO873.3/bl4359.5/b
Official                             605.2   709.6   792.8   977.6  1179.6    1593.3  2139.7  4117.2  6651.1  9506.3
Private                               95.6   207.6   290.9   455.6   564.2        743.0   749.2  1700.1  4222.1  4853.2
Undisbursed debt                       629.1   780.7  1056.6  1252.8  1304.5    1383.7  1323.0  1584.2  2518.1  3319.7
Debt Service/a
Total service payments                  65.3    74.6   121.6   120.2   183.0        201.8   271.2   531.3  1193.7  1652.1
Interest                              31.8    39.6    52.4    70.6   104.5         96J.   134.3   245.9   522.3   668.9
Payments as % of exports                 5.7     4.8      7.9      7.6     9.2       12.2    14.9    18.1    21.9    18.3
Averge interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                                 4.5      4.0     4.0      3.8     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Private                                  7.7     7.7      7.7    12.0      8.0        9.0     9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                26.0    30.0    28.0    32.0    32.0         28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
Private                                  9.5    11.9    13.0    11.9       5.9       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstarning
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                                   8.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                 100.0
/a Official grants are included in transfers in the balance of payments current account. Transfers are projected to grow at an
annual rate of 10%.
/b  Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
April 7, 1982
EAlDA



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of December 31, 1981
US$ Million
Loaa or                                                             Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                             Bank'   TW   IDAl  Undisbursed
Sixteen (16) Loans and Seventeen (18) Credits
Fully Disbursed                                     266.68        183.72
477        1974    Kenya       Livestock                                        17.50      9.39
537       1975    Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                         7.50      3.67
1105        1975    Kenya       Sites and Services                  8.00                    3.60
1167        1976    Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                       0.31
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                    10.00                    8.43
t 650       (1977   (Kenya      (Integrated Agric. Development                    10.00   ( 3.72
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development             10.00           (10.00
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.00             9.68
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.00                    4.00
1389       1977    Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                    5.49
( 692       (1977   (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                                20.00    (1.35
(1390-T    (1977   (Kenya       (Third Agriculture                          5.00            (5.00
1438       1977    IDB          Third Industrial Dev. Bank         20.00                    6.46
722      (1977   (Kenya       (Bura Irrigation Settlement                        6.00   (  .07
(1449       (1977   (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                  (34.00
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.00      8.63
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                   19.64
( 791       (1978   (Keaya      (Second Urban                                     25.00   (22.01
(1550       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                 23.00    20.23
1636        1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                   67.83
1637        1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.00                   19.89
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                   13.00    12.41
1680       1979    Kenya        Telecommunications                 20.00                   14.10
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                   85.90
914       1979    Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00    26.18
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                    46.00    44.90
962        1980    Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                     6.50      5.95
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                     16.44
1817       1980    IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   28.40
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Techaical Asst.                  4.50      4.50
1051        1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                        10.00    10.00
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education4                                 35.90    35.90
1976       1981    Kenya        Railway                            58.00                   58.00
(1143       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture34                              9.40      9.40
(1995       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture 3               25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    4.00
Total                            816.68 32.00 455.02   669.48
of which has been repaid         46.15   -       2.58
Total now outstanding            770.53 32.00 452.44
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               770.53 32.00 452.44
TOTAL undisbursed                            426.49 24.68 218.31   669.48
1/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
3/  Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of December 31, 1981
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                 Bank1    Undisbursed
-- US$ million-
Six loans fully disbursed                           135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC       Second Harbours        35.00        0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC       Third Harbours         26.50        0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC      Third Telecom.         32.50        0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB       Second Dev. Finance   15.00          3.26
Total                                            244.80        4.41
of which has been repaid                         68.89
Total now outstanding                            175.91
Amount sold                           24.36
of which has been repaid             24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank1                          175.91
Total undisbursed                                  4.42        4.41
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. Status of Projects in Execution'
(As of September 30, 1981)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982'
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. Agreement was also reached
between the Government and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) with
the Association that since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized even with the proposed new closing date, the Government would
request a cancellation of US$4.0 million and a reallocation between
categories in Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement, once the conditions were
met. This has now been done.
Credit No. 537-KE4 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. The progress of rehabilitation
of existing project farms is encountering a variety of legal, social,
political and financial problems. Despite project efforts to recruit
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/  Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.
3/ The new closing date will be effective once the countersigned letter from
AFC is received.
4/ Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



-33-                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
qualified farm managers, most of the farms continue to suffer from inadequate
financial and operational management. The majority of project farm group
owners would like to subdivide, but are constrained by large debts for common
assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines on
legal subdivision of group farms. Although rehabilitation of a few farms,
particularly coffee estates, seems to be proceeding satisfactorily, the Bank
and the Government are jointly reviewing the project objectives in light of
difficulties encountered, and the Government has undertaken a study of the
financial impact of various alternative solutions to the financial problems
of group farms and will review the implications of sub-division for the
regions concerned.  In the interim, recruitment of additional farms has
stopped, and the cancellation of the total loan amount of US$7.5 million, at
Government's request, has been effected.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million' Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry
Planatation Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's long-term
afforestation program target of 130,000 ha. of sawlog and 24,000 ha. of
pulpwood plantations by 1980. The credit and the loan are now fully
disbursed. A Completion Report is under preparation. At completion, the
plantation program was 35% below target due to a variety of reasons,
including bad weather conditions as well as poor and deteriorating
management. The building and labor housing programs were considerably behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1303-T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
The reorientation of the project towards assisting large numbers of
subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to a
number of difficulties. Late release of credit funds has led to delayed
application of farm inputs, and expected yield increases were therefore not
achieved. Measures are now being taken to ensure availability of credit
funds at the appropriate time. The overall balance between numbers of
borrowers and infrastructural support--staff, storage and transport-at
cooperative union level has been improving, and greater efforts have been
made to improve the input supply and marketing systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date: March
31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
Yields from outgrowers' cane have been projected somewhat higher as compared
5/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under the loan
were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



_    _                          ANNEX II
34                            Page 5 of 15
with 1980 yields; however, actual 1981 production may well fall short of
management expectations if the amount and distribution of rainfall are not
favorable. All civil works are virtually completed, work on minor roads is
improving and major road works are proceeding satisfactorily.  Certain
weaknesses in project management, particularly cane handling and transport,
have become apparent, and consultants are being employed to rectify this
problem. Although statutory sugar prices were changed in April 1981 by about
10%, SONY (the Project entity) is experiencing serious financial
difficulties. KSA and SONY will review the situation to ascertain what
financial assistance will be required from Government and if the Bank's legal
requirements have been satisfied.
Loan No. 1390-T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$5.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The closing date of the Project has been postponed one year to
compensate for initial disbursement problems related to budgetary cutbacks
and cumbersome administration of reimbursement requests and to reallocate
underutilized credit funds for medium-scale farmers and livestock holders
to the small-scale farmer category, where AFC commitments have exceeded
appraisal estimates. The balance of funds for onlending, about $3.2 million,
is expected to be fully drawn down by AFC by end 1981. The new, computerized
accounts system is now operational, and is being programmed to provide
improved arrears reporting, budgeting and financial control.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates that
the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate is
about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope for
reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No
supplementary IDA financing is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project, and has now confirmed its intention formally to the Bank.
Developments in these project areas are in suspense since the companies have
not given evidence that they have a viable financing plan and since the
Government has not provided detailed plans for the complementary field and
infrastructural development. Rehabilitation of the third factory has been
held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs
are expected. Cane supply is expected to drop unless cane prices are



- 35 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
significantly increased.  In spite of the economic difficulties facing the
sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being projected.  A
study to review sugar marketing prospects is due to start soon, and
appropriate changes in project design will be discussed immediately
thereafter.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in
developing effective credit programs adapted to the special circumstances of
the traditional Masai farmers of the district. Land adjudication, initially
an obstacle to medium-term lending by AFC, is proceeding relatively well, the
construction of a central Farmers' Training Center is finished, and project
staffing is nearly complete; however, project coordination and supervision of
extension services has been weak due to a change in the District Agricultural
Office (DAO) and the continued lack of an Assistant DAO. Disbursements for
seasonal and medium-term loans are likely to proceed more slowly than
expected, because of the need for intensive extension work and resolution of
disputes on land issues and credit terms. The Government has requested the
reallocation of some credit funds to other areas, including improvement of
critical access roads, and this proposal is under review.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Principal project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated 1980/81 Government budgetary allocations, the first since the
Credit Agreement was signed, to finance SCIP lending operations for coffee
factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However, most
project personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be
fully staffed shortly. Training has made good progress, but training
programs need to be expanded and accelerated. Financial difficulties are
expected to continue to prevail in the near future, and whether Project
infrastructure, equipment and personnel will be utilized in an optimal
fashion will depend on future Government funding of the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date:  October 31, 1984
Project activities are proceeding well given the remoteness of the
project area and the pilot nature of the project. The internationally-
recruited technical staff and the local agricultural and livestock extension
staff are all in place. Due to the 1980/81 Government budget constraints,
allocations for the project were only a third of the amount requested and
approved in project Work Plans. This shortfall has had a particular impact
on construction of project housing, which is sorely inadequate, and the
budget for project field services, which consequently remain limited.
Despite these problems, the project team has launched a number of experiments
in dry-land and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting,
and range management. Project demonstrations have attracted local interest,
and participation of area residents in project activities is increasing.



- 36 -                           NNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
IADP II faces many of the same problems as IADP I, mainly high drop
out rates of project recruited farmers and low credit repayment rates. These
problems are partly related to the inefficiencies of the farm input delivery
system, the financial and managerial weaknesses of cooperative inter-
mediaries, and inadequate marketing arrangements for smallholder production.
Supervision of the project has emphasized streamlining of the credit and
agricultural input delivery system and greater technical assistance to
cooperatives and the strengthening of the Ministry of Cooperative
Development's extension and audit services. IADP II provides significantly
more support than IADP I for infrastructure, including rural access roads,
rural water supplies, small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conserva-
tion. Most infrastructure components are in the planning stage with
construction to start in 1981/82. General delays in project implementation
are expected due to severe Government budgetary constraints, which have
resulted in cuts in the Annual Work Plan programs.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project start-up activities are proceeding satisfactorily. The
Project Manager and key Area Managers have been appointed. An early problem
regarding a potential project overlap with a proposed Kenyan/Nordic
cooperative fisheries project was resolved in May 1981 by the Nordics
withdrawing from the project. A subsidiary financing agreement between the
Government and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya for the cooperative credit
program is being finalized. Recruitment of technical asistance for the fish
farming center and boat building components is scheduled to be completed by
December 1981.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule.  Government is taking measures to counter cost overruns and
difficulties in making available their financial contributions by, inter
alia, phasing activities in the project implementation period. The rate of
progress towards achievement of educational objectives is linked to the rate
of progress of physical implementation of the project. Minimal progress in
preparation of a new and appropriate curriculum has been made by the Kenya
Institute of Education, who has a leading role in improvement of primary
education. Provisions under the Fifth Education Project for strengthening
the Project Unit will likely benefit achievements by a more efficient
management of implementation activities.



-31-                           ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Physical implementaton of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion). Revised total project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximately 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well
as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.06 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
This Credit became effective on July 30, 1981.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0
million Loan of October 5, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Full scale operational capacity is now at least 30 months behind
schedule. Although there is a substantial cost overrun, this is not seen as
a major problem since Government is fully committed to earliest project
completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local currency, as
needed. Regarding key personnel vancancies requiring the Ministry of Water
Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation and,
while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Water
Engineering Department of the MWD was able to start small scale operations,
by means of temporary arrangements, in December 1980 and helped estimate
substantially Mombasa's water shortage during the 1980 year end dry season,
and the project was formally commissioned in April 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply
contracts financed by other donors and the construction contracts being
financed by the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts.  Bid prices to
date have been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated
increase of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply
6/ IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent SDR 31.4 million at time of
negotiatons.



38 -                          ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the
Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to
external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The original project included 33 schemes but since two schemes are
proposed to be joined together and three schemes are being constructed under
other programs, only 29 schemes remain. The implementation is about 18
months behind schedule due to late effectiveness and slow start by the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD) in preparing studies for the schemes.
The training program is progressing satisfactorily; bids for MWD vehicles and
construction equipment are being evaluated; MWD's reorganization has been
generally implemented although some improvements are still to be completed.
Water tariffs were changed in April 1981, on Presidential order and MWD will
submit to the Bank computations showing the impact on revenues and the
covering of O&M costs.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the Annual Review
Meeting held in October 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment of
construction units. All eight Bank-financed construciton units are fully
equipped, and are now operational, and satisfactorily staffed since these
problems were resolved in the beginning of 1978. By September 15, 1980, 646
km of access roads had been constructed, of which only 135 km were gravelled
due to the above-mentioned delays and later to the labor shortage. The
decline of annual output and productivity of construction units, also due to
a shortage of labor, was increased from 30 km per annum to 33 km per annum
primarily because the Government granted a daily minimum wage increase that
was proposed by MOTC. The labor supply has been adequate since June 1980,
following the May wage increase.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds has caused a
reduction in the highway work program. While this has not yet affected the
project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY82 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The two contracts for construction of
Uplands-Limmuru (11 km) and Nairasha-Nakuru (56 km) were recently signed and
mobilization is satisfactory. The contracts for strengthening the Mau
Summit-Kismu road (136 km) is being retendered while the Nakuru-Timboroa road



- 39                           ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
(81 km) tender documents are completed. The remaining two subprojects, the
Nairobi-Thika and Longonot-Uplands roads, are under design. The regravelling
of gravel roads projections were achieved during the past two years
(1979-80). Resealing of paved roads is behind schedule with only 18% of the
appraisal target accomplished due to shortage of bitumen and poor
organization.  Bitumen is now being imported and four resealing units out of
the six planned are operational. The resealing operation is now
progressing. The funds allocated for road maintenance are about 15% below
appraisal estimates but with better organization and utilization of existing
resources, the targets could be achieved.
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September 3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April-25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan
(S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under the loan has been
satisfactory. Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new
drill rig and accessories has ben completed, and erection of the rig at the
site is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous
supplies and equipment have been purchased under International Shopping
procedures. The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule and
within the estimated cost.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
February 28, 1981, US$20.0 million has been fully committed and as at
September 30, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project:  US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its
slow implementation rate and high arrears of clients. The Association is
seeking Government assistance in correcting two problems, noted previously,
caused by the transfer in March 1980 of a loan portfolio from another DFC
(ICDC): (i) that KIE complete the reconciliation of the individual subloan
amounts stated in the transfer agreement with available documentation and
receive compensation for the doubtful debts in the portfolio; and (ii)



- 40 -                          ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
a proposal to increase KIE's paid-in share capital to maintain the
debt/equity ratio below 3, the ceilig (3:1) of the IDA Project Agreement. As
of September 30, 1981, US$3.9 million was committed for 73 subloans and some
technical assistance, to 57 subprojects, but only US$1.2 million had been
disbursed. About half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the
remainder allocated to smaller free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ten subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As at
September 30, 1980, US$14.9 million had been committed and US$ 930,000 had
been disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on October 15, 1980.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Bid awards for all
Bank-financed goods have been completed and contracts signed. Initial delays
in procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has
completed the installation of a total of 960 lines of extension equipment in
eight manual exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 570
lines in four exchanges is expected to be in service in 1981. KPTC has now
completed design of cable networks and buildings.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there
are mounting delays in implementation causing a slippage of two years due
primarily to construction delays. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory
housing. Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete
and construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected
to begin soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is
now operational, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule.
One health center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to



- 41 -                          ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
disburse against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not
approved by the Bank. The design of the other health center should be
submitted for approval soon. Tenders have been invited for all other
community facilities. Technical assistance components are completed or
scheduled for completion in conjunction with the project. Project costs for
the first phase remain close to appraisal estimates but are expected to
exceed original estimates for the remaining components because of delays
incurred. The credit is fully disbursed and disbursements under the loan
have started. Although loan disbursements are expected to increase rapidly
now that the construction activities are progressing satisfactorily, the
Closing Date has been postponed one year.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project is
slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30,1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study
and the Very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife
(Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.



- 42 -                          ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community.7
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a
joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second and
Third Harbours projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports
in both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA has
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
7/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 43 -                          ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of
the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on
EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
December 31, 1981
Fiscal Year      Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels               5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and
1979          Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2        6.3      28.5
1972          Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels             2.4       -       2.4
1976          Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles           6.3      2.8      9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market    2.0        -       2.0
1980          Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance             -      1.3       1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                   Market            5.0      -        5.0
1982          Bamburi Portland           Cement &           4.9      -        4.9
Cement Co., Ltd.         Construction
Material
Total Gross Commitments                  48.0    11.1      59 1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   13.0     1.8      14.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC        35.0     9.3      44.3
Total Undisbursed                        15.0      -       15.0



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KENYA - INTEGRATED RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                         24 months
(b) Prepared by Government and RMEA:
(c) Date of first major presentation
to the Bank Group:                             January 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                             October-November 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                                  April 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 October 1982
lI.   Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
III.  Special Conditions
(a) MOH will prepare a timetable for implementation of recommendations
of the management consultants' report not later than three months
following completion of the report (paragraph 45);
(b) the National Council members will be appointed and appropriate
policy and procedure guidelines adopted by October 1, 1982 and the
Council will be maintained and continue its operations until the
Closing Date (paragraph 49);
(c) MOH will prepare a timetable for conversion of Government RHFs not
presently functioning as SDPs, and for their interim conversion
into limited SDPs supplying contraceptives and resupplying orals,
by December 31, 1982 (paragraph 52);
(d) MOH will set up a system to show the number, type and posting of
staff in specific facilities by December 31, 1982 (paragraph 53);
(e) Locations should be selected for new CO, ECN and maintenance
training schools and architects appointed to prepare designs, not
later than December 31, 1982 (paragraphs 53 and 56);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) A study will be conducted of causes of ECN and CO student
attrition and possible remedies, and the feasibility of
shortening ECN training, not later than December 31, 1982
(paragraph 53);
(g) MOH will conduct a study on the options for financing the
expanding supply of drugs, by June 30, 1984 (paragraph 54);
(h)  MOH should conduct a survey of existing RHFs to determine
locations of dispensaries to be improved and upgraded, new
dispensaries and housing to be built, together with designs and
cost estimates, not later than December 31, 1982 (paragraph 55);
(i) MOH will establish seven provincial, and 51 district health
education officer posts, by June 30, 1983 (paragraph 56);
(j) Locations will be identified for 30 NGO MCH/FP service delivery
points, three nursing schools and three RCHs to be upgraded, not
later than December 31, 1982 (paragraph 58);
(k) Draft annual plans prepared by the Borrower will be
submitted by March 31 of each year for the following year for the
I&E program (paragraph 66);
(1) An institution will be engaged to conduct a fertility/mortality
survey during the course of the project (paragraph 67); and
(m)  Annual reports on project financial transactions will be submitted
annually, not later than December 31 of each year, starting with
December 31, 1983 (paragraph 68).



4O0
'SU DA1Nv-                                                                         KEY
POPutATOok D(EN S-IT
KTt -.                -~~~~~~~~~~ - 
- 't           ~~~~~~LDdwaro a                                                          i 
Marsabito              )
_J/'ND                                                         \                                 <         -     V
Ta:           Kitale'
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0a~
<            '      ~~~~~~EldmnB>      g         {i   <1ul                                                                               ! fi-
&If,, .      -           hyandaruaF+>          \
J2NYnua       ~I~
l(rco NAKURU         NYERRISS
/ech                           'j0EM.                                       ARSS
AIR 'I-~ .   >''>   <. 1    , Kitui o
Kapiado
"  N-.V:'> 'A     Mad, . -
ONE DOT ftOPR~~SEIRT~ ~OIIOt~ PflW~N~  .,,                            3        F 0/AN OCEAN
~ -ROItIO~IAL c                a   ..........................A  =-       -  Voi                  MaIind-i
PRtOVINCIAL BOUR'GAR1URS-
~~~~~                     K                                                        AF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IC A
N-XE
;a   . =                                                          I      X T'>OASA 4
0.KIM0        0    1T0                                 -oe              N      o
= ,==1gf    :   1;  ;'D'jXD='=,i.:  g g ='=, ;i:;; :-,~;f'                       \ '40;    ;0it0f    iAt#t  :.40'



