Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 11520
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2229-MAS)
DECEMBER 28, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit -Rupees (Rs)
Rs to the US$
Year
Appraisal Year                              11
Intervening year averages
1982                                  10.87
1983                                  11.71
1984                                  13.80
1985                                  13.46
1986                                  13.40
1987                                  13.00
1988                                  13.4
Completion year average                     14.50
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                        - 39 inches-3.28 feet
1 cubic meter (m3 )                - 39.3 cubic feet (cu.ft)
I cubic meter per second(m3 sec)  - 35.3 cu.ft per sec
1000 c.meter per day(1000m3 /d)   - 0.26 million gallon US per day
Acronyms
CHA                Central Housing Authority
CWA               Central Water Authority
ODA                Overseas Development Administration
Mt                 Mount
SIGMA              SIGMA Consulting Engineers
SOGREAH            Societe Grenobloise d'Application
Hydrauliques
UK                 United Kingdom
WHO                World Health Organisation
Fiscal Year
1 July- 30 June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mauritius
Water Supply Project (Loan 2229-MAS)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Mauritius - Water Supply Project (Loan 2229-MAS)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project had an unusually long preparation period, largely because
the Bank held out for the introduction of appropriate tariff levels.   This
approach paid off in that the implementation was, essentially, trouble free and
the  project  achieved  all  its  objectives.    Financial  performance  of  the
implementing agency was adequate, albeit slightly below appraisal target.  A
notable feature of the project was the privatization of certain repair facilities
which proved cost-effective and led to reduction of in-house staff. The project
is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely.
The Project Completion Report was issued three years late. It is of
good quality and its conclusions are appropriate. The project was the first Bank
involvement in the sector in the country but follow up operations are planned.
An audit is proposed.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2229-MAS)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .              .............................................
Evaluation Summary   ......................................ii
PART 1:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project identity   .......................................                                                         I
B.  Background   .........................................                                                             I
C.  Project Objectives and Description  ...........................                                                    2
D. Project Design and Organization   ............................                                                      3
E.  Project Implementation   ..................................                                                        3
F.  Project Results   .......................................                                                         5
G.  Project Sustainability   ...................................                                                      5
H. Bank Group Performance  .................................                                                           6
1.   Borrower Performance   ..................................                                                         7
J.   Project Relationship   ....................................                                                       7
K.  Consulting Services   ....................................                                                         8
L.  Project Documentation and Data   ............................                                                      8
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                             9
PART  III.           STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ....................                                                21
Table 1: Related Bank Loan and  or Credit  ........................                                                  21
Table 2: Project Timetable   ..................................                                                      22
Table 3: Schedule of Accumulated Disbursement .....................                                                  23
Table 4: Project Implementation  ...............................                                                     24
Table 5: Project Cost ......................................                                                         25
Table 6: Financing Plan   ....................................                                                       26
Table 7: Loan Allocation   ...................................                                                       27
Table 8: Mission data by stages of Project .........................                                                 28
Table 9: Status of Loan Covenants   .............................                                                    29
Table 10:Studies             .....................                       ....................                        31
Table 11 :Performance Ratios  Year ending 30th of June   ......                          ..       ........           32
Table  12:Estimated and actual: Financial Statement  .......                         ..        ..........            33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LN 2229-MAS)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water
Supply Project in Mauritius for which Loan 2229-MAS in the amount of US$
12.2 million was approved on December 23, 1982. The loan was closed on
June 30th 1989. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on
November 8th 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the
Eastern Africa Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation,
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LN 2229-MAS)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The objectives of the project (from SAR 3878-MAS) were to
improve:
(a)   the capabilities of the Central Water Authority
(CWA)'s management and staff,
(b)   CWA's operations,
(c)   the quality of service to consumers, and
(d)   thereby to permit CWA to increase tariffs and improve
its financial performance.
Implementation Experience
2.          Overall, the project was free of major problems and was
relatively well implemented. The start up was slightly delayed because
of the delay in loan effectiveness. However, this was offset by the use
of the Project Preparation Facility to begin some of the initial design
activities. There were slight delays (not more than six months )in
completing the design of the water pumps and the schemes in Triolet and
Mt Blanc as well as the Hydro geological study due to drought conditions
in 1983. The training component was not carried out under the project
because CWA was able to obtain grant funds from ODA for the training
program.   There was also a slight delay in implementation of the agreed
covenants. The introduction of the tariff increases did not take place
at specified periods but six months or longer in each case. This was
primarily because the agreed time schedule for tariff increases
sometimes conflicted with municipal or general elections. The
replacement of the defective meters and subsequent installation of new
ones and reversion to billing based on meter reading did not take place
as planned (prior to September 1983), but a year later. Priority was
instead given to more urgent tasks, such as ground water pump testing
necessary for the design of pump stations, which had been delayed due to
drought, as well as the completion of the computer model for the
conjunctive use of ground and surface water. In each instance, Bank
Group accepted the reasons and showed considerable understanding of the
Government's position. The project closed on the original date (June
30, 1989). The Loan was fully disbursed.
Results



- iii -
3.          The project was successful in meeting its main objective of
improving the efficiency of CWA. The project contributed to the
development of the water supply sector in Mauritius. It expanded the
demand base for water.   Consumers benefitted from regular supply of
piped water which until then was extremely erratic with frequent
stoppages, but losses due to leakages in the distribution network
remained high. The inability of the Government to implement all the
agreed increases in water tariff by the end of the project meant that
the rate of return on investment as calculated by CWA never reached the
mandated level of 8% at completion of the project. It was 6.5% at
project completion. However, the strategy of increasing the quality of
service to gain public acceptance of higher tariffs proved to be
correct.
4.          It was not possible to do an economic reevaluation of the
project because not all the relevant information was available on file.
Sustainability
5.          The project met most of its major objectives.   However, to
ensure continuous financial viability, CWA needs to generate the
financial resources to maintain services at the minimum required level.
For this to happen, the Government must make timely decisions on the
review of tariff levels and structure and establish a mechanism for
periodic adjustment to reflect the economic cost of providing services.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.          The principal findings and lessons learned include the
following:
(a)   When preparing IBRD funded projects, the Bank should
be more sensitive to a Borrower's possible aversion to
commit loan funds for technical assistance and
training and in such cases, encourage the Borrower to
identify alternative and less costly sources of
financing. Also, Bank supervision missions should
carefully monitor the performance of technical
assistance personnel obtained from alternative sources
to ensure that they are of the right caliber, as this
may have a major impact on the efficiency of the whole
operation.
(b)   Leakage losses continue to plague the Mauritius Water
supply Sector despite the major assistance provided
under the project for leakage control. While the leak
detection program put in place by CWA as a result of
this project has been beneficial in increasing the
knowledge regarding the distribution network, a more
careful supervision of this activity would have led to
an early conclusion that a major reconstruction
program-replacement of the mains should have been
carried out. If this had been done, leakage would
have been reduced considerably (assuming that the



- lv -
necessary additional financing could have been
obtained).
(c)   Selective privatization of in-house activities and
reorganization sometimes produce very high pay-off.
In this case the setting up of the commercial
department in CWA and the supply of the right
technology produced very good results, as did the
privatization of some in-house activities such as
repairs.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2229 MAS)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
-Project Name:      Water Supply Project
-Loan Number:       2229-MAS
-RVP Unit:          Africa Region
-Country:           Mauritius
-Sector:            Infrastructure
-Sub sector:        Water supply
B.    Back[round
i.           All surface and ground water in Mauritius is state owned. The right to use
water is controlled by the Central Water Authority, (CWA) - a parastatal created in 1971 and
whose Board is under the Ministry of Energy and Internal Communications. All matters
relating to water, including inventory and investigation of water resources, economic
allocation of water, development and operation of water supply systems for domestic,
industrial, commercial and irrigation purposes and water quality control are the responsibility
of CWA. Initially, lack of confidence in CWA led to Government's appointment of several
inter-ministerial committees in the early 1970s, but since these committees lacked clear terms
of reference and could make no substantive recommendations, the staff were extremely
demoralized. CWA was plagued with management and staff inefficiencies and inadequate
organizational arrangements. It lacked the financial resources to enable it provide adequate
services and make timely investments to meet increased demand for its services. Hence the
country's water supply system was in poor condition and unreliable. The appointment in
1972 of an Overseas Development Administration (ODA) funded engineering consultancy
resulted in the preparation of a development program for water supply and of feasibility
studies related to the first two stages of the development program. A significant weakness in
the program was that it emphasized mainly the development of water production facilities
rather than rehabilitation of existing networks.
2.           From 1977-81, CWA invested on the average about Rs 50 million per annum
financed mainly by the Government and external aid agencies. Prior to 1977, investment in
Water supply program was neither properly timed nor related to its revenue earning potential.
Throughout this period, CWA had limited capacity for centralized coordination and control of
planning and implementation of water resource development and for record management and
liaison with its consulting engineers. Additionally, there was a tendency to tailor projects to
the funds available and the types of contracts favored by consulting engineers and sources of
financing irrespective of whether such projects met the highest priority needs or could even
fulfil a set of limited objectives. A 1978 report by Coopers and Lybrand (UK) and funded by



-2-
ODA had recommended more operational and financial autonomy for CWA. Based on a
Master Plan prepared through a joint effort of two consulting firms in 1981, CWA prepared
an investment program for FY 82-89 for water supply works emphasizing rehabilitation of
existing networks, reduction of unaccounted for water and optimizing the capacities of the
existing facilities. A meeting of aid agencies on the Water Supply Program in Paris in July
1981, sponsored by the Bank found the investment program acceptable for financing
consideration, and the Bank ultimately financed a project out of this program in December
1982.
3.            Since 1971, the Bank had maintained a dialogue with the Government of
Mauritius and the CWA regarding the possibility of investment in the water supply sector. In
1978 a water tariff study and water rights legislation study were carried out under the
IBRDIWHO Cooperative Program. As a result, water tariffs were increased substantially.
The Bank was also involved in the sector through the Urban Rehabilitation and Development
Project (LN 1926-MAS) which included a US$1.9 million component for rehabilitation of
sewerage, drainage and water supply for four Central Housing Authority (CHA) estates and a
US$0.7 million component for solid waste management for Port Louis. The Water Supply
Project approved by the Bank in 1982 was designed to improve the efficiency of the CWA
and to increase the supply and reliability of water in Mauritius. When the Project closed on
June 30, 1989, these objectives had been generally achieved.
4.            Sector Development Objectives. The Government's objectives for water
supply are: (a) to supply water to the entire population of Mauritius and to meet the future
demand resulting from population growth; (b) to improve the quality of service by provision
of permanent instead of intermittent services and (c) to make the CWA financially self-
sufficient. To achieve its objectives, the government mobilized external aid to assist the
financing of CWA's investment program. The project thus fitted well into the overall sector
objectives of the Government.
C.    Project Ohjectives and Description
5.            Project Objectives. In furtherance of the Government's sector objectives and
to complement other aid agencies' efforts in improving the efficiency of CWA, the objectives
of the Water Supply Project were to improve (a) the capabilities of CWA's management and
staff, (b) CWA's operations and (c) the quality of service to consumers. The overriding
objectives were to remove the technological (poor service) and political obstacles to public
acceptance of higher tariffs by improving water service and thereby to give greater autonomy
to CWA so that it could operate more efficiently.
6.            Project Description. The project components were as follows: (i) Supply and
installation of pumping equipment for about 13 groundwater pumping stations and one booster
station; (ii) construction of pumping stations, including new boreholes and reservoirs in the
ground water pumping stations of the Mare-aux-Vacoas system; (iii) construction of two
distribution reservoirs,each of 6,000 cubic meters capacity, in the Mare-aux-Vacoas system,
one reservoir of 1,000 cubic meters capacity and two smaller reservoirs in the Mt. Blanc
subsystem; (iii) leak detection works in the Triolet and Mt Blanc subsystems; (iv) supply and
laying of pipes to rehabilitate, strengthen and extend the distribution networks in Triolet, Mt
Blanc and 62 different Central Housing Authority (CHA) estates and to supply the two new
distribution reservoirs in the Mare-aux-Vacoas system; (v) supply and laying of about 6,700



- 3 -
new metered household connections in part of the CHA estates and in the Triolet and Mt.
Blanc subsystems; (vi) civil works for site offices and reservoir keepers quarters in the Triolet
and Mt Blanc subsystems; (vii) supply of spare parts for water meters, about nine vehicles
and miscellaneous equipment; (viii) development of an in-service training program to address,
initially, priority training areas, supply of training equipment and provision of training
consultant services; (ix) provision of engineering consultant services to carry out hydro
geological studies of the Curepipe aquifer, detailed design studies for the project in the Mare-
aux Vacoas and District systems, and supervision of construction of the project in all project
areas.
D.    Project Design and Organization
7.            The project was prepared from 1971 to December 1978 and finally appraised
in October/ November 1982. This delay was due to the Government's slow decision on
issues raised by the Bank. The Bank's commitment was predicated on the resolution of three
issues: (a) Government's commitment to a sound tariff policy, (b) preparation of a
satisfactory investment program, (c) and preparation of a plan to strengthen CWA. To
improve the efficiency of CWA, substantial technical assistance was provided by the French
Government. In 1978 an investment plan acceptable to the donor agencies was prepared by
the Government and acting on the recommendations of the tariff study a substantial increase in
water rates was implemented. These developments made it possible for the Bank to finance
an investment operation in the sector.
8.            The borrower was the CWA which was also the implementing agency, with
the Government providing the repayment guarantee. The actual design and supervision of
project components were carried out by consultants to CWA. At the time the project was
designed, it was felt that the most important objectives for the Bank in the water supply sector
were to support institutional and physical improvements which would supplement and
reinforce the contributions of other sources of finance, to promote optimized use of existing
facilities and resources, reduced waste and operating expenses and increased quality, extent of
service, revenue earning potential and cost effectiveness of the system. The project concept
and design and scope were appropriate. The long project preparation period ensured that
investments were directed to areas where they were needed. It also ensured that the
implementing agency (CWA) understood precisely what was involved in project
implementation. The participation 'of other aid agencies in the provision of technical
assistance and advice during the initial phase of project design and implementation also helped
ensure that the project was successful and that the investment plan of the CWA was
appropriately focused, realistic and within its implementation capacity and available financial
resources. The Bank's involvement led to the development of a rational water resource
program and a move towards an appropriate pricing structure.
E.    Project Implementation
9.            Loan effectiveness and Project Start up. Although the Loan was approved on
December 1982, and signed in January 1983, it did not become effective until June 1983 due
to the delay in obtaining the legal opinion. However, the granting of the Project Preparation
Facility in the amount of US$140,000 in Feb 22, 1982, ensured that the detailed design
studies could commence prior to loan effectiveness.



-4-
10.          Implementation Schedule. Two factors contributed to the delay in completing
some project activities at the agreed time (Table 4,Part III) although these delays had no
adverse impact on the timely overall completion of the project: (i) the 1983 drought made it
impossible to carry out ground water pump testing necessary for the design of pump stations.
Similarly, there was delay in the completion of the computer model for the conjunctive use of
ground and surface water; (ii) completion of the contracts for Mt Blanc and Triolet water
schemes and the Mare-aux Vacaos pumping stations were further delayed by design changes
imposed by the borrower. As a result, there were delays of about eight months to a year in
completing the schemes in each of the areas. The commissioning of the mechanical and meter
repair shop was not done at the time agreed upon (December 31st 1983) because it was
considered more appropriate to extend existing facilities in the store depot at La Cure to cater
for the maintenance work.
11.          Procuremenit. All items were procured in accordance to Bank Group
guidelines .
12.          Implementation of the Action Plan : The status of covenants are presented in
Part III, Table 9. The Loan Agreement called for introduction of water tariff increases at
specified periods. Tariff increases were not always implemented on time. In each case, there
was a lag of about 6 months before action was taken. This was primarily due to the political
sensitivity of the tariff issue in Mauritius. For instance, sometimes, the agreed schedule for
tariff increases conflicted with municipal and general elections. The Loan Agreement called
for replacement of all defective meters and installation of new meters and reversion to billing
based on meter reading before September 1983. This was delayed due to a combination of
problems, such as interrupted supply and low water pressure as a result of the 1983 drought.
It was not until October 1984 that the meters were finally installed and a new tariff structure
consisting of flat rates and a charge for metered excessive consumption put in place. There
was delay in implementing the training program. The main reasons for the delay were
CWA's evolving training policy based on new organizational changes geared towards
contracting out of work, such as repairs which could be more effectively carried out by the
private sector. Secondly, CWA preferred to use bilateral grants rather than the World Bank
loan for financing of training program.
13.          Project cost. The estimated cost of the Water Supply project at appraisal was
US$18.22 million. The final cost was about US$ 17.62 million as shown in Table, Part 111.
The slight underexpenditure was because CWA did not utilize Bank funds for technical
assistance. Local expenditures were lower than estimated. The Bank funded about 20.8% of
the total local expenditures compared to 30.6% estimated at appraisal. Foreign costs totalled
US$ 10.78 million or 61.2% of total cost compared to 52.4 % estimated at appraisal.
14.          Financing Plan. The Bank Group Loan covered 69.2 % of total project cost
compared to about 67% estimated at appraisal and the Government loan to CWA amounted to
US$5.42 million. (Table 6 Part III ).
15.          Disbursement. The estimated disbursements of the Loan are given in Table 3
in Part III. The lag in disbursement was due to delays in entering into contracts and in
claiming for reimbursement. The project closed on time (June 30th,1989) and the accounts
were closed on December 31st, 1989, so as to enable the Government to meet all its
contractual obligations. The loan was fully disbursed by November 8th,1989.



16.           Loan Allocation. The planned and revised allocation and actual disbursements
for the Loan are shown in Table 7, Part III. The original allocations were revised in
November 1987 at the request of the Government.
F.    Proiect Results
17.           Project Objectives . Overall, the project was successful in meeting its main
objective of improving the efficiency of CWA. The project together with the activities funded
by other donors improved the CWA's services to its clients by providing leak detection
equipment, mechanical and meter repair shops and training as well as technical assistance
aimed at improving the quality of the staff. However the high rate of unaccounted for water
continues to be a problem. The project was unsuccessful in establishing a workable system of
leak detection and repair despite the supply of leak detection equipments. Water losses
continue to be around 45%. The leak repairs increased water pressures and as a consequence
more pipes bursts occur because of the age and conditions of the pipelines. In retrospect, a
better approach might have been to provide funding for a major main replacement program
rather than for ad hoc repairs.
18.           Physical Results. The physical targets of the project were substantially
achieved as planned. Table 11 of Part III contains the Performance Ratios from 1982- 1988
and the management and technical indicators are provided in Table 11 of Part III. In each
instance, there was improvement over what it was in 1982. The rise in the operating ratio in
1988 was due to general salary increases which took place that year. The overall increase in
the number of new subscribers between 1982 and 1988 was 39,649 subscriber averaging
about 6608 per annum.
19.           Financial Performance. The financial statements, including both appraisal
estimates and actual results for the period 1982-1988 are given in Table 13 and the financial
indicators are contained in Table 4 of Part III. In each instance, the performance fell short of
the estimates at appraisal. The lower rate of return (6.49% compared to an estimated 8%) is
attributed to the fact that the level of tariffs was lower than anticipated at appraisal. It was not
possible to do an economic reevaluation of the project because not all the relevant information
was available.
20.           Impact of the proiect. The major beneficiaries from this project are the
consumers who benefitted from regular supply of piped water. Prior to the project, water
supply was extremely erratic and subject to daily interruptions. By project completion, water
was readily available at all times. The improvements enabled CWA to expand the consumer
base substantially. The project contributed to the expansion of non-domestic use of water and
enabled the government to expand the export promotion zone -- a high priority sector.
G.    Proiect Sustainability
21.           The project has had significant benefits in the following areas:
(a)    It produced an increase in both the quality and the coverage of
services provided by CWA. Facilities and equipment were upgraded.
It enabled CWA to meet the growing demand for water and led to the



-6-
reduction in the average collection of arrears period from 5 years to
3.5 in 1988, and was reduced to 3 months for new bills by the end of
the project.
(b)    The management and organization of CWA has been strengthened so
that it is now able to attain sustained growth in its coverage and to
reduce substantially the backlog of arrears.
22.           To ensure the continued financial viability of CWA and enable it to obtain the
financial resources necessary to maintain service at the minimum required level, the
Government would need to take timely decisions on the review of tariff levels and structure
and to establish a mechanism for periodic adjustment of tariffs to reflect the economic cost of
providing the services. The project made progress in this direction but, as evidenced by the
failure of the project to attain the mandated rate of return at completion, circumstances can
impede this effort.
1.    Bank Group Performance
23.           From the time the Government requested the Bank Group's assistance and
throughout the period of implementation, the Bank made a positive contribution to the
physical and institutional development of the sector and ensured continued financial viability
of CWA. The project concept and the design were timely and generally appropriate given the
disarray of the sector in the 1970s, although more emphasis should have been given to pipe
replacement. Supervision missions were timely except that no mission was fielded during the
last year of project execution. Supervision missions provided valuable advice which
contributed to better project. The Bank helped to focus the Government's attention on the
financial viability of CWA and the protection of capital investment in water supply and on the
need to improve the performance of the sector. This resulted in improved service, better
financial performance and the reduction of the arrears owed to the agency.
24.           Lessons Learned. The principal lessons learned as a result of the experience
during project implementation are summarized below:
(a)    Technical Assistance. As in other projects in Mauritius, the borrower
was reluctant to use relatively expensive IBRD loan funds to finance
expatriate technical assistance. CWA pursued grant sources of
assistance to meet the needs for expatriate expertise with a high degree
of success. This suggests that when preparing future projects, the
Bank should find out about the possible aversion to utilize loan funds
for this category of expenditure and encourage and assist the borrower
to identify alternative and less costly sources of technical assistance.
The experience in this project also suggests that even when a borrower
obtains funds from grant sources for this expenditure, the Bank should
closely monitor the implementation of this category since it may have
a major impact on the efficiency of the whole operation.
(b)    Supervision. Water losses continue to plague the Mauritius water
systems despite the major assistance provided by the project for
leakage control. While the leak detection program put in place by



CWA as a result of this project has been beneficial in increasing the
knowledge regarding the distribution network, a more careful
supervision of this activity would have led to early conclusion that a
major reconstruction program (main replacement in particular) should
be carried out. If the necessary financing had been found and this had
been done, leakage would have been reduced considerably and
existing production volumes would have been sufficient to satisfy
demand for the foreseeable future. Future projects should address this
problem.
(c)    Privatization. An important lesson learned is that selective
privatization of in house activities does work. In this regard,
privatization of repairs and other activities had a high pay off in terms
of rationalization of staff. The setting up of the Commercial
Department with the right technology-computers, etc., had a high pay-
off in terms of reduction of arrears. By the end of the project, the
condition that arrears in new billing collection should not exceed 3
months was met. This would not have been possible without the
existence of this department.
1.    Borrower Performance
25.           On the whole, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The
organizational improvements in CWA were carried out based on the report of the Ministerial
committee. The amendment of the Water Act enabled the Government to make needed
organizational changes such as reduction in the number of Board members and the
establishment of the Commercial Department at CWA. Areas of further organizational
improvements were identified in late 1987. The main thrust was towards reduction of
operating costs through curtailment of overtime, reduction in staff, increased efficiency of the
operation -automation of pumping station, in order to optimize use of ground and surface
water-and contracting out minor repair works in new installations. Table 11 (Part I11)-
Performance ratios of CWA, indicates that considerable progress was made over the years by
CWA in improving performance, but that further improvements are necessary, mainly in the
areas of staff reduction, better training of staff, and increased efforts in leak detection and
control.
26.           Lessons Learned. The main lessons that can be learned from the borrower's
experience in implementing the project are: the high pay off in engaging technically sound
consultants with strong country knowledge. In this regard, the two consultant engineers and
the subcontractors were very familiar with the country and the project and this contributed to
the timely and satisfactory completion of the project. Another lesson learned is the need for
competent management in the executing agency. In this regard, performance of the CWA
fluctuated with the competency of the management.
J.     Project Relationship
27.           Bank relationship with the government and CWA on the project has been
good. The Bank was prompt in meeting all the government's request for granting of PPF and



- 8 -
for reallocation of the Loan proceeds. The Bank dealt sympathetically with the delays in
meeting the covenant relating to the changes in the water tariff.
K.    Consultine Services
28.           CWA hired two consultants for the design, preparation of tender documents
and construction supervision. Both were highly qualified consultants. A foreign consulting
form designed and supervised the construction of the distribution network for 62 CHA estates.
Their professional performance was good and the supervisory staff were competent. The
relationship with the Borrower was satisfactory. A local firm designed the water supply
scheme for the Mt Blanc, Triolet and Mare aux Vacoas schemes and their performance was
good. A subcontractor was used for special designs and calculations. The local firm was also
retained for the construction supervision of the Mt Blanc, Triolet and Mare-aux-Vacoas water
supply schemes.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
29.           Adequacy of Staff Appraisal Reoort and Project files. Original documentation
of the project was adequate. While the information in the project files was adequate for the
preparation of the PCR -- except for an economic revaluation -- the lack of regular progress
reports from the Borrower and lack of regular supervision reports after November 1987,
should be mentioned. In future, the Bank should take necessary steps to enforce the covenant
relating to progress and audit reports and to ensure that projects are closely supervised until
they are fully implemented.



.9.
PRQrECT COMPLZON RERT
MAURMUS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 229 MAS)
CENTRAL WATER AUrHORITY
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Prior to 1971, the water sector fell under the joint
responsibility of the Ministry of Works and the Municipality of
Port Louis.
In 1971, Government commi4sioned a Master Plan study for the
optimum  utilisation  of the water resources of  the  island.   In
paralell, existing legislation was amended to set-up the Central
Water Authority (CWA), a Para-Skatal Organisation.
This  body is responsible Eor the overall  administration  of
all water resources of the islaod and the distribution of water to
different categories of users.
hpraisal by World Bakf
Yhen the CWA became fully operational in 1973, a priority
list of projects for increasinq storage and carrying capacity of
pipelines was prepared based oa the findings of the Master Plan.
These projects were subsequentl' submitted to the World Bank which
fielded several pre-appraisal missions from 1973 to 1979.
The missions identified the shortcomings of the CWA which
were:
(i)    a   piecemeal  approach  for  the  carrying   out   of
rehabilitation works and expansion of its facilities
to respond to the Immediate needs of the population
(Ui)   the   Inability  of  CWA  to  follow  a   co-ordinated
development   progrAmme   because   of   shortage   of
development funds, and,
(iii)  the need for CWA to tailor individual projects to  fit
actual or expected lources of finance
Xs pre-conditions to an appzaisal mission, for water sector
development proJects, the Bank Indicated that CWA should:-
(l)    review and update the Master Plan for water  resources
while taking into consideration the status of proJect
implementation.    It also had to asess the  additional
works   that   would  be  necessary  to   meet   water
requirements until ahbout 1995.
(ii)   update  water  demard  forcasts for the  Island  as  a
whole, for planning and design purposes.



- IG -
(iii)  put  together,  describe and  justify  a  co-ordinated
programme for improving and expanding the water supply
facilities  to   meet  demand upto  year  2000.   This
applied particularly to the programme of works to be
initiated during the next five or six years, so that
it could properly be evaluated by the Bank and other
potential sources df finance.
Other sub-conditions included:
(a)  implementation of water tariff increases;
(b)  the  re-organisation and strengthening of meter  reading
and billing sections, the replacement of defective
meters and speeding up procedures for disconnections and
reconnections;
Cc)  extension    of    leak    detection    programme    and
rationalisation of distribution networks.
Upon  having  met above ccnditions, the Bank  advanced  US  $
120,000, as project preparation facility.
Prolect Proposals
At an AID Agencies meetint, held In Paris in July 1981, under
the Regis of the World Bank, CWA's development programme for the
period 1981 1986, as abstracted from the 1st updated Master Plan
for water resources, was presented.
Practically   all  compondnts  were  found   acceptable   for
financing by the Funding Agencies.
Projects proposed for financing by the Bank comprised:
(l)    Priority works in Che Districts Water Supply system
(ii)   Complement  the  project financed by  Kuwait  and  Abu
Dhabi  Funds  in  the MAV  system,  by  improving  and
reinforcing the part of the system related to ground
water resources.
(iii)  Complete the projeat, assisted by US Aid, by providing
water supply infr4structure to the 62 remaining CHA
Estates.
(lv)   Provision  of  spad'e parts for  meters,  miscellaneous
equipment and 9 vehicles for leak detection unit.
(v)    Provision   of  consultancy  services  to  carry   out
detailed  design  studies for the  MAV  and  Districts
systems  and  supervise  construction  works  in   all
project areas.



- 11 -
Prolect &Dprais&l
Following the Aid Meeting, the World Bank sent an appraisal
mission to Mauritius from October 19 to November 23, 1981. At the
round up meeting held on October 29, 1981, World Bank confirmed
its intention of making available a loan of US $ 12.2 million for
water sector development.
Out of the US $ 12.2 million loan, US $ 1.2 million was used
for reimbursement of expenditure incurred for the procurements of
pipes, fittings and consultancy services in connection with
provision of potable water supply to CHA Estates.
The  project  financed  b$  the  World  Bank  comprised   the
following components;
A. Scheme No. I
imiorgvement to Ground Watgr PuMoino Stations in the Mpre __auX
Vacops System
Works identified involved:
(i) Construction of concrete storage tanks of 6,000 m3
capacity at Stanley aid Candos
(ii) Construction of 12 km of trunk main
(ili)Construction of a 210 m3 capacity balancing tank at
Valentina
(iv) Duplicating/modernising 13 boreholes/pumping station in
MAV System
B.   Scheme-No. 2
Immrovement of Distlibutioti Network in Mont Blanc Sub-System
Works identified involved:-
(W) Construction of two new service reservoirs:-
(a)       one of 1,00  m3 capacity at Mt Blanc
(b)       one of 500 m3 capacity at Beau Champ
Cii) Repairs   to   69  major  leaks   identified   and   the
strengthening  of  various  lines  and  positioning   of
section valves and pressure reducers
(iii)Constructlon of trunk mains from Mt Blanc to Beau Champ
and  a  new distribution main from Beau Champ  to  Lower
Choisy via Baie du Cap, St. Martin and Bel Ombre



*12 -
(iv) For removal of all household connection from the Bon
Courage      -   Choisy   distribution   main   for   its
transformation into a trunk main
(v) Installation of some 2,300 household connections in Mt
Blanc and Bon Courage regions only
C.   Scheme No. 3 --Trinlet Watar Supply System
Works identified involved:
(i)  the  construction  of a 4,000 m3 concrete  reservoir  at
Plaines des Papayes
(ii) Construction  of  a  looped network -  41  km  of  small
diameter  pipelines  ranging  from 75 to 200  mm  ND  to
ensure adequate distribution within the limits set out
for the development of the village
(ili)Construction   of  4  pumping  stations   at   Boreholes
306,309,117 and 493
(iv) Construction   of  1  balancing  reservoir  of  240   ms
capacitty
(v)  Construction of linking trunk mains as follows:
(a)  3.15   km   of  300  mm  ND  pipeline   link   from
reservoir to Triolet
(b) 4.28 km of 200 mm ND pipeline from Triolet to Pte
aux Piments through Japonnals Rd
(vi) Construction of a principal main of diameter 400 mm over
a stretch of 2.51 km from the 400 m3 reservoir to the
distribution system
D.   Scheme No. 4 - Water Supply to CHA Estates
Works involved provision of water supply infrastructure to 62
CHA housing estates scattered over the island. This project
was meant to complement works financed by US Aid in some 56
CHA Estates previously.
Proaress on Desian
Consultancy for design and supervision for CHA Estates.
Water supply project was entrusted to MIs Sir Alexander Gibb
(Mtius) and to M/s SIGMA-SOGREAH for the other schemes.
Delayg on Design
MaV Scheme
Delays occurred due to the fact that pumping tests could not



-             ~~~~~~- 1.3 -
Triolet Scheme
Delays occurred because price coefficients had to be agreed
with World Bank and also because of proposals of modifications
from CWA concerning trunk mains.
Overall there resulted a delay of five months.
Pals s
Review of implementation programme of each scheme shows that
all physical works financed by IBRD was carried out in a
relatively timely and orderly manner; under the direct supervision
of the Central Water Authority - the Implementing Agency.
Due   to  favourable  exchange  rate  prevailing   and   cost
under-run, on some contracts, the CWA sought and received the
Bank's approval to reline some of its trunk mains routing along
the First Highway Project.
Mont Blanc Scheme
Works started on 11th September 1984 and were completed on
25th June 1987.
Implementation of this scheme has enabled in most of the
remote regions of the southern part of the island to get an
adequate supply of good quality potable water.
However certain areas whith were getting a 24- hour service
are now getting a reduced level of service mainly because the same
volume  of  water  is being distributed  to  more  consumers.   In
consequence, CWA is currently kundertaking some major development
works in the area for mobilization and bulk transfer of resources.
MAV System
Works started in Feb. 1987 and were completed on 6.2.88.   As
a result of implementation of this scheme, it is now possible to
satisfy demands during dry season as well, for the pumps that have
been installed have operating points at high and low water table
level,  with  an  efficiency  of 75% at all  times.   It  is  thus
possible to ensure more intensive contribution from ground water
resources during the rainy season when the water table level is
higher to allow for maximum storage at MAV reservoir at the onset
of th. dry season.
The scheme has improved water supply facilities to 40,000
consumers in the MAV system.



- 14 -
T.riolet sub-system
Works started in March 1985 and were completed on 5.8.86.
The works Involved the laying of 41 km of small diameter
pipelines, construction of a 4,000 service reservoir and two
pumping stations.   In general the scheme was for mobilisation  of
water. resources and its distribution to the inhabitants of
TrioLet.   About  50,000 people are benefiting  from  the  scheme.
However due to heavy demand as a result of growth in residential
and industrial construction, the CWA is studying ways and means
for  bulk transfer of water to the area.   Besides as the old  and
inefficient pipelines have betn scrapped, the efficiency of the
network has improved enormously.
CHA %&tate Scheme
Works started on 3rd January 1983 and were completed by 31st
July  1985.   62 CHA Estates making up a total  of  4,780  housing
units have been granted potable water supply infrastructure.
However subscribers in CHA Estates throughout the island have
proved to be very bad payers. During the past few years high sums
of money due by them had to be written off as bad debts.
The Central Water Authority has decided to provide Individual
Tee offs to each housing unit, so that in case of non payment by
the subscriber, his supply may be disconnected without affecting
other subscribers.
Concl1us ionsa
Loan 2229 was the first IBRD assisted project for the water
sector in Mauritius.   It has helped enhancing water supply In the
project areas through the extension and strengthening of trunk and
distribution networks, as well as increasing storage capacity.
Benefits accruing to the project areas are briefly summarised
belowi
(1)  Mont Blan  Schgme
Prior   to  the  implementation  of  this  scheme,   the
sub-system catered to the potable water needs of 18,000
inhabitants - with a le*el of service averaging 7 hours
daily - out of a resident population of 26,200 (1980).
Those not benefiting from a piped supply had to resort
to river water for their daily needs.
Through   implementation   of   this   scheme,   network
efficiency which averaged 45% improved to 65%, with the
result that by end 1985 it was possible to provide piped
and treated water to a further 15,000 inhabitants and
some  industrial  estates  and  hotels  that  had   meanwhile
cropped up in the project area.



- 15 -
The average gross daily per capita distribution which
was 78 l/s has been even out at 150 1/s over the entire
system.
However   as   from  early  1990  demand   has   started
outstripping supply and it is felt that additional water
resources has to be mobUlised to meet unsatisfied demand
and to maintain an average of 17 hours level service as
minimum.
In consequence government has embarked on a Mont Blanc
Phase IX project, to complement works executed under the
Bank's  financed  Mont  Blanc  Phase  I  project,   with  the
objective of mobilising, treating and bulk transfer of
an additional 4,600 m3/d of wholesome water to service
the Mont Blanc sub-system
Works Identified and estimated disbursements are as
Eollows:
(i) Rehabilitation of Mt Blanc dam
(ii) Construction of a 5,400 m2 capacity treatment plant
(iii)10 km of ancillary pipeworks
Estimated Disbursements
linancial Years
n1/92       ,92J93      9Ui         9/95       Total
Rs(M)       Rs(M)       Rs(N)       Rs(M)      Rs(M(
34.2        34.0         1848        1.71       88.71
(ii) MAV System
Implementation of this scheme, besides having extended
and strengthened the trunk and distribution network, has also
enabled  an increase in storage capacity by 14,000 m2.   With
this and the additional volume obtained from the 13 ground
wpter pumping stations, it has been possible to eliminate all
blackspot areas in the MAV system and consequently extend
potable water supply to an additional 13,000 people.
Since the population served by this system which numbers
450,000 presently is forecawt to reach 667,000 by year 2010,
Government   has   decided  to  Implement   a   project   for
mQbilisation and treatment of additional resources as to meet
projected demand and make optimum use of the Infrastructure
established with the Bank's assistance.
Detailed planning study has been carried out. The works
identified and amount required for their implementation is as
follows:



-16-
Phase I starting tentatively by financial year 92/93 and
to be compLeted by fiscal year 93/94 comprises
orirtigncos
Rs (M)
(1)  Rehabilitation of existing               90.870
La Marie Filter Plant and
construction of Additinnal
storage capacities
(2)  Repairs to MAV conduit and                3.335
Bassin Carre to eliminate
losses
(3)  Diversion of rivers to lead              19.479
for HAV reservoir
(4)  Diversion of Upper catchment             23.490
of rivers to lead to MAV
reservoir
(5)  Construction of a 60,000 mO/            399.896
capacity treatment plant
at MAV and associated
pipelines, pumping stationb
etc.
Sub-Total                    537.070
(6)  Engineering services (7.5)               40,280
Total                     577,350
CWA  intends  to implement the project in  two  phases.   The
financing requirements financial year-wise for completion of Phase
I & II of the proJect are as follows:-
Financial Year -   92/93    93/94        94/95      95/96
linancing Rs (M)  20.0        160.0    268.48       28.87
N/s BADEA have expressed tVelr intention to make available  a
loan of Rs 100 million towards implementation of Phase I of the
project.



- 17 -
Tr iolet Scheme
At time of implementation of this scheme on a resident
population of 22,720 inhabitants (1980) only 14,000 -people had
individual  house connections.   The rest had to depend on  public
fountains  for their potable water supply.   The system  was  very
inefticient, as it dated as far back as 1948, losses were as high
as 55%.   Besides the network storage capacity was not  sufficient
to satisfy peak requirement and to ensure a 24 hour service.
Implementation of the scheme increased storage capacity by
4450  ma.    Renewal  of trunk and  distribution  mains  increased
efficiency  of the network to 65%.   With this improvement it  has
been possible to extend the network to cover an additional 25,000
inhabitants living just outside the project area and also to
provide potable water to the new hotels that cropped up on the
coastal belt adjoining Triolet.
It is now felt that additional resources has to be conveyed
to the area to meet the ever growing demand of water, due to "the
high  rate of industrial and residential development taking  place
in the area.
Implementation of this scheme has definitely brought an
improvement in the living standards of the residents. It has also
enabled CWA to get rid of the problem of providing a mobile water
tanker service to them.   CWA has been able to register some 6,000
subscribers who were till lately getting their potable water
supply through CHA standpipes.
Following improvement in water supply service, water sales
went up by 15% per annum on average during the period 1982-1984.
Consumers, generally, diC not raise much objection to the
various increases in water rates.
Nowever   despite  an  inctease  of  15%  in   domestic   and
non-domestic tariffs, with effect from January 1983, the CWA run a
deficit  of  Rs  20 million.   Taking  into  account  depreciation
charges and payment of interests on debt, the operating ratio for
financial year 82/83 was 107% and 104% for Financial Year 83/84.
Corrective measures were immediately taken.   A revised water
tariff structure coupled with 4n increase of 15% was implemented
in October 1984.   Revenue from water sales went up by 32%.   This
enabled CWA to achieve a rate of return of 8% on average current
net value of fixed assets in operation. With this performance the
CWA was able to meet the Bank's requirements concerning rate of
return on fixed assets in operation.



- 18 -
Despite an average increase of 9% per annum in operating
expeases,- the Authority has been able to have a favourable
operating,-ratio, as shown below!
Tinancial Years        85    86      87      88      89     90
Operating Ratio %    85    77        77      94      85     88
Consgmer Invoigina
The Principal Customer classes of the CWA are as follows:-
(i)  Domestic consumers         - Residential dwellings, family use
(ii) Non-Domestic consumers   - Business enterprises, processing
establishments etc.
(iiii)Vegetable, flower         - Agro Industries
growers & poultry
breeders
(iv) Public Authority           - Governmental customers viz:-
Schools, hospitals, public
buildings etc.
Details of consumption and sales percentage are as hereunder:
Cateaory,       % of Subscr iber      Sa         Reyearw
Domestic              92.9            80.8          61.2
Non-Domestic           4.7            14.1          24.5
VFGP                   0.5             1.47          2.5
Govt.                 _1               3.6           1. 8-
100            100          100
There is within CWA a commercial division responsible for
consumer affairs viz! billing, attending to consumer complaints,
meter reading and consumer invgicing.
All subscribers are provided with a meter.  This Is read on a
monthly basis and consumers are charged accordinq to a dual system
of basic rate for a minimum 41location and addition charges to
consumption in excess of the m4nimum allowable. Where consumption
is less than the allocation, the minimum charge is payable.
Minimum   charge  and  minimum  allocation  differ  for   the
different category of subscribers, as well as the rates charged
for each unit consumed.



- 19 -
Tariff Policy
While preparing this tariff structure, due consideration has
beer given to devising a tariff policy which is socially equitable
and  financially  viable  for  the  CWA.    However,   our  rates,
concerning minimum charge to lomestlc consumers do deviate from
actual cost of service to them. This is based on the above
principle as well as the need to discourage excessive water
consumption as the subsequent tariff bqids are higher than average
cost.
As   far  as  government  and  non  domestic  consumers   are
concerned, they are charged a progressive tariff with minimum cost
equal to average cost.
A  special tariff has beeh set up for those engaged  in  Agro
Industrial activities in order to promote this activity.
Present Tariff Structure
A.   Domestic Tariff
(a) Minimum charge/month
(i)   Living Quarter with 2 water points or less
=    Rs 42.00
(ii)  Living Quarter with 3 water points or more
=   Rs 63.00
(b)  Water rate (subject lo minimum charge as at (a) above)
(i)   First 20 m'/month in case at (i)  = Free
(ii)  First 27 m3/mo*th in case at (11) = Free
(iii) For water supplied in excess of 20 m3/month upto
and including 40 -3 = Re 3.00/mr
(iv)  For  water supplied in excess of 40  m3/month  but
less than 100 m/month = Rs 5.00 m3
(v)   For water supplied in excess of 100 m3/month
- Rs 7.00 m3
B.   Non-Domestic Tariff
(1)  Minimum charge -    Xs 100./month
(ii) First 100 m'   -    Rs 6.00 ms
(iii)100 - 250 m    -    Rs 6.50 m'
(iv) > 250 m3        -    Rs 7.25 m3



- 20 -
ie    lwer Gowela& T  e-tocN Prod c-s
nimum charge -    IRs 50/month
irst 100 m'   -    Rs 5.00 m3
100 m'        -    ts 6.50 m3
-ment
'inimum charge -    Rs 100/month
'irst 100 m3   -    Rs 6.00 m'
: 1 - 250 m'   -    Rs 7.00 m'
250 m'        -    Rs 8.20 m3
Fountain      -    Rs 1200/month
tand .pipe      -    Rs 250/month
9 Water Users  -    Rs 1.50 m'
*-e revenue earned flom each m' sold to:
Domestic users a Rs 2.89 m2 )
Non Domestic   = Rs  6.65 m')
'Jegetable,     = Rs  5.00 m2 ) For years 89-91
Flower Growers                  )
Dovernment      = Rs 12.44 m' )
-WA will soon implement a programme of disconnection  of
-ase of non payment after a maximum period of 3  months.
;o aiming to have regular meter  replacement  programmes
7 years.
-ramme Is ongoing to identify illegal connections and to
them so as to limit pilferage of water.



- 21 -
PART III
Statistical Information
Table: 1    Related Bank Loans and or Credit
Loan                         Purpose               Year of Approval           Status
LN 1926-MAS    Urban Rehabiliation and             12/80             Completed 12/86
Development.
Provided for water supply to serve
estates.
LN 2337-MAS    Highway Project.                   7/83               Completed 11/89
Construction of water mains
approved by Bank in December
1986.



- 22 -
Statistical Information
Table 2:    Project Timetable
Item                           Planned         Revised           Actual                     Reason
Date            Date             Date
- Identification 1                07/71                             07/71
- Identification 2                10/72                             10/72
- Preparation 1                   03/73                             03/73
- Preparation 2                   08/73                             08/73
- Preparation 3                   04/74                             04/74
- Prepartion 4                    11174                             11/74
- Preparation 5                01-02178                             01/78
- Preparation 6                04-05/78                             04/78
- Preparation 7                   12/78                             12/78
- Preappraisal 1                  07/79                             07/79
- Preappraisal 2                  11/79                             11/79
- Pappraisal 3                    05/80                             05/80
- Preappraisal 4                  03/81                             03/81
- Preappraisal 5                  05/81                             05/81
- Appraisal                    10-11/81                          10-11/81
- Post Appraisal                  01/82                             01/82
- Loan Negotiation                09/82          10/82              10/82             Government not ready
- Board Approval                  10/82                             12/82
- Loan Signature                  01/83         03/83               03/83
- Loan Effectiveness              05/83         08/83               06/83             Legal opinion delayed
- Loan Closing                    06/89                             06/89
Comments on Proiect Timetable: The project was first identified in 1971 when CWA was created. It was not finally appraised
until 1982. The delay between identification and appraisal as well as the many pre-appraisal and preparation missions in the
interim was primarily due to the prevailing chaotic situation in the sector. Investment was predicated on the establishment of a
central authority responsible for water and sewerage, its organizational structure and determination of policies including
resolution of the financial situation considered essential for the development of the sector. CWA was established in 1971, but
did not start operation until 1973. It was beset with difficulties including Government's lack of confidence in it, staffing,
management and financial difficulties. Bank staff devoted time during the early period to working with the funding agencies
and the Govemment to resolving the major problems facing CWA and encouraging the aid agencies to assist CWA. Appraisal
of the project was predicated on the resolution of three issues: CWA preparation of an acceptable and realistic investment
program, putting in place a sound management and staffing program, and an acceptable water tariff system which would enable
CWA to be financially autonomous. The preparation of the Investment Plan (1982-1988) and its acceptance by aid agencies
during their 1981 meeting in Paris as well as the French Government's commitment to strengthen CWA through technical
assistance and the resolution of the water tariff issue made it possible for IBRD in 1981 to finally carry out the appraisal of the
project



- 23 -
Statistical Information
Table 3:      Schedule of Accumulated Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Semester Ending    Appraisal Estimate        Actual          Actual as % of
(November 1982)                             Estimate
FY 1983
June 30, 1983                              0.7
FY 1984
December 31, 1983                          1.8                  0.4                 22
June 30, 1984                              3.3                  0.9                 27
FY 1985
December 31, 1984                          4.9                  1.5                 31
June 30, 1985                              6.1                  2.3                 35
FY 1986
December 31, 1985                          7.3                  3.3                 45
June 30, 1986                              8.5                  4.9                 58
FY 1987
December 31, 1986                          9.5                  7.0                 74
June 30, 1987                              10.2                 7.7                 75
FY 1988
December 31, 1987                          10.8                 9.0                 83
June 30, 1988                              11.5                 10.5                91
FY 1989
December 31, 1988                          11.9                 11.5                97
June 30, 1989/a                            12.2                 2.2                 100
a/ Disbursement as of Nov. 8th 1989 when the Loan was fully disbursed.



- 24 -
Statistical Information
Table 4: Project Implementation
1. Implementation Progress
Description                Estimated Tareet Date    Actual Date
Bid documents completed by                      October 31, 1982             January 31, 1982
Award of contents                                   July 31, 1983            October 31, 1983
Completion certificates issued by                  June 30, 1988            October 31, 1989
2. Technical Indicators
1291      1990 est.   1990 actual
a) Total consumption m3 /day
i) Triolet subsystem                                1900         4180
ii) Mont Blanc                                       2050         4050
3. Manayement Indicators
12L9      1990 est.  1990 Actual
a)  Total CWA's staff per thousand customers               17           13             18
b) Total water supply staff per thousand                   13           10             13
m /day
4. Financial Indicators
1989 est.  1989 Actual
Operating ratios                                                         0.63           0.94
Rate of return                                                           8.0            6.5
Debt service ratio                                                       2.9            1.16
Debt equity ratio                                                        0.34           0.76
Current ratio                                                            4.8            5.0
outstanding accounts                                               3months              3.5
billable      months
billable



- 25 -
Statistical Information
Table 5: Project Costs (US $ million)
-________________________________ _  | Appraisal Estimates                Actual Costs
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign       Total
CHA Estates
Supplying and laying of pipelines
Laying of metered connections                      0.68      1.2         1.9       0.52      0.92        1.44
Triolet Subsystems
Supplying and laying of pipes
Supplying and laying of metered connections
Leak detection
Small buildings                                    1.43      1.32        2.75      1.98      1.86        3.84
Mont Blanc Subsystem
Booster Pump
Supplying and laying of pipelines
Leak detection
Supplying and laying of metered connections
2.17      2.57       4.74       0.79      2.9         3.69
MAV System
Supply of pumping equipment
Supplying and laying of pipelines
Civil Works (pumping stationed reservoirs          2.17      2.57        4.74      2.7       3.34        6.04
CWA Geneml
Training Program                                   0.12      0.17        0.29
Vehicles and materials                             0.08      0.52        0.60      0.11      0.5         0.61
Enzinecrine Services
PPF assisted detailed studies                      0.26      0.14        0.40
Completed studies and supervisions                 0.28      0.52        0.80      0.74      1.08        1.82
2.71      1.92       4.63
Contin2encies
Front End fee on Bank Loan                                   0.18        0.18                0.18        0.18
Total Proiect Cost
8.67      9.55        18.22               10.78       17.62



- 26 -
Statistical Information
Table 6:     Financing Plan (USS million)
Planned            Ac
Goverrunent loan                             6.02*               5.42
IBRD and Loan Fee                     12.20                12.20
Total                   18.22               17.62
*including taxes



-27 -
Statistical Information
Table 7:    Loan Allocation (US$)
Original Amount
Category                    of           Revised No. 1987      Actual 1
Loan Allocated
1.    Materials, Equipment,           1,500,000.00       1,900,000.00      2,285,169.71
Vehicles
2.    Pipes                          6,200,000.00
3.    Civil Works                     1,400,000.00       8,000,000.00      7,894,698.36
4.    Consultant Services             1,300,000.00       1,900,000.00      1,819,481.67
5.    Refinancing of Project           140,000.00          20,345.23          20,354.23
Advance
6.    Front End Fee                    180,296.00         180,296.00         180,296.00
7.    Unallocated                     1,479,704.00        199,344.00
Total                   12,200,000.00      12,200,000.00     12,200,000.00
Comments:   1.    Disbursement as of November 8, 1989
2.    Loan was closed June 30th, 1989, and was fully disbursed



- 28 -
Statistical Information
Table 8:   Mission Data by Stages of Proiect
Mioon                    Month/Year               Staff Weeks                   SpeciUliztion                   Performance                Type of
in Field                    Repreented                        Rautig                  Problem
Idenficauon              July 1971                      I           Engincer
Idenification            October 1972                  1            Sanitry Engineer
Preparation              Mamrc 1973                    2            EagincerlFiaciaAnuiyst
Prearaton                Marh 1973                     2           Financial Analyst/Engineer
Prepation                September 1973                1            Financial Analyst
Preparation              April 1974                    2           Financial Analyst/Engineer
Preparation              November 1974                 2            Fiacial Analyst/Engincer
Updating                 Ianuary 1977                  2            Financial Analyst
Prepatuon                Jan/Feb. 1978                 4           Engineer/Fiancial Aalyst
Prepatuon                April/May 1978                2           Engineer/Finncial Analyst
Preparation              December 1978                 2            Financial AnalystEngineer
Preapproir l             July 1979                     1.5         Sanituy Engineer
Preapprisa               November 1979                 4           Snuutry Engineer/Financial Analyst
Preappras                Mey 1980                      2           Sanitay Engineer
Preappraisal             Marco 1981                    1           Sanitry Engineer
Preapprisa               May 1981                      2           Sanitary Engineer/FiunaciLl Analyst
Appraisel                Oct/Nov. 1982                 6            Sanitary Engincer/Financial Anslyst
Post-Apprisal            January 1983                   1           Training Specialist
Supervison I             Marco 1983                    2            Sanitary Engineer
May 1983                                  Fianci Analyst 
Supervision 2            SeptJ/Oc  1983                2            Fiancial Analyst
Sanitary Engineer                       I
Supervision 3            January 19S4                  4            Financial Analyst                                              Ftncial
Sanitary Engineer                       2
Supervision 4            September 1982                4           Sanituuy Engineer                        I
Fiancial Analyst
Supervision5             March 1985                    4           Fnancial Analyst                         2                      Financial
Sanitary Engineer
Supervision 6            September 1985                2            Funacial Analyst                        2                      Management
Sanitary Engineer
Superviion 7             Macb 1986                     2            Financi Analyst                         2                      Financial
Sanitary Engineer
Superviion 3             Jan./Feb. 1987                2            Financial Analyst                       2                      Fmancial
Engineer                                I
Superviion 9             Sept/Oca. 1987                2           Finncial Analyst                         I
Sanitary Engineer
Total
Staff Time                                           62.50
Comments:
I  Problem free/minor problem.
2. Modeate problems



- 29 -
Statistical Information
Table 9: Status of Loan Covenants! Compliance with Loan
Covenants
Loan Agreement:
Section                Comoliance and Comments
A.      Reoreanization and Improvement of       4.07
CWA's Manaeement
Establishment of a staff disciplinary body                     In fuU compliance.
on or before December 31, 1982
On or before December 31, 1983:
Increased delegation lof power to                              In full compliance.
CWA's General Manager and raising the
financial ceiling for contracts for which
he has the authority to negotiate and
contract. Reduction in the number of
members on CWA's Board.
B.      Water Tafiffs
Introduction of tariff increases not later                     In fuU compliance except for moderate delays.
than January 1, 1983 and July 1, 1983
and thereafter at six monthly intervals.
C.      Traininz and Manpower
Commencement of training courses                               Training needs assessment carried out but
under the training program on or before                        actual courses did not commence until after
December 31, 1983.                                             the closing date.
D.      Reversion to Billing Based on Full
meten2
Complete checking of biling records and                        In fuU compliance.
reconciliation and write off of aLl bad
debts on or before August 31, 1983.
Replacement of all defective meters and
installation of new meters and reversion                        In fuU compliance except for moderate delays.
to billing based on meter readings on or
before September 30, 1983.
Commissioning of mechanical and meter                           Although CWA had purchased a building for a
repair shop on or before December 31,                          workshop, based on a further review of its
1983.                                                          suitability, in light of CWA's evolving pattem
of in-house repair works and CWA's
reorganizations plans, it was considered more
appropriate to extend the existing facilities in
the stores depot in La Cure to cater for
maintenance work. The first phase of
extension in La Cure completed, but the
second phase started after the closing date.



- 30 -
E.      Leak Detection
Establishment of leak detection teams on                     In full compliance.
or before Septembcr 30, 1983.
The Borrower shall increase tariffs and  5.05                 CWA's operating ratio for FY84-85 was 87%
maintAin an operating ratio not exceeding                     which meets the requirement of the loan
105% for FY84-85 and produce an                               covenant as amended. The rae of return of
annual rate of rctum of not less than 8%                      FY85-86 is at 4.95% as compared to 8%
of the net value of the fixed assets in                       required under the terms of the Loan
operation.                                                    Agreement. Without increase in tariffs, CWA
will not be able to meet the requirement of the
loan covenant. With the expected tariff
increase of approximately 30% as of
December 1, 1987, the rate of retum for
FY88-89 is estimated at 6.5%.
F.      Financial Covenants
Maintenance of appropriate finacial    5.01                   In fuU compliance
records.
Fumish audited accounts not later than  5.02                  In full compliance except for moderate delays.
nine months for FY82 and six months
thereafter.
In fuU compliance.
The Borrower represents that at the date   5.03
of the agreement, no lieu exist on its
assets as security for any debt.



- 31 -
Statistica Information
Table 10: Studies
Studies                    Purpose defined at     Status              Impact
Appraisal
Hydrogeological studies of   To obtain detailed   Completed.          Results used in carrying
the Curepipe aquifer.      information on the                         out the necessary grand
water table of the                         pump tests.
Curepipe aquifer.
Detailed design studies in    Detailed designs of the   Completed.    Results used in the
the Marc aux Vacaos        water systems.                             construction of Marc aux
system and in the Triolet                                             Vacaos, Triolet and Mont
and Mont Blanc sub-                                                   Blanc systems.
system.



- 32 -
Statistical Information
Table  11:        Central Water Authority - Performance Ratios
YmiLr eding 30th June                                                            ||
19S2         1983        19U4        1985       19U6        1997        1989
WATER SUPPLY RATIOS
1.        Unit cou at 1987tU pri
(a) ope.muoand tigatnai   han.d of popuision                 (Rs)       129           129         152         157        160         159         191
Significant itemt mchaded m
1(a) ama
(b) Manpower                                                (Rt)         73            73          72          68        65           64          77
(c)E3ctricitycoa                                            (Rt)        19            19         20           21        23           29          27
2.         Pctomzage of wowu put also mipply
from                                                          s          41           41          44           42        40           40         42.6
(a) grouad Souz                                                          59            59         56           58        60           60          57.4
(b) sudarce aoum
3.        Percentage of suppLam wbici, am
(a) metared                                                   1           7             7          7           92        94           95         98
(b) unmaerad                                                  %          93           93          93            8         6            5          2
4.         Nortal populano on atpply a a poroiLuge of total Jormal
population                                                    %          78           SO          83           96        88           90         92
OPERATING RATIO
5.        Rc%trnt expeibadre as a pucamq  of totol rettue
S         106          104         103           95        77          77          94
CURRENT COST RAIIOS
6.        Currnt coat depqtncinm per head of popul()06
(Rt)        17           40          49           46        44           43         43
7.        Current cot opertang profilaa per bead of popukiott
(Ri)        43           -36        -53           -9        10            1          5
MANPOWER RATIO
8.        (a)        Manpower per tbouaod bead of populstion
(b)        Mapoerperbhumadrdcosumn                         (Nos)          2.5           2.4        2.2          2.1       2.0          1 9         1.8
(No)          2.2           2.0         1.8         1.6        1.4         1.3
CAPITAL Extettditure Retio
10.       Capitl cxpenditmumper hced of popuiaboaaz 19871S8              S         142          130          S7          167       210          199        230
pnowe
11.       Debt Scvica Ratio
Dek Serve a a pyerae of tttnmlly gaeted
fw                              .                               %           5.08        -15.91      -15.17        1.11       1.10        0.56       0.76



- 33 -
Table 12               CENTRAL WATER AUTHORITY
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL:FINANCIAL STATEMENT(1982-1989)(M. RUPEES)
1982   1985   1985   1987   1987   1989    1989
ACT.  EST.  ACT   EST.  ACT.  EST              ACT.
WATER REVENUE           87.0  198.0  156.0  320.0  177.2   471.0   250.0
OTHER                    4.0    5.0    5.6    7.0   10.0    10.0    13.2
TOTAL REVENUE           91.0  203.0  161.6  327.0  187.6   481.0   263.7
OPERATING               83.0  123.0  105.0  153.0  110.4   186.0   154.0
EXPENSES
DEPRECIATION            19.0   41.0    3.6   68.0   38.6   119.0    43.0
TOTAL EXPENSES         102.0  164.0  108.6  221.0  149.0   305.0   197.0
OPERATING INCOME   -11.0   39.0   21.2  106.0   44.7    176.0    66.7
NET INCOME BEFORE  -11.0   39.0   21.2  106.0   21.3   176.0    66.7
INTEREST
INTEREST                18.0   49.0    3.3   69.0   17.5    67.0    24.0
IDC                     11.0   30.0    6.0   41.0   13.6    20.0         5.0
RETAINED EARNINGS  -18.0   20.0   -9.0   78.0   16.4   129.0    50.7
RATE BASE              403.0  760.0  776.8  319.0  920.8  2201.0  1028.9
RATE OF RETURN %        -2.7    5.1    2.73    8.0    2.3       8.0      6.49
OPERATING RATIO %   112.1   80.8   66.97  67.6   89.6    63.4    74.7
INTERNAL SOURCES
OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME   -11.0   39.0   18.9  106.0    9.2   176.0    66.7
DEPRECIATION            19.0   41.0   36.5   68.0   43.5   119.0    43.0
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS    1.0    1.0    1.3    0.0    1.9            0.0      2.1
TOTAL                    9.0   81.0   56.7  174.0   57.6   295.0   111.8
OPERATING
REQUIREMENTS
INC\DEC.WORKING          9.0    8.0  -16.0   12.0  140.6    29.0    20.9
CAPITAL
INT.CHARGED TO           7.0   19.0   28.3   28.0    3.6    47.0    -5.0
OPERATIONS                    I                              I
DEBT REPAYMENT           5.0   13.0   25.1   35.0   72.2    54.0    80.0



- 34 -
TOTAL OPERATING        21.0   40.0   37.4   75.0  216.8   130.0   116.9
REQUIREMENTS
INTERNAL FUNDS        -12.0   41.0   19.3   99.0  159.1   165.0   -5.0
AVAILABLE FOR
INVESTMENT
CAPITAL
INVESTMENT
CONSTR.PROGRAM         93.0  260.0  126.4  147.0  220.6    60.0   91.3
INTEREST               11.0   30.0    8.0   41.0   16.6    20.0    8.0
TOTAL CAP. INV.       104.0  290.0  134.4  188.0  295.3    80.0   99.3
BALANCE TO BE         116.0  249.0  115.1   89.0  145.3    85.0   105.0
FINANCED                                                                _
FINANCED BY             =       =      =__
BORROWINGS             81.0  260.0  134.2   93.0  292.0       0.0   100.0
EQUITY                 23.0    0.0    6.6    0.0  292.6       0.0    10.0
TOTAL CAP.            104.0  260.0  141.0   93.0   19.5       0.0   105.0
SOURCES
CASH INC/DEC          -12.0   11.0   25.8    4.0   19.2    85.0    0.6
CASH AT BEG.OF         14.0   17.0   -5.1   26.0   59.9    45.0    16.2
YEAR
CASH AT END             2.0   28.0   20.8   30.0    0.0   130.0    0.0
ANNUAL DEBT
SERVICE COVERAGE        0.7    2.5    1.06   2.8    0.93      2.9     1.16
ANNUAL CONTR. TO   -11.5   14.1   14.4   52.7   25.6          2.0   -5.07
CONSTRUCTION                          I_I
I ~~                                              -,,,, _ _- _



