Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
o.<ka 7 CA'
Report No. P-4045-CH
;                                    REPORT AND RECOWMNDION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERN&TIONhi BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
TO THE
MECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$140.0 MILLION
TO TEE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
May 23, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CaERCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (Ch$))
Calendar 1984
Currency Unit            Average           Dec. 31, 1984      April 30, 1985
US$1                 Ch$98.478             Ch$128.5            Ch$148.76
Ch$1                 US$ 0.010             US$  0.008          US$  0.0067
Ch$1,000             US$10.127             US$  7.782          USS  6.722
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       = 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
CNP           Corporacion Nacional Portuaria
(National Ports Corporation)
ECLA          United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America
EFF           Extended Fund Facility
EMPORCHI      Empresa Portuaria de Chile
(Chilean State-Owned Ports Authority)
EMPREMAR      Empresa Maritima del Estado
(Chilean State-Owned Shipping Company)
ENAP          Empresa Nacional de Petroleo
(National Petroleum Company)
FFCCE         Ferrocarriles del Estado
(State-Owned Railways)
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
INACAP        Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion
(National Training Institute)
ITAO          Instituto Tecuico de Adiestramiento de Operarios
(Technical Institute for Training of Equipment Operators)
LANCHILE      Linea Aerea Nacional de Chile
(State-owned airline)
MOP           Ministry of Public Works
MTT           Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
ODEPLAN       Oficina Nacional de Planificacion
(National Planning Office)
SONACOL       Sociedad Nacional de Oleoductos
(National Pipeline Company)
VIALIDAD      The Roads Directorate of MOP



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i -
RERUILIC OF CUILM
la" SlC')R PROJEC;
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMAY
£        eorrueer:      The Republic of Chile
Aonmt:          US$140 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
zxeenttng
Aoency:         Ministry of Public Works (Roads Directorate)
Description:    The proposed project consists of the Government's 1986-1988
Road Investment and Maintenance Program.  This program in-
cludes construction; reconstruction; upgrading; routine,
periodic, and deferred maintenance; consulting and training
services and procurement of road maintenance equipment.
Project         Project benefits will accrue to the economy at large in the
Benefits:       form of vehicle operating cost savings.
Project         There are no major risks affecting the proposed project.  The
Risks:          Roads Directorate's performance under the previous two pro-
jects has been very good and the Government has already in-
cluded the funds required for project implementation in its
current three-year plan.
Project Cost
ad Financial
Pla:            The total cost of the Government's Road Investment and Main-
tenance Program for the 1986-1988 project period is estimated
at about US$656 million equivalent with a foreign exchange
component of about US$347 million equivalent. The proposed
Bank loan represents 21 percent of the total program and 40
percent of the foreign exchange component. The balance of
the financing required will be met from ongoing TDB ioans,
an ongoing Bank loan, suppliers' credits to be arranged in
conjunction with this loan, and possible financing from
commercial banks as part of the new money facility now being
negotiated. The Government would finance the balance. Bank
loan disbursements would be made for expenditures under the
maintenance program, in order to ensure its timely
execution.
Thi document has a restriced distributon and may be usd by recpients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wodd fank authormtion.



- ii -
Ministry of Public Works load Investment and
MNait_nance Progra  (1986-88)
(in millions of current US dollars)
1/             Foreign
Components             Total Costs    Local        Exchange
Investment              253           114           139
Maintenance              312          152           160
Contingencies             91           43           48
Total                   656           309           347
Financing Sources
Government/commercial
banks2/                401          309           92
Suppliers' Credits        14            -            14
IDB                      44             -           44
IBRD Loan (2297-CH)       57            -           57
Proposed Loan            140            -           140
Total Financing         656           309          347
Estimated
Disbursements:                     (Bank FY in millions of US Dollars)
1986          1987           1988           1989
Annual                         28             38             46             28
Cumulative                     28             66            112            140
Rate of Return: The economic rates of return in the investment program range
from 15 percent to 38 percent and those of the maintenance
program are 49 percent for paved roads and over 100 percent
for gravel and earth roads.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 5549-CH dated May 23, 1985
1/ The project cost includes about 20 percent identifiable taxes and
duties.
2/ Cofinancing is under consideration under the -B- Loan program.



EPORtT AND             OOF TU  PRESIDNT OF THE ID
TO THE EXECTIViE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE FOR
A ROAD SECTR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$140.0 million to help fi-
nance a Road Sector Project. The proposed loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Ministry of Public Works, as Executing Agency, would utilize the
loan proceeds to partially finance its 1986-1988 road investment and mainte-
nance program.
PART I - THE ECONOKY
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circulated
to the Board on September 24, 1984. The following paragraphs are based on
the conclusions contained in that memorandum and on information gathered by
subsequent missions that visited Chile in November 1984 and January 1985.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy to the end of 1983
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market fluctua-
tions, accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable distribu-
tion of income. With the aim of reducing the country's dependence on im-
ports, these Governments intervened in the determination of prices, erected
high protective barriers against foreign competition, offered special tax and
other incentives to investment and entered directly into production and dis-
tribution activities while controlling the allocation of credit and foreign
exchange. During 1971-73, the Government undertook a major agrarian reform,
expropriated a large part of the private industrial and mining sectors, and
followed highly expansionary fiscal, monetary, and wage policies. In 1973,
the public sector deficit exceeded one-fifth of GDP and stagnation, rapid in-
flation and balance of payments problems became acute. Inflation exceeded
500 percent and net international reserves were negative by more than US$300
million.
4.        After 1973 the structure of the Chilean economy underwent pro-
nounced change. The new Government, which came to power in late 1973,
promoted private initiative and significantly reduced the role of the State
in the economic sphere. The public sector deficit was eliminated. All
prices, including interest rates, were progressively freed and most distor-
tions to relative prices were removed. Foreign investment was encouraged and
trade barriers were virtually eliminated. Major reforms were introduced in
the tax structure, in the budgetary process and in banking legislation.
Finally, most of the enterprises taken over by the previous Government were
returned to the private sector. To reduce the hyperinflation and in response



to a major drop in copper prices, the Government initially undertook a severe
austerity program; strong fiscal revenue and expenditure actions were imple-
mented, the currency was massively devalued and, after 1975, a crawling peg
regime was adopted which stimulated export-led growth. A depression, which
developed in 1975, bottomed out during the first quarter of 1976 and, with
its first current account surplus in twenty years, Chile was able to service
its debt and increase substantially its net official reserves.
5.        The economy responded well to the reforms.  Between 1976-1980 real
ecqnomic growth averaged 8.5 percent per year; by 1977, real GDP had returned
to 1971-1972 levels; by 1980 annual inflation was reduced to 30 percent. The
balance-of-payments position improved markedly; the value of agricultural and
manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold between 1973 and 1978. Copper
revenues - traditionally over 80 percent of export receipts - had been re-
duced to half of total export earnings. Net foreign reserves during the
1973-78 period averaged over US$1.5 billion. By 1978, real wages and sala-
ries had recovered to their 1970 levels and rose further as worker productiv-
ity increased. The efficiency of the State enterprises improved significant-
ly, and the public sector had an overall surplus by the late 1970s. But since
these positive developments were accompanied by more efficient labor use, the
unemployment rate fell slowly despite a major emergency employment program.
6.        While the Government was eager to reduce the economic role of the
State, it was equally determined to improve the quality of, and access to,
social services to the poor. Previous income distribution policies and pro-
grams - such as price controls, public housing, cheap credit, factor sub-
sidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social expenditure programs - not
only had had perverse growth effects, but often had been of equal or, in some
cases, greater benefit to the urban middle class than to the poor. From the
mid-seventies on, although the Government spent less on the social sectors
than predecessor governments (public social outlays only reached 1972 levels
in real per capita terms in 1980), it carefully targeted its spending on the
extreme poor through a series of reforms in health and education that lowered
substantially Chile's rates of infant mortality and child malnutrition.
7.        After 1980, economic conditions changed with a major shift in
macroeconomic policy and the later world recession. On July 1, 1979 the
Government ended its pre-announced crawling peg policy and fixed the Chilean
peso at Ch$39:US$1. This, combined with greatly lessened restrictions on ex-
ternal capital flows and public sector surpluses, was expected to adjust
domestic inflation quickly to international levels. Unfortunately, the time
lag in the adjustment of inflation, combined with the subsequelnt appreciation
of the U.S. dollar and 1981-83 world recession, produced an unsustainable
boom, financed by massive inflows of foreign borrowings. Between end-1979
and end-1981, Chile's private external debt tripled.
8.        The appreciation of the peso -  combined with the growing world re-
cession - finally had an overwhelming effect, as Chile's export earnings and
inflows of foreign savings both dropped. By the end of 1981, the economy
entered a recession. The lag in foreign exchange policy response led the
economy from recession into depression. In 1982 GDP fell 14 percent. Real
value-added dropped in construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, by almost
22 percent; in commerce by 15 percent; in transport by 10 percent; and in
manufacturing by 22 percent. Real fixed investment fell almost 37 percent, a
drop which was all the more discouraging because the country had only begun
to improve its infrastructure, which had deteriorated greatly during the
1970s.



-3-
9.        Unemployment soared to 19 percent by 1982 as the economy entered
the depression. The financial situation of many firms and banks deterior-
ated. As early as November 1981, the Government assumed responsibility for
day-to-day management of a few insolvent banks, but the situation worsened
considerably in 1982, with a series of bankruptcies. The crisis finally
forced the Government to devalue in June 1982, and subsequently follow a
crawling peg exchange rate policy. In January 1983, after the EMF agreed to
a SDR 795 million Stand-by, a financial crisis was triggered by massive
banking insolvencies and a huge capital outflow.  The Government liquidated
some banks and intervened in others, providing imediate liquidity to avoid
collapse of the financial system. A "shadow program- - by which the origin-
al targets could be met by September - was then drawn up. By end-July,
agreement was reached with foreign banks, providing Chile with much-needed
financial support.
10.       By following severe deflationary policies, Chile complied with its
original September 1983 IMF targets; a feat that reflects favorably on the
country's determination to meet its external obligations. A reduction in the
rate of inflation to 23 percent and a current account deficit of only US$1.5
billion were achieved. External balance, however, was achieved at the cost
of a one percent drop in real GDP. Private consumption fell seven percent.
The unemployment rate dropped to 16 percent, but only because the emergency
employment programs were employing ten percent of the work force.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       The depression bottomed out in late 1983.  A growing public invest-
ment program and Central Bank financing of domestic debt reschedulings sup-
ported strong increases in demand and production in the first semester of
1984. Furthermore, a March agreement with its international creditors pro-
vided Chile with $780 million in fresh medium-term capital and a major in-
crease in short-term debt followed. As a result, GDP grew 6.3 percent. In-
dustrial, agricultural and fishing output all grew faster than GDP.   Employ-
ment increased sharply; 250,000 more productive jobs were created - a 9.2
percent increase - allowing the Government to reduce its emergency-work pro-
grams by 137,000 jobs, while unemployment dropped to a 13.3 percent rate
its lowest since 1981.
12.       Despite an almost ten percent volume increase in noncopper exports,
Chile's export earnings - denominated in US dollars - dropped five per-
cent. Copper prices dropped 12 percent to the lowest real level since the
1930s, so that Chile's record volume of copper exports did not lead to in-
creased copper receipts. Noncopper exports also suffered price drops - 4.5
percent - reducing the earnings from the volume expansion of agricultural
and industrial export products which increased by 31 and 7.7 percent, respec-
tively. After two years of heavy import compression, the 1984 recovery led
to imports of $3.3 billion, an 18 percent increase over 1983. Capital im-
ports grew fastest - 44 percent. To cope witb the growing foreign trade
imbalance and to ameliorate the reduction in copper tax revenues, the Govern-
ment increased import tariffs to a 35 percent uniform rate, while devaluing
by 23 percent in September 1984.
13.       A new three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program has been
agreed with the IMF. To sustain the recovery, a three-year public investment
program places emphasis on export promotion and job generation. The



-4-
conclusions of a Bank public investment review mission, which visited the
country in November/December of 1984, are that the program's goals are ef-
fectively supported by the projects included in the program. Corporate and
individual taxes are now being reformed to stimulate investment and savings
and a general financial program was defined by the Superintendency of Banks
and the Central Bank to capitalize intervened banks. Major reforms in the
structure of large business groups continue, and ownership conflicts - which
have caused investment delays - are being resolved, so that currently-
restricted export-oriented firms may soon increase production.
Prospects
14.       In spite of these actions, the Chilean recovery remains precar-
ious. A severe earthquake, which struck the country on March 3, 1985, caus-
ing in excess of US$500 million in damage, has made economic recovery even
more arduous. Growth is severely constrained by foreign exchange limita-
tions. The external debt - including short-term debt - nearly equalled
1984 GDP; interest payments on it were over 45 percent of the country's ex-
ports. Increased export earnings depend, in part, on a rapid expansion of
noncopper exports. The Government, recognizing this, has taken action and
has established an attractive exchange rate policy. It is also taking other
actions to stimulate exports, including import tariff reductions. Even with
strong gains in export volumes, Chile's prospects are linked to its terms of
trade and - given its high debt burden - world interest rates. Chile's
terms of trade are expected to improve by about five percent in 1985, based
on current Bank commodity price projections. Near-term interest payments are
currently being decided during ongoing meetings with international creditor
banks.
15.       For moderate GDP growth of about 2.5 to 3 percent to continue over
the medium term, Chile would not only need to increase domestic savings and
accelerate exports, it would also need further substantial net inflows of
capital. So far, the country has made determined efforts to comply with its
foreign obligations. A realistic exchange rate policy should stimulate a
strong volume expansion of noncopper exports, and most of these exports have
better market prospects than copper. The public investment program is now
oriented to support more strongly a productive recovery. Private incentives
are also being oriented to export expansion or efficient import-substitution
as well as to employment and savings generation. Despite these efforts,
Chile's continuing recovery and creditworthiness will depend on how much sup-
port can be obtained from creditors for its three-year program. Thus far,
the country has addressed its medium-term constraints with sound policies,
which strengthen prospects for obtaining the necessary external financing.
Even so, to improve its creditworthiness, Chile will not only need to comply
with its EFF and reach agreement with its commercial creditors, but it will
also need to define and implement a recovery program which the Bank can sup-
port with a Structural Adjustment Loan. The proposed project would be part
of such a program; it would make a major contribution to stimulating both ex-
ternal trade and inter-urban commerce through improved transport efficiency.
Hence, it would comprise an important element in the country's economic and
financial recovery. Therefore, because the country has so far complied with
its external obligations, and provided it continues to make satisfactory pro-
gress in its negotiations with its external creditors, it is considered cred-
itworthy for this loan.



-5-
PART II - ARK GROUP OPKRAIIONS
16.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 32 loans to Chile, amounting to
US$711.6 million (net of cancellations) of which six were not yet fully dis-
bursed. IDA had also extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for a
road project in FY61. IFC gross commitments in Chile as of the same date
stood at US$56.4 million. Annex II has further details on IBRD and IFC oper-
ations as at March 31, 1985.
17.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 27 percent has been for
roads, 23 percent for power, 22 percent for agriculture (including irriga-
tion), 1I percent for housing, seven percent for mining, five percent for
water supply, and the balance (five percent) for industry, education and
technical assistance.
18.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic perform-
ance and the availability of suitable projects. In the FY75-77 period, the
Bank made four loans totalling US$107.8 million to help finance projects in
the agriculture, copper mining and power sectors. The Bank did not lend to
Chile in FY78-79, but in FY80 it approved a US$38 million loan for a water
supply project and, in FY81, two loans in the amounts of US$36 million and
US$42 million for a Second Agricultural Credit Project and a Highway Recon-
struction Project, respectively. During FY82-84, only one Bank loan, a
US$128 million Second Highway Reconstruction Loan, was made to the country.
In FY85, three loans have thus far been approved - a US$56 million loan for
Agricultural Services and Credit, a US$80 million loan for Public Sector
Housing, and a US$11 million loan for a Public Sector Management Technical
Assistance Project. The Bank has also modified existing operations to permit
almost US$25 million in proceeds to be used for earthquake-related emergency
repairs and reconstruction, principally in the transport sector, but also in
housing.
19.       Execution of Bank-financed projects has been satisfactory.  Dis-
bursement of Bank loans reached US$32.6 million in FY82. Then in FY83, with
the current depression at its nadir, disbursements declined to US$22.3 mil-
lion. This was in large measure because of the two-year lending hiatus as
well as the fact that the farmers' debt burden, and investment uncertainty in
the agricultural sector, created disbursement problems for the FY81 agricul-
tural credit project; however, modifications to this project have helped ex-
pedite disbursements, and it is now expected that this loan will be fully
disbursed by the closing date. Disbursements on Bank loans in FY84 reached
their highest historical level of US$34.5 million.
20.       The Bank's present lending strategy is to support the Government's
medium-term economic adjustment program by focussing on improvements in:
(i) external trade policies that would ensure an acceleration of export
growth and efficient import-substitution and further diversify production and
exports; (ii) public sector management and fiscal policies to reactivate the
economy and strengthen public savings in a timely way with emphasis on making
better use of existing infrastructure and productive capacity; (iii) finan-
cial policies to stimulate domestic savings and to allocate credit more effi-
ciently; and (iv) policy incentives to expand productive employment. In



- 6 -
addition to the proposed road sector project, we are preparing an Industrial
Finance Restructuring Project and a Structural Adjustment Loan to support the
Government's medium-term economic adjustment program. These operations would
contribute to improved efficiency and enhanced savings, as well as stimulate
much needed employment and output in the private producing sectors.
21.       Over the next few years, it is expected that the Bank will continue
supporting the Government's medium-term economic adjustment program. Sector-
al operations will be prepared in small enterprise industrial credit, water
and sewerage and in productive sectors such as agriculture and forestry. As
part of the Bank's program of emergency assistance, following the recent
earthquake, a Port Reconstruction Project might also be prepared during 1985
and 1986. A proposed multimodal transport operation would emphasize trans-
port facilitation and prepare the country better for the container age. The
operation for small industry credit would help strengthen and diversify the
structure of production among smaller producers which can be expected to in-
crease efficient import-substitution. Lending for water and sewerage facil-
ities would meet important residential health needs and would also improve
the export marketability of fresh agricultural produce. Lending for energy,
agriculture and forestry would not only contribute to expanding output and
employment, but would also increase net foreign exchange earnings and sav-
ings.
22.       Although Chile's debt situation is currently limiting cofinancing
opportunities, the responsible way in which the Authorities are handling the
country's external obligations augurs well for future operations in which the
Bank could co-lend with commercial banks. International commercial banks are
considering providing Chile with new funds to tide the country through the
next year but have yet to resume lending on a voluntary basis.  Opportunities
for cofinancing with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) are also being
explored. IDB has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focusing primarily on
agriculture, industry, power, and transportation -- sectors in which the Bank
is also preparing operations. IBRD exposure in Chile currently stands at 1.6
percent of public debt and about 1.4 percent of total debt.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System and the Subsectors
23.       The backbone of the Chilean transport system is Route Five, a sec-
tion of the Longitudinal Road which runs from the Peruvian border in the
North to Quellon on the island of Chiloe in the South. Over large sections
of its alignment, Route Five is paralleled by a railway. The system consists
further of a rather dense string of ports that can be used for national and
international shipping and a series of airports for local and international
air transport. Road transport carries about 66 percent of domestic freight,
the railways carry about 22 percent, coastal shipping about 7 percent, and
oil pipelines about 4 percent. Air transport handles less than one percent.
International goods traffic is more than 90 percent by ship (exports about 98
percent). Passenger traffic is mainly by bus, although 1.7 million railway
tickets were sold in 1983 for an average trip of 170 km (up from 102 km in
1975).



-7-
(i) Railways
24.       Chile has about 9,600 km of railways, of which about 6,000 km
(mainly the Southern Railway, the Santiago-Valparaiso and Calera-Los Andes
links of the Northern Railway, and the private Antofagasta-to-Bolivia Rail-
way) are 1.676 meter gauge. The rest (most of the Northern Railway) is main-
ly 1 meter gauge. About 1,600 km are electrified, mainly in the South and
Santiago-Valparaiso/San Antonio, and about 700 km are continuous-welded.
Commercial goods traffic by rail amounted to about 4.4 million tons in 1983,
over an average distance of about 281 km, compared with 3.9 million tons and
266 km in 1981.
25.       In the early 1970s, the Chilean railways -  overdesigned, over-
staffed and unable to eliminate uneconomic lines or to set adequate rates -
were covering, in some years, less than half of their total expenditures, and
Government contributions were well over US$100 million per year. Since 1973,
the railways have taken a set of measures to improve their efficiency and to
eliminate deficits. These successfully implemented measures include: phas-
ing out of uneconomic and non-productive services; reduction of the labor
force and rationalization of its use (more than 27,000 people in 1973 and
less than 8,000 in 1985); partial maintenance of the network and some equip-
ment by private contractors, resulting in reduced maintenance costs; techno-
logical improvements, mainly elimination of steam locomotion; and tariff in-
creases more than doubling rates, in real terms, between 1971 and 1980.
26.       As a result, Government financial assistance decreased steadily
after 1976 and has been almost unnecessary since 1980. However, the long-
term role of the railways has not yet been clearly defined, and the process
of trimming out non-productive lines does not appear to be complete, particu-
larly in the North.
(ii) Seaports and Airports
27.       Chile has a coastline of more than 5,000 km, with more than 70 car-
go port installations. The ten major Chilean seaports are state-owned and
are run by Empresa Portuaria de Chile (EMPORCHI); the remainder are private,
specialized (minerals and petroleum) and general cargo ports. Port policy
aims at encouraging port efficiency through competition among public and pri-
vate ports and, within ports, among terminal operators. Port policy was de-
fined in the 1980s by three major new laws (Laws 18036, 18040 and 18042)
-       dealing with working conditions, customs procedures and port organization
respectively. As a result of the first two laws, productivity increased,
costs declined and congestion was eliminated; the third law was not fully im-
plemented and needs reformulation.
28.       Apart from earthquake damage reconstruction needs in San Antonio
and Valparaiso, future investments in Chilean ports will mainly be for
changeover to new methods of goods handling, such as containerization, which
is proceeding at a rapid rate; and for efficiency improvements, such as bet-
ter access to the ports and to the final destination of the imported goods.
Only the rapidly growing wood products trade may require new capacity invest-
ments in the Concepcion area, from which most wood is exported via the port
of San Vicente and Talcahuano.
29.       Chile has an adequate network of airports; three are used for in-
ternational flights. The Santiago International Airport has been improved
recently, but major expansion plans have been postponed as there appears to
be little urgent need for further expansion.



- 8 -
(iii) State-Owned Mharitime, Air Transport and Pipeline Companies
30.       EMPREMAR, the State shipping company, and LANCHILE, the state-owned
airline, are not scheduled for privatization (for strategic reasons), but no
longer receive Government subsidies, except for specifically identified
routes. They have been exposed completely to local competition in national
transport and to foreign competition in international transport, since the
Chilean Government gives all foreign and local companies access to Chilean
international ports and airports. EMPREMAR is operating satisfactorily, but
LANCHILE is in severe financial difficulties.
31.       Chile's 622-km aetwork of pipelines, which extends frou Coneon in
the center (Fifth Region) to Concepcion in the south (Eighth Region), belongs
to the Sociedad Nacional de Oleoductos (SONACOL), a company owned partly by
private interests and partly by the State-owned Empresa Nacional de Petroleo
(ENAP). The pipelines transport mainly gasoline, diesel and liquified petro-
leum gas (LPG), but also many other petroleum products in lesser quantities
(some 300,000 cubic meters per month in total).
(iv) The Road Subsector
32.       The road network totals about 79,000 km, of which some 12.5 percent
(9,824 km) are paved, either with cement concrete (3,538 km) or with as-
phalt. Because of the country's long and narrow shape, the network is domi-
nated by three major stretches of North-South roads (4,459 km in total), com-
monly referred to as the Longitudinal Road or Route Five (from the First to
the Tenth Region); the Austral Road between Puerto Varas (North of Puerto
Montt in the Tenth Region) and Villa O'Higgins (at the foot of the impenetra-
ble permafrost area in the Eleventh Region); and, finally, Route Nine in the
Twelfth Region between Paso Bagueles on the Argentine border north of Torres
del Paine, and Fuerte Bulnes, south of Punta Arenas.
33.       The longitudinal and the major transversal roads make up Chile's
National Roads or 'A' roads (5,760 km) which, together with the so-called
Regional Roads or 'B" and "C   roads, constitute the Basic Network of
22,831 km. The country also has some 56,165 km of local roads or 'D' and -E-
roads (Principal and Secondary Local Roads).
34.       Annual average daily traffic levels on the main National Roads, as
measured at toll stations, are between 2,000 and 8,500 vehicles. They grew
between 0.2 and 18.3 percent in the 1976-1981 period, but declined by 3.4 and
11 percent in 1982 and 1983, respectively, to grow by 2.4 percent in 1984.
The declines are the combined effect of decreased production and reduced use
of passenger cars as a result of worsened economic conditions.
35.       Another interesting feature of Chilean road traffic is the changing
composition of vehicles in the makeup of traffic and the vehicle fleet. The
share of passenger cars in traffic increased from 60 percent in 1976 to 68
percent in 1982/83, whereas the share of two-axle trucks diminished from 22
percent in 1972/73 to only nine percent in 1983. The share of trucks with
three or more axles increased from five percent to 13 percent in the same
period.
36.       The registered motorized road vehicle fleet appears to have in-
creased very rapidly since 1976 and reached about 891,000 vehicles in 1983,
or about 76 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, versus less than half that many



- 9 -
in 1975. The registered truck fleet, which increased at a similar rate as
the whole fleet in 1976-1978, has since declined every year, indicating both
the degree of oversupply and the lack of demand for truck services, in spite
of depressed trucking rates.
37.       Data on the vehicle fleet, however, continue to lack sufficient de-
tail, and it is hoped that they will be improved under the ongoing study of
the Institutional and Economic Efficiency of the Chilean Transport System,
given their importance in understanding the current market disequilibrium in
trucking (para. 40).
B. Institutional Frasework
38.       Transport-policy-making in Chile is officially the task of the
Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTT), which is in charge of all
modes, but the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) is in charge of all transport
infrastructure works and does road planning. It is also responsible for the
collection of tolls and the implementation of the vehicle weighing program,
but, for the latter two activities, it works in close collaboration with the
Police Force or -Carabineros. The Planning Office (ODEPLAN) published a
broad, non-quantitative Socio-Economic Program for 1981-1989 and updates a
rolling three-year plan every year. It also checks whether proposed trans-
port investments are justified economically according to its guidelines for
analysis and whether they fit into the broad program. The weakest link in
this chain is MTT, which is severely understaffed, both quantitatively and
qualitatively, particularly in its Transport Planning Unit. Even in a
strictly market-oriented economy, the major function of data processing, to
facilitate knowledgeable operation of the market, should be performed satis-
factorily by this Ministry. A recently-approved Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance Loan will address inter alia the linkages between sector
policy formulation and management of the public enterprises in the transport
sector.
C. Main Sectoral Issues
39.       Since taking power in 1973, the Government has actively introduced
measures to implement a market-oriented transport strategy. These measures
include: eliminating restrictions to entry in the road transport industry;
attempting to eliminate all transport sector subsidies; charging air, land
and maritime transport for the use of public infrastructure; decentralizing
decision making in each cransport mode regarding tariffs, design of services,
and personnel policies; and, treating all modes equally in terms of taxes,
social services, etc.
40.       The Government had a certain amount of success with the implementa-
tion of its strategy, but was not fully satisfied with the workings of the
competitive system. It therefore asked the Bank for assistance in determin-
ing the major obstacles in the way of a better functioning transport market
in Chile. This request led to the formulation of a study of the Institution-
al and Economic Efficiency of the Chilean Transport System, which is present-
ly under way with the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America
(ECLA) as executing agency, as well as an IntermDdal Transport Study of the
Corridor Santiago-Ports of the Fifth Region. These studies are being
financed under Loan 2297-CH and are expected to be completed in early 1986.



- 10 -
41.       The major sectoral issues being addressed by these studies are the
modal split in land transport and road user charges; the effects of complete
deregulation of the trucking industry; policy developments in the ports sub-
sector; the impact of subsidy reduction to LANCHILE; and, the physical,
institutional and organizational needs for rapid containerization.
42.      This proposed project will focus upon the following main issues in
the roads subsector: the balance between maintenance and new construction;
training road maintenance personnel; road user charges and diesel taxation.
(i) The Balance between Maintenance and New Construction
43.       Road maintenance and road investment efforts have declined, in dol-
lar terms, from the levels reached in 1981, mainly because of economic prob-
lems, declining goods traffic and rapid devaluation of the peso in relation
to the dollar since 1982. However, in recognition of the deteriorating con-
ditions of the network, maintenance expenditures are expected to rise by 39
percent, in real terms, in 1985. In the years of the project (1986-1988),
they are expected to rise further, in real terms, by as much as 62 percent in
1986, 13 percent in 1987 and 17 percent in 1988, whereas investment expendi-
tures are expected to decline over the same period.
44.       Substantial investments for reconstruction and upgrading of main
roads and for major bridge rehabilitation and reconstruction are expected to
.ontinue through 1985, but will drop off rapidly in 1986 through 1988 - the
rest of the project period - to make way for increasing maintenance expendi-
tures. Recently, however, the IDB approved a US$36 million loan to Chile for
the constnrction of a major penetration road in the Austral area of the coun-
try. This will increase construction expenditures for this road, from an
average of US$5 million per year during 1981-1983 and US$11.7 million in
1984, to an average of US$14.6 million per year over the project period.
This road, evaluated by IDB, has a satisfactory internal rate of return with
rates for individual road sections, excluding time savings, ranging from 12.6
percent to 67 percent. However, because of its long payback period, the
road's priority needs to be closely monitored, particularly in light of the
current economic situation. Nevertheless, the levels of road expenditures
and the balance of the program are still satisfactory. To prevent a trend
toward new construction at the expense of maintenance and rehabilitation from
reappearing, agreement was reached upon the size and composition of the six-
year (1986-1991) roads program (see para. 66), and changes would be made only
in agreement with the Bank.
(ii) Road Maintenance Personnel Training
45.       Although several attempts have been made in the past to establish a
sound personnel training program in MOP and MTT, training still appears to be
a neglected area in the transport sector. Until 1979, training in MOP's
Roads Directorate (Vialidad) was carried out by: (a) an MOP-wide Training
Institute, ITAO (Instituto Tecnico de Adiestramiento de Operarios), for heavy
machine operators, drivers, welders and mechanical maintenance workers; and
(b) a Training Unit of Vialidad, oriented toward training for professional
and administrative personnel. However, because of policy changes and the re-
organization of Vialidad, both units were eliminated and training was as-
signed, as an additional responsibility, to the Administrative Department of
Vialidad which only coordinates courses planned by the Subsecretary of MOP.



- 11 -
46.       Vialidad's management is aware that its personnel needs additional
training to employ more efficiently the work methods to be introduced as part
of the proposed Road Sector Project. Toward this end, Vialidad's Management
is determined to establish a couprehensive training program, aimed at
strengthening the technical skills of professional personnel, aq well as of
road foremen, equipment operators and mechanics. Since Vialidad's training
section lacks experience, the training component included in the proposed
project would help to establish a suitable training department, capable of
implementing the training activities required to achieve the project's insti-
tutional and physical objectives.
(ili) Road User Charges and Diesel Taxation
47.       Road vehicle fuel consumption, in spite of an increase in the
vehicle fleet by more than ten percent per year during 1976-1982, increased
by less than eight percent per year in that period. On the other hand,
diesel consumption increased faster than both gasoline consumption and the
vehicle fleet. Retail prices of automotive fuels cover, with a considerable
margin, the corresponding opportunity costs. As of December 1984, in the
Santiago region, retail prices for regular and premium gasoline were, on the
average, about 43 percent above the international or ex-refinery prices plus
distribution charges and retailers' margins, while diesel oil was retailing
at some 20 percent above.
48.       Although revenues from road users have substantially exceeded the
Government's total road-related expenditures since the mid-1970s, substantial
cross-subsidization exists between gasoline-powered cars, mainly personal
transport, and diesel-powered vehicles, mainly trucks and buses, leading to
inefficiencies in the road and rail traffic mix. The main inequity occurs
because an excise tax of 27 percent is levied upon the ex-refinery price of
gasoline in addition to the 20 percent value added tax levied upon the retail
price before taxes, while no such excise tax is levied on diesel. A diesel
fuel tax would be an efficient way to make the trucking industry pay a larger
share of the road construction and maintenance burden. The Government is
aware of the problem and was planning to implement corrective measures pro-
gressively, following the recommendations of a road user charges study by a
local consulting firm. So far it has not acted because of the acute sensi-
tivity of the nation's influential trucking industry regarding this issue.
49.       The study on the Economic Efficiency of the Chilean Transport
system, which is expected to be completed in early 1986, is addressing the
issue of diesel pricing and road user charges in general in the broader con-
text of the current competitive situation in the land transport market.
Agreement was reached on gradually correcting the retail price of diesel fuel
taking into account the recommendations of this study (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02 (a)).
D. 'Rank Lending Strategy in the Sector
50.       The present Chilean Government has rapidly increased its reliance
on the Bank in the sector to the point where it engages in frequent dialogue
with the Bank concerning the implementation of liberal market-oriented trans-
port policies. In addition, during the preparation of the Second Highway Re-
construction project, emphasis in dialogue shifted from road construction to
maintenance. The Government is convinced that Bank experience would contri-
bute substantially toward introducing sound preventive maintenance and pave-
ment management.



- 12 -
51.       The Bank has responded favorably to this policy change and has ex-
panded its field of activity in Chile from highway reconstruction to road
maintenance and to studies of the whole transport system. These studies may
lead to further Bank operations in other transport subsectors, and are al-
ready contributing significantly to sophisticated personnel training, not
only in the Roads Directorate but also in MTT. It is Bank strategy to expand
and deepen this cooperation (paras. 39-41).
E. Past Bank Participation and Experience
52.       The Bank has been involved in the road subsector in Chile since
1961, through five loans and a credit, totaling about US$219 million. The
Bank operations were for the construction, upgrading and rehabilitation of
more than 3,000 km of roads; the periodic maintenance of about 2,200 km of
roads; the preparation of feasibility and final engineering studies for more
than 1,500 km; and the building of road maintenance capacity through techni-
cal assistance and procurement of maintenance and research equipment.
53.       The First Highway Construction and Maintenance Project was financed
by Credit 4-CH for US$19 million and Loan 287-CH for US$6 million, both in
June 1961. The Second Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 558-CH for US$13.2
million in September 1968) and the Third Highway Project (Loan 668-CH for
US$10.8 million in June 1970) are the first two projects for which Project
Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) were issued (1979 and
1980 respectively). The objectives of these two projects were not fully
realized because of the effects of major changes in the economic, political
and social structure of the country, insufficiency of funds for recurrent
road expenditure and rampant inflation. The latest PPAR drew attention to
the need for selective organization strengthening, which was subsequently ad-
dressed in the First and the Second Highway Reconstruction Projects.
54.       With the First Highway Reconstruction Project (Loan 1927-CH for
US$42 million in April 1981), a new era in Bank relations with Chile
started. The main objective of the project was the reconstruction of about
250 km of Route Five, mainly south of Santiago (IDB was doing another 500
kn). Execution of this loan progressed so well that disbursements were comr-
pleted on schedule in 1984, and compliance with the loan covenants concerning
implementation of axle-load-limit regulations and improvement of road main-
tenance was exemplary. All planned weighing stations are in operation and
axle-load-limit violations have been reduced significantly.
55.       The Second Highway Reconstruction Project (Loan 2297-CH for US$12B
million in August 1983) was approved to help MOP to continue the reconstruc-
tion of 435 km of Route Five north of Santiago, and the reconstruction and
widening of about 411 km of main transversal roads.  It also helped MOP to
start a major road maintenance effort of the Basic Network by financing re-
gravelling, surface dressing and overlays of about 2,200 km of major roads;
construction and rehabilitation of a series of 100 bridges (including 60 km
of access roads); and acquisition of road maintenance equipment and pavement
research and laboratory equipment, as well as consulting services and train-
ing.
56.       Physical project implementation is progressing very well and on
schedule, but disbursements are lower than expected, because of lower-than-
expected project costs, due to the competitive construction market and the
strength of the US dollar in relation to the Chilean peso. At the Covern-



- 13 -
ment's request, the Bank has allowed the Government to execute some emergency
works after a recent storm, and some extra maintenance and rehabilitation
works. With the new arrangements, about US$18 million, In cost savings, of
the US$128 million loan were expected to be canceled eventually. However, in
response to the recent earthquake in Chile, the Bank has aur.nded the loan to
permit a significant portion of the savings to be used for emergency repairs
for roads, bridges, and ports.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
57.       The proposed project was identified during the preparation of the
Second Highway Reconstruction Project (Loan 2297-CH). A Bank mission ap-
praised the project in November 1984. Annex III contains a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington on May
17, 1985 and the Chilean Delegation was headed by Mr. Remberto Urrea Muster,
Director of Vialidad, Ministry of Public Works.
58.       Since the mid-1970s, the Chilean Government has been expanding
municipal responsibilities for services, including health, education and in-
frastructu.e maintenance. Consequently, responsibility for the Local Road
Network (about 56,000 km) was to be turned over to the municipalities. The
Ministry of Public Works' Roads Directorate (MOP's Vialidad) would then have
remained responsible only for the maintenance of the Basic Road Network
(22,500 km). But measures to make village councils responsible for the local
network were never implemented, and Vialidad never completely relinquished
responsibility for the local network.
59.       During transport sector work and the appraisal of an ongoing high-
way reconstruction project (Loan 2297-CH of 1983), the Bank identified as the
major issues: (a) the need to provide more adequate funding and better or-
ganization for maintenance of the basic highway network; and (b) the uncer-
tainty surrounding the intended execution and financing of local road main-
tenance by the municipalities. The first issue was partially resolved by an
adequate construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and mainteaance program
for the basic network for the period 1983-1989, implementation of which was
made a covenant of Loan 2297-CH. To address the second issue, a study was
commissioned to prepare a plan of action and to find adequate financing for
the maintenance of the local network.
60.       Early in the study period the Government and MOP concluded that the
municipalities did not have equipment, personnel, or funds to perform ade-
quate maintenance of local roads, nor would they be able to acquire the
necessary means in the near future. Thus in mid-1983, Vialidad started pilot
rural road maintenance programs in three southern provinces to establish the
extent of possible voluntary contributions from the municipalities for the
execution of these programs.
61.       Based upon the results of the pilot programs, Vialidad now feels,
and the Ministries of Interior and Finance agree, that it should re-estab-
lish, as an objective, the assuming of full responsibility for most of the
road network; municipalities, however, are still expected to collaborate with
Vialidad on easily accessible roads of purely local interest. As a first



- 14 -
step, Vialidad has prepared a program for the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the Primary Local Network (24,000 km), including a lump sum of money for
FFrforming spot interventions on the remaining, much less travelled,
32,000 km of the local network (Secondary Local Network) whenever traffic
flows are seriously impeded.
62.       Vialidad is capable of executing this expanded program and of help-
ing to create an atmosphere of cooperation with the municipalities for the
spot maintenance of the remainder of the network. Vialidad is also ready to
help the Ministries of Finance and the Interior to redefine the physical and
financial role of the municipalities in maintenance of the Secondary Local
Network on the basis of experience under ongoing pilot projects. Agreement
was reached that Vialidad would prepare by December 31, 1986, a maintenance
plan for secondary local roads, satisfactory to the Bank, including redefini-
tion of the physical and financial role of the municipalities (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)).
63.       The objectives of the proposed project are to help the Government
to: (a) complete a major main road reconstruction effort; (b) continue to
improve the organization and execution of overall maintenance for the remain-
ing gravel roads in the basic road network; (c) re-establish a functional
local road maintenance system with improved technical execution; (d) improve
Vialidad's competence in the economic evaluation of road maintenance and re-
habilitation activities; (e) streamline the road maintenance efforts of muni-
cipalities through a study of possible voluntary physical and financial con-
tributions to the maintenance of the Secondary Local Network; and, (f)
strengthen the capability of Vialidad's Road Maintenance Directorate through
a comprehensive training program.
B. The Government's Roads Program 1985-1991
64.      The Government's planned road expenditures for the 1985-1991 period
cover three years beyond the 1986-1988 project period. Another operation in
the additional three years would be necessary for further consolidation of
the substantially increased activity and expansion of the maintenance effort
to the Secondary Local Network, which, under the proposed project, would get
only spot attention (para. 61). The 1985-1991 period is also the time during
which the ongoing major reconstruction and deferred maintenance efforts
should be substantially completed. Du-:ing this period, the Government plans
to complete the previously discussed Austral Road (para. 44) and to complete,
particularly during 1989-1991, a major widening of the Santiago-Valparaiso
(including tunnels) and Santiago-San Antonio roads, leading to the most im-
portant ports and summer tourism areas. All significant construction, recon-
struction and upgrading elements in the program, especially during the next
three years, are already included in ongoing Bank and IDB projects.
65.       The Government's planned road expenditures are reasonably balanced
(paras. 43 and 44) and all major elements of the Program are subject to eco-
nomic evaluation using a methodology developed by ODEPLAN, which has been re-
viewed and found acceptable by the Bank. Since ODEPLAN's method of economic
evaluation does not include program optimization, this was done by Vialidad
and the Bank, mainly for the reconstruction and maintenance program. Rates
of return for the currently planned program are significantly higher than
those for individual construction projects.



- 15 -
66.       As this project would represent the sector investment program,
agreement was reached during negotiations on the level and detailed composi-
tion of the 1986 road expenditure program; on tentative programs for 1987-
1988 and on spending levels for investment and maintenance for the period
1989-1991. These programs and spending levels would be discussed at least
semi-annually and adjusted and agreed with the Bank at least annually (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c) (i)).
C. Project Cost and Finacing
67.       The proposed project consists of the Government's 1986-1988 Road
Investment and Maintenance Program. The total project cost amounts to
US$655.5 million (including about 20 percent identifiable taxes and duties)
with a foreign exchange component of US$346.8 million.  The foreign exchaage
component is broken down into US$300.8 million of capital costs (87 percent
of the total foreign exchange cost) and US$46.0 million of recurrent costs.
The proposed loan of US$140 million would finance 40 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of the project. Financing from the ongoing project
(Loan 2297-CH), ongoing IDB loans and a supplier credit of US$13.5 million
to be arranged in conjunction with this project, amounts to about US$114.5
million. The balance of $401 million will be financed by the Government,
with possible additional financing from commercial banks. I/ The
maintenance program, excluding several specific maintenance works financed
under Loan 2297-CH and IDB Loan 490/OC-CH, has been selected for Bank loan
disbursements to ensure the timely execution of this high priority component.
68.      For the estimation of the foreign exchange component of civil
works, MOP has developed a computer program that establtshes the foreign cost
of each construction or maintenance item and calculates the foreign cost for
typical operations. The foreign cost for consulting services was estimated
assuming that contracts would normally be awarded to local firms with a
limited participation of foreign consultants (para. 70).
69.       Because of the sectoral approach of this project, no physical con-
tingencies have been included. Price contingencies for 1986, 1987 and 1988,
on the basis of March 1985 prices, assume internal and external price in-
creases of five percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for 1986 and eight percent in
1987-1989.
70.       The cost estimates for civil works related to investments are based
upon quantity estimates and current unit prices, and are reasonable given the
standards proposed and the expected traffic. The cost for consulting
services has been estimated assuming about 80 man-months for foreign consult-
ants and 1,188 man months for local consultants.
D. Project Components
71.      The investment component includes civil works and consultant serv-
ices. The civil works component comprises construction, reconstruction and
upgrading. Construction consists mainly of the Austral Road and some widen-
ing or doubling of sections of major, heavily travelled roads, as well as a
one-lane road between Punta Arenas and Puerto Natales (Route Nine of the
1/   Cofinancing is under consideration under the  B- Loan program.



- 16 -
Longitudinal Road), and a few new bridges and urban overpasses. Reconstruc-
tion is mainly the continuation of the major effort to reconstruct Route
Five, the main thoroughfare of the country, and major transversal roads. Up-
grading consists mainly of a program of paving major gravel roads with more
than 300 vehicles per day, some of them part of the basic network. Finally,
the consultant services component deals mainly with local consultants to
supervise the investment activities (see map).
72.       The maintenance compoaents include civil works, equipment and con-
sultant services and training. Civil works comprise routine, periodic and
deferred maintenance of the Basic Network and of the Primary Local Network.
Routine maintenance includes grading and spot regravelling of unpaved roads,
joint and crack patching and sealing of paved roads, right of way clearing
and maintenance of drainage structures, road signs and bridges. Periodic
maintenance includes resealing, surface treatments and overlays of-paved sur-
faces, regravelling of unpaved surfaces and repair of bridges and river
drainage structures. Deferred maintenance focuses upon bringing neglected
paved and unpaved roads back to normal maintenance standards.
73.       The eMuipment component includes procurement of road maintenance
equipment and vehicles to replace wornout units and to increase the stock of
equipment co handle a larger network. The equipment will serve to execute
the limited force account operations included in the road maintenance program
and the vehicles will be used for project supervision. The tentative list of
equipment to be purchased and its procurement schedule have been confirmed
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)).
74.       The consulting services component includes professional services
for: (a) project coordination; (b) engineering studies; (c) supervision of
major civil works; (d) continuation of the long range pavement evaluation and
design studies directed toward the establishment of an adequate management
system, initiated under the Second Highway Reconstruction Project
(Loan 2297-CH); (e) training; and (f) other feasibility and engineering
studies to prepare a possible future project.
75.       Finally, the training component will consist of the implementation
of a series of coordinated measures to upgrade the maintenance capability of
Vialidad, including: (a) training of about 2,000 technical and administra-
tive employees; and (b) provision of technical assistance in: (i) pavement
follow-up and condition monitoring; (ii) road maintenance administration;
(iii) surface treatment; (iv) planning; (v) equipment administration; and
(vi) organization and administration of training programs. To carry out
the training program, the project would further provide fellowships abroad
for about 27 Vialidad professionals, interregional tours for about 46 profes-
sionals, and 48 staff-months of expert and consultant services. A training
advisory committee, staffed by the heads of key departments of Vialidad and
led by the deputy director, was appointed during project preparation. The
recommendations of this committee served as basis for the preparation of the
present report. It was agreed, by November 30, 1985, the Government would
furnish to the Bank a plan of action to carry out the Training Program and
that no later than December 31, 1985, it would establish and staff the
national organization for training for the road subsector - comprising the
headquarters Training Unit, regional coordinators and training advisory com-
mittees (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c) (ii)).



- 17 -
E. Project kcutlon sud Procuremet
76.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of Vialidad,
which has a central regional staff of about 4,000 including some 200 profes-
sionals of which 150 are engineers. Government policy is to keep Vialidad's
staff small and to execute as much work as possible by contract. Execution
of the maintenance elements of the project would be conducted out of
Vialidad's 13 regional offices. Vialidad's Maintenance Department, which is
currently being reorganized and strengthened, would be responsible for over-
all supervision of this work.
77.       The general procurement information for the project is presented in
the table below. Procurement of Bank-financed project components would be in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. MOP's civil works
tendering and contracting system is in accordance with Bank Guidelines and
has been used successfully so far in the award of 40 contracts for about
US$88 million under Loan 2297-CH. About 65 percent of routine maintenance,
representing some US$59 million, would be executed by force account; the re-
maining 35 percent of routine maintenance and all periodic and deferred main-
tenance, totalling about US$230 million would be contracted. Force account
is being used only for operations which can be executed more economically by
this method than by contracting and will not increase in future. Contracts
for civil works estimated to cost US$2.0 million or more, or packages of
smaller contracts with a combined cost of about US$2.0 million, would be
awarded through international competitive bidding. Contracts estimated to
cost less than US$2.0 million, or packages having a combined cost below this
threshold, would be procured following local competitive bidding procedures,
which were reviewed in detail and found to be satisfactory. Thus based on
the high capacity and competitiveness of the local construction industry as
well as the experience under the past two road lending operations, it is ex-
pected that almost all contracts will be awarded to local contractors. All
contracts will be tendered and awarded by MOP subject to past review by the
Bank in view of the excellent previous contracting performance by MOP.
Agreement was reached on bidding and contracting procedures (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, Section I). All consultants would be recruited in
conformity with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section II).



- 18 -
1/
Genral Prouewenet aetbods
Procureint Metbods
ICB      LCB      Otber       N.A.       Total Cost
Civil Works            250.0    306.3        58.8 3/   -             615.1
(20.0)  (184.7)     (58.8)     -            (263.5)
Equipment                8.1       -         20.4 4/   -              28.5
Consultant Services
and Training             1.7      8.7        -         1.5           11.9
(1.7)    (5.5)       -        (1.5)          (8.7)
Total                  259.8    315.0        79.2       1.5          655.5
(21.7)  (190.2)     (58.8)    (1.5)         (272.2)
1   Amounts in brackets are financed by the proposed Bank loan.  All figures
include physical contingencies.
2/  Not applicable:  Scholarships abroad and miscellaneous training expendi-
tures.
3/  Routine maintenance executed by force account.
4/  Equipment to be procured under cofinancing arrangements.
F.   Dishorse aents and Special Account
78.       Bank loan disbursements would be made against:  (a) 50 percent of
total expenditures for maintenance, except for works financed under Loan
2297-CI and IDB Loan 490/OC-CH; and (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for expatriate consultants and training fellowships abroad and 50 percent for
local consultants and training.
79.       Considering the numerous small contracts involved and MOP's proven
adequate contracting and payment procedures and its capacity for swift and
effective work execution, simple and quick disbursement procedures would be
used. Withdrawal applications would be on the basis of monthly statements of
expenditures for the execution of the different components of the agreed
specific maintenance program. The monthly statements would comprise expendi-
tures for works executed by contract and for routine maintenance executed by
force account. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank,
but would be retained by MOP and made available for review during project
supervision missions and audits. Agreement was reached on these arrangements
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 (c)).
80.       To reduce the interval during which MOP would finance the Bank's
share of project costs with its own resources, the Government might request
the Bank to make advance payments into a Special Account, to be opened in US
dollars in the Central Bank, and which would be available for reimbursing MOP
for the Bank's share of the project cost. The total amount in the Special



- 19 -
Account would not exceed US$12.0 million, the amount required for about four
months of project execution (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
C. Audi ting
81.       It was agreed that the Contraloria General de la Repub±ica, as in-
dependent auditor, would: (a) consistently apply procedures and methods
satisfactory to the Bank that conform to generally accepted auditing stand-
ards; (b) carry out its auditing work in a timely manner - annual reports
will be presented not later than four months after each calendar year; and
(c) maintain an independent character performing its role as auditor (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 (b) (i) and (ii)).
B. Economic Evaluation
82.       The economic evaluation of this project was performed in two
phases. In a first phase, the whole network of the country was evaluated by
Vialidad, using the Second Generation Highway Design and Maintenance Stand-
ards Model. This evaluation resulted in internal rates of return of selected
construction, reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance activities. On the
basis of the rates thus obtained, an investment and maintenance program for
the period 1985-1991 was prepared. Most of the investments in that program
for the project period 1986-1988 are included in ongoing Bank and IDB pro-
jects. The rates in the investment program range between 15 and 38 percent.
83.       Because of the high rates of return obtained on maintenance activ-
ities, it was decided that further economic evaluation should concentrate
upon expanding and optimizing the Government's road maintenance effort. In
the second phase, the Bank's new Third Generation Highway Design and Mainte-
nance Model was used.  This model predicts the life-cycle costs of different
road design and maintenance options, including different time-staging strate-
gies, either for a given road project on a specific alignment or for groups
or links of an entire road network. It estimates the total costs for large
numbers of alternative maintenance policies on a year-by-year basis, and can
thus be used to search for the alternative with the highest net present value
at given discount rates, or the highest rate-of return. The objective is,
thus, to search out that combination of standards and policies which results
in the minimum total life-cycle costs to society, including the costs to road
users, as well as the costs borne by the Highway Authority. Vehicle speeds
and operating costs, and road deterioration and maintenance costs, are esti-
mated internally by the model as a function of the road design and main-
tenance standards, traffic volume and axle loads, and environmental condi-
tions. Maintenance and vehicle operating costs are first estimated in physi-
cal quantities; then, prices and unit costs, as specified by the user, are
applied to determine the total financial, economic and foreign exchange cost.
84.       Twenty-seven maintenance policies were evaluated for each link of
paved roads and 31 for gravel and earth roads. The evaluation for each link
was done on the basis of the net present value and of the rate of return,
first assuming no budgetary constraints and later taking into account the
available budgets for the project period. The rate of return of the program
on asphalt roads is about 49 percent and, on the gravel and earth roads, it
is over 100 percent. The analysis also shows that, witb the proposed expend-
iture level, the Government will move rather close to an economic optimum in
maintenance.



- 20 -
I.  Risk Aaeusmet
85.       There are no major risks affecting the proposed project.
Vialidad's performance under the last two projects has been very good.
Loan 1927-CH was completed on schedule and Loan 2297-CH is on schedule as far
as the physical execution of works is concerned. There may be some uncer-
tainty regarding the availability of counterpart funds and the capacity of
Vialidad to execute planned works and contracts without staff increases. The
second factor will be monitored closely. As far as the first is con-
cerned, the Government attaches high priority to the implementation of the
project, partly in the framework of a broader objective of employment
generation. The Government has already included the funds required for the
project in its current three year plan and agrees to provide necessary funds
as required for planned expenditures as modified from time to time in agree-
ment with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (a)).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RCOI OIS
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 23, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                  AMUI
PaWe  of 6
mu.m            ~- anew  imiCaums ha  ISV         XO      XU 
IOT A  ) L     3
CUtE                      h3SU3NS~~IRI   abmP  (WIShM AExAIEs) p
S1                  (NM   -   WOEsI) -it
Imlit    17al  nunauLkb    LAT. aNusca A CARmOOB
am cairn 
TOTAL                            757.0       757.0       757.0
aZeLhIfIL                        184.4       1X3.9       174.3
C  S  CW1U (S)                      630.0     11f0.0       210.0             2109.6                 2345.5
m_mane a_ cwm
(ULOCMU OF OIL UqfALh)           570.0      879.0       7n4.0               953                   1Z22.a
iUne -  SE *swAnmne
POPUIATIOV.MID-T*A (THOUSANS)   7563.0     9369.0      11487.0
O"S POPLATION (a OF TTAL)         67.3       75.2         32.1                .5                   46.6
POLATION WOJUCltTO
POPUTION I IR A 2000 (KILL)                             14.7
STATIOUY POPULATIMN (MXLL)                              20.7
rPOPLnTO   muin                                          1.7
PPl^ATIO  DESITT
PER SQ. a.                      10.0        12.4        14.                35.7                  82.9
PR SQ. MI. ACRI. LAND           56.4        59.0        64.8               92.4                 155.9
POPUlATION AG nuocTum (2)
0-14 Us                        3.1         35.1        31.4               39.9                  31.6
L5-64 US                        36.5        57.2        62.9               56.0                  61.1
65 AND AOV                       4.3         '.6         5.6                4.1                   T.1
POPULATION GROM RATE CZ)
TOTAL                            2.2         2.1         1.7                2.4                   1.6
URBAN                            3.7         3.1         2.4                3.6                   3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TUUS)       34.4        26.8        23.1               31.3                  23.4
CRUDC ODATH ISATE (PER THOUS)     12.6        6.9          6.7                5.1                   8.8
GROSS REPROOUCTION RAM             2.5         1.8         1.3                2.0                   1.6
FAMILY PLNNI
ACCEPTORS. AENIAL (TUOUS)         -.       215.7       265.8 It
UsEas (2 OF rRIN D UWO)           ..          ..          ..               40.3
INE OF FOOD PROD. PR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0       104.0        98.0              114.3                 114.5
PR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOIES C( oP RCQUIREENT)      110.0       110.0       114.0              110.6                 12a.6
PROTEINS (GAMS FE DAY)          71.0        71.0        76.0               67.3                  59.7
OF WXCR L         A MMUL SFE   28.0       30.0        27.0 Ic            34.1                  34.5
C3LD (ACES 1-4) DOATK RATE        20.0        9.0          2.0               5.7                    5.2
LIFE URCT. AT mIRM  (EARS)        56.9       62.4         69.7              64.7                   67.4
INFANT HRT. RATE 1MN THOUS)      119.0       8Z.0        27.0               60.6                   54.2
ACESS TO SAFE WATER (XPFP)
TOTAL                           62.0        56.0        82.0 Id            65.4
URBAN                           78.7        67.0        93o.0 d            73_                     .
RURAL                           11.4        13.0        38.0D7             4.2
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        29.0        32.0 Ia            52.9
URBAN                                       33.0        36.o 71            67.0
RURAL                             ..        10.0        I1.0 o7            24.5                     .
POPUIATION PEN PHYSICIAN        1780.0     2130.0       1930.0 /d          1917.7                1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          640.0      610.0        450.0 73          815.6                  76.4
POP. EN. ROSPtAL BED
TOTAL                          260.0       260.0       280.0 /f           367.2                 326.3
URDAN                          270.0       280.0       320.0 7;          411.5                  201.5
RURAL                             ..      1610.0       770.0 7;          2636.3
ADMISSIONS PEA HOSPITAL RED         ..         ..         28.0 Ic            27.3                  20.0
AUVRAS SIZE or MOUSINoLSI
TOTAL                            5.           5.1
URBAN                            5.2         5.0
RURAL                            6.0         5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF WRSONSIROUM
TOTAL                            1.7         1.4
URBA                             1.6         1.3
RURAL                            2.0         1.7          .. ?.
ACCESS TO ELCT. (Z oF OURELINOS)
TOTAL                           70.6          ..        78.9 la
URBAN                           86.3         ..         90.07; 
WRRAL                           23.9          *.        35.0..



-22-                                        ANh I
Page 2 of 6
L L~~~AI~                      aoni  knAn)L
Cllsu - sse NM oD  *M~
un~~~G zov(nb   nu   I
ADJUNTID ISMOWI   mmIZC
iazmuit  TOTA                    109.0       1CY. 0       115.0               105.4                   101L1
WIL                    111.0      17.0         12.0                10.                     1053.S5
V             nom                  107.0       10.0         L14.0              104.5                    96.7
ICOUDAMs SOUL                     24.0        39.0         57.0                43.2                   "5.
ILA                    24.0        36.0         52.0                42.3                    U.
nWAL                   ae.0        4z.o         02.0                44.5                    50.6
VOCATZOL (I Of S Uc      )          26.2        33.0         29.2                33.6                    2M.
PnAU                                ...       3o-          **0L                 0.1                    23.1
10c0203                           14.0        13.0         20.0                16.6                    20.3
AU16T LITERACT RATS (2)               .6        19.0           ..                79.5                    7.6
IASIUI     CARS/mouD lOP             7.4        11.6         40.2                46.0                    54.7
szan  fAhCCMS/UOUIaAD  POP         1304.       143.4        292.7               225.6                   164.9
TV                   l0              0.1        53.4        110.3               107.2                   123.6
n tMDUY =mu&
EIAUM ) atCuLAno .
11 TUOUII IOPULATU1              131.6        B4.1    J 6.6 j                  63.5                    96.3
CUM  *161*1 AU    T LUAIIC/ A        7.1         4 4.7        1.4                 2.6                     2.9
TO9UL 1A0  0r  (T30US)            2505.0      2863.0       3690.0
tIIuIz (P3Z3.3)                   21.7        22.0         26.4                23.2                    34.3
AORICIOLTUR  (130C3U1)            30.2        22.6         19.2                31.5                    40.7
3NDUSTRI (131?)                   20.1        21.0         19.4                23.9                    23.3
PART- CUFAIO Mu  (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             33.0        30.6         32. L               32.2                    42.9
IALZ                              52.1        4.4          47.7                49.3                    54.7
FtNAL                             14.2        13.3         16.6                15.2                    31.0
&CONOMKC DZE ECTr RAT0               1.3         L.4          1.2                 1.4                     0.9
PErMT or MM= IMCNIE
M5CIT   ar IO IS                     ..         ..           ......
320C336 20S or W    -usEB           ..        51.4           . 
LOW1ST 205 of 11                               4.47 
L09 40 OFJSEUOLD                    ..        13.4 7}
ETL      A31101=  POV331 130Km
LEVL CUOS PM 
01315                               ..          ..        360.0 1t1           288.2
RURAL                               ..          ..           ..               164.0
ESTUID mRLTE P0m13   13ca¢
LEME (C5$ PER CADITA)
U11II                               ..                    640.0 id            522.6
RURAL                               ..          ..           ..               372.4
ZSTLTED POP. BELOW A350L1T2
POVER  D1C=  LEVEL (Z)
*. ..                                   .....
I0? AVAZLAN.E
NMT APLMCAIL
NOT Z S
/a   The sroup averam  for each indicator are populamtin-veShbted aritbeatic mans. Cowarap of countrieS  smng the
indiSatora depend  an evallabLl.ty of data and in not uniferm.
/b   Unless otbhrvie  noted, -Dota for 19600 refer to any yer betwee  1959 and 1961; -ata for 1970' betwee  1969 and
1971; ad data for 'Most lacent Eetlate' between 1960 and l962.
/c  1977; /d 1979; la 1975; If 1978; iL Preonal In gowermAt services only; lb 1962; /I 1968.
JUIE* 1964



-wea  M    .    -    abeA ebal-Iss    t-I   -
as- suauFd  -   a-       - - s-a -  b  .       V-aS   a- ai   s-0
ai.-a-n-p ov WI.e b - la- bo, .up "a -a an-aq
-  -ada   0  WSq    dissaup -    -a 1U        1)fPl *j        s
ablei pa  p-a.14a-s         .sol alota   Iu.aS)3M.IJ@         -4- -
doe-P -        P-n W    p -  *5tWd       k-lila   i La fi-
I.la    au-bu--isa Sh -au s abs - -a a 19 9lwebo  P     i 55IT  Bf
Vftl --r                                                   P_~~~~~~~~J *Jk- es,a  1   13£b p1-Md-a  taa    - ,    lbabs n a)
1- "-1- .1-.                                                   we~~~~~p-      *lp8611   sq - P p-iwn". 5-au
aaa      -p. aa  p-   Kfif l.1 aada  a1  weseas" aitbs-d      s-s
-  5        ls-ubss A.   51l4  SItI J.-a    Cats-La-u
asIabla  -I                                                                    -Sl-d% P     flal,aa.bsladii-aaSs-ls- sra,--pi.s-u-i
V.  I.,                                                                                                           i- -a-    a..auugaas-s
-s-a. --a' -u-s  a-saaaas-auug-J  A.s-a-a- 631*1aal                            rd-e-Wss- -;tW             z
s-a      .aaapa.  psa-I.uasu~- -3d  -p .atp.flutal.ssa.ipa  "-ab awl -ra K    sp-  at                 9uW d"as I sS   -1-s of     4a.a-
!fJtl   -  Is--sad  u-a -eab i ia or s.- -al P u    sat  tuavsa        yS   sli -ay   aa-a                                         jass   sl- su  s
- 5ua.a "a  rb"a ft -  T-us-  S- ,".   ben awe   ass-s                                             -d S. Ma-i.aaspo-Pas   tuquisag"*Pipa-
*-t.sa a5.atpmn qu  1-aaisaa  .1 r.at-al .-l   Sd Goi-    P                       -s- f ISatd --   suaaudp  5p- ab
"a atis-s  'san  a.  -s,s-   pes .u-at-a5   As-a aaa a MP3 R",e n1La6   &s  alaab.ahils~su S                                  laals        aibb --ss iaD
s- S. #-  I                                                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~M    s- a- Aa ap    a  a aMM ".     Pabbos Dad* 55 u-d3ua. -a S Mbb
---  1-3-  =           p6   1St                       -u-s-l ".ia,a M           q m-flllu.  -bb   ba  yj as-~ u
utls  M a   S-sd"       -tsd       as -ta   uaaau  ba--*aau assbaaad---sg   1- "aw  awl  -as "be "S    %-a. ad u-a-  5a'   -sf
st-wa., a-aa-al   (P P- "a tunatt tP- al ala 1a.adal.sb                          ad          s-, laai -   a-p   aawes a-gna. a. .$aa    -Apl   a
"as 0%1   -A  ~      ual-(t  5  a-paalatd                 ..lllS-v ".1              %iIl      - e.-  0-asa.aa  i-uS..eM   s-sant-a lis-  a              jiuala
~ta  a. s "   uuaas-tssvSa   p  us-l- .atadaue-t.a itJ                            -as-a 56) as    P- uasasy ,   WI   a- S   pas.l".5-tu-
1",    Gibe       aasat -,M    a tl 1 J.5aa P                             aa5       -aas-duilat  it, as-5       - "a   s-ya     "a-w  -~ mS   5l5l
?Aaataat  a u5a.as-l    t     "--         p"  51x t.lla                            *1   a'lasa   l.s.    -lad - "                   -  sataaaaabu 
9 tuttdIl5~t5    4   Mu  a P" ItThtl - 5rOra a                                                               pas-    -Ibws-uiaalillau,d
-asb.)-f tal"                        -ua  alal  saq =-uu  anN-al s-wa,  -ai .        S.VbM  lAlsu       p
"a Vaus-%  -s.ssaa ~auwa ut r5   laqal- auaasatuastal        "a P- s 3-Pl-. s-11.,   *a.ulD- N-5.. lua-                l    Ai 'au-a
s-sita  ~la.alauua  a.S -alp                 ISMa-  ta taala  "A  las Sl0                      .si S.0 jlsb   sa    i     i       aulll6   a
"a. bu-ua.u  taa    a.uaulmt-("Ual5as   *51ja-    paa&al   ast                                                                      *wi                5a-W6
z-gresbed  0-1-                             0~~~~~tit-  -us                  aas  aamlaaa -1  (as-as Mus-a   As-               s--      ss-u  'luT-A
ms-wi . agalSP-dls-lauPaV.wtt                                                                                              is- aa  ali   p51attaM    s-asa
- suws-ha-a   taasauuI    lp.'1-                                      aaii-i p ase. s u-a-  O- gap. "asJ  a4ls-n   -          aaca    -Mpt-sast
taus-id        s-sa..  ! abth-a    aaa  auaa-p,uat                                       M     fl n         au   as.lassaap ;:= -uaLcs   -s-   ayl
-flld~II        --61  - sus-lasss     t-a MP M   a5      ua  a   lu                                auspa 'as aw- - asrM s-B a-r..". lM
a-saaaa      - as  a "'a uau ""' u-us-uS    a    saditjs-.  was-a.                                                        -s
-uw w.bs-cM la' sa  s.aas S a)- -5 (aab wVl      . ma-qI a     55a     l                   a.55a   -a-iasst-a   a
atsaas  a-l.    w a-aptl        a                                                         u  tsy      ...a
5.W  u-J. alqa-a -I       s      aa  ssa           . .sa.         -a- -64p wa ";tp-w a~  Iasea-slw u,-:vL-!L Ir5.taaa"  ss    -
aura  a aaats-a  p s-s1 ua - sia-is".  - .  -,   a -a   .   1wa-a                                -w-as  "a  Wa-autaaw                =     ,w -a .'baa`
-asuu  iaa                       -s   aa  Ja a      1-as  ss.a   Ian- laas-  cas.ai .u14u lu-)1 -s1 ua
Ma  1s--auu   araa5tpau .u-uia-taas-ad wuus- a-u -~us-ia..  aaa.aas-p   s  "a   s15 Pat uaaaaua.
sala  -lla. .s-a.aa4 - us 'wlta mau *aA-u ..a aR ."aaua                                                              -mluaa   alaada5-."aua cuMsas"    .cs
am      p. a -  ascqa   jaapt .-  .vuIua   Iua    1.apas Al u-  aa11a                                                                 hiT--$-  saiTi11ow
aaabutauttl aapaa-4 w..asladap- - * ta.aid.-au           - It  *--a aau-aaS.-        u aallas-aitiaajmlauts -uaP,  s
I.".s uiula ati    aa-.a  u-sal-a   uaswusald     aMIS                        aut q         at,W asau a        lt,-:sbb  As-". atlu,da  asaaau  es- auubau
&--w -tuaa   uisaa -  ua"aa -1         1--a-5 aauas.   s-aa                    l0 a-, aus-a    s-.  baea   a5 u, aa      3a   alde "P  p1 s-la-F
-IM    :14"    weof o  MAp"-aaLt.-aap  3                             ajb -.uuaa p-s-. -ss- 1i   .utqaas*.  tanaaa
a. $   .s-asg-uas. tef       1   a.a-sW- ~     a   a 51..    AtuSdat                             wew pu. aatq      aiwusaswed  Vsa~a-sua  s-P-  labobvll es-
sn-a  up    .l   -aawatsa                s    a.uaaaau-l                                 -n ,taa  -sld   - Aua-u I~                           S'ssai
l.a  s-uasap  Laisa      ns-taiu-alau   aa . a-ia(p   sal waa A.-ann a cd   -au    bau -s-Is-sAlad I sa--a MA -owu.ias s-lsd
suaflaaa a- Sna.aE a.   ~         4a  a --,&js vulla  p-shIa-u-1 Assesale-Ma ll u-ti Pe, --Iaaapaam                                               d-a
ad.a."Saala-    a  -aw  ta    susAbs"asiuau " aI I-aa- auqasu
as.  IS                 -ga   ua- -Geel bbvbi  lq u. 1.asbM   e .. Ma *-1aasP5S   t5d
P.   ~IM&   1--A"-  ".1-  wmtl  -Al-leasseas labssuu  al as-i "a  -as Anui  as" s-up-I-  a15,laftAs als-laPI s--ma
auaaulluaan1-b   Ouuca  u-isr"    "a  an-          buas A.                        ub aaaq bs-a s-9 aolaa itul aiaai h- aaaua     all  ah-a
auPlaaaa  a aaaa    luaaat  sessuRdtiu Il4. aUujj9 as a5                            rLa 1t  aslttcaa    Is Pt alut atm   "a16  tfs  -sm-u    3-
-S u.aw..  be a-  A     -las-a    - c.suuu    V i -a.1- .aast-u  aaaaO W.aM    qaasa.,Su s1j    -   am ~                                        - S-as-ala-
alas p-ldaais-a     - s-ala a- s-uh is s-s-i Atuau   Iqaaad               sa.daa
au papaaau at-  's-as- anga  1-hpi- aq -alata al-a5111 M p.a                        flapI  p  £ut-sflua 1 mA. a--a-    -1I s.,:''
P"ama-b a,-l   "flaw-n-  -5aulpa1plups 1         Is     .. A-lssarm - a"-t.a--balaS   u-s- as p-a- haatir 
Isedialad I al-d  sesesr"I"Of        Mat  s-*,uA u                                                               ---unFaarlus  esuuu 'at aalI
lujja. Alalupa ad -   saimpa , a-  5al  -avdsq;s    MP Pa   uu-43-43voesua-tutail.3vsilPi                                    -fe         a,-abs-  is-  "aa
p.. J..1." P-   -as.wd.  ga-  ss-lp-SI a- abut p-tws   apuaa1d                 ls-u  aMi-hadb a.aualta  a* p                     40-tlutghtaslfl   sa .sP    MD
geup- I q laa usuluilud   iq  -au. '-ultasa   s-a aa.aaausup-                         suuaajai auas-  uaad&ua
Pa.p-tsabsuAdus-a` asuuas  aSPI.a.lsa    suuiaad                us-t t-i                                                                  .iu  tat.. "atia  a
aaaa  anuiata  . -- S-,ts-dan  s1atIPl papusaplga..w  a-.  u-aJ..
Poss411w bll iftsse abt .P  ~l~l- ~-aa-aauuu IasJtals -                     tests l.b   uaawuaaI .tftam-a a W lAMs P IPalu- Pm  beS   taslmota taaa V-u-
a-a -WAaa  j.aIaS,  as- st-aesls-WM a&I_   a.ls-gP" o as"l-a   pau -js-               atlss-utasaI    -   A. tah-ba p.b b-a u."uttauba u.uaatuau.#    "a  WJII7ulUW1s,
as515u ls-di36 Ia-s .4I)apsdasp aus sad -   0 ha   batst "WU  os-gu  s-ad   A    .      MI    .     -     belos   s           1 mA   saPies) hAl -  ,jjL
au1 -ud AstlaSaa  sa wacs'     1a  e tut"aa  p, J55if1 %al.  ..                       tos   nu-pa5u"   s."t  uts.5a-  ljP   .-
hualuuaad a- sats-a Sq  apI-up -a"llauwd,ad -                       es, blefts w2jm 5*15hiaelp5isaw15                J slas aabo .l fisuaiV'is&
pa. as-sa al suf sus   a as-Pp-u        a-s-.- al buhas- .5'l -a- tuls- aaa0 m".ba   a-s-A t "INlS-aa au-up-ul   -  p ass- ..lelsis-Ji"s at 1saiitet
u-t ta-  -es-la  aaasus- -as,a  "aP as-p a-1b  dlaqiun- alias- an-Sa  seau-si A P-a   waadew au"' alpvc pulp"s-aeb tha, %Mt- "Il ij aes-a "a be
- .a1.'sl-us-las  ta- Atsag    S" 5S  .-  a-a   M"up-  l.a al".            napblusa  pauuus- s-us-ta"  .4- = ss-ia-altb -u         bap i -au u-aaa    ft. Ob -u-...bsist
9    ;O    E    asud                                      W~~~~-Ilss-aanal eIsaaPa=uat  -alaf   a*a    ua-   uaS   aaai   -m



-24- 2 
uaU - mC m
-p             11.700mL,7C  -19  d&Ama)
Q       4     t s 11,971.5 (1913)
OU se Xt-    -  h 
VWL AC 3
on"    _     Pfi:               19,436         7.8    5.7  -14.3  -0.8          6.3        2.0     3.0      3.4     3.4     3.4     3.B
PgdAp1aaL.                     1,749         3.8    5.3  -2.3  -0.9           7.3        3.5    3.0       3.5     3.5     3.5     3.5
1xitzt                         4275          6.2    2.  -21.6    3.0         11.5        2.0     3.0      2.5     3.5    3.5      4.5
Oer                           L13,410        9.1    6.7  -13.4  -1.9           4.6       1.5    3.0       3.§     3.3     3.4     3.6
CXA*i                           tiM6           4.2   12.2  -M.5    sa.          4.5       -1.7     0.0      1.3     L.5    1.1      W.
Game  inv  il                   2,718        31.2    5.7  -65.4   15.3        72.1       -0.2    14.2      3.4     9.4    0.3      9.7
bprof Goaod   d WS               4,6b0        14.3   -.3   10.9    1.4          4.1        6.5     8.0      4.5     5.1     5.5     5.7
bpjm of lmb sd WS               .4,522        18.7   14.7  -32.9  -9.4         14.2      -12.5  ;.6         2.1     3.6    3.5      4.2
xm. _ ihdul Sviq                   842        27.7  -41.1  -34.7  -1.7         84.7       36.9    32.9    14.1    21.2   21.8    16.0
G1Ihf3Am                           549.0      29.2   13.4   11.3   26.9        13         25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    5.0    25.0
sh    o --d   at t u k loatm            moo     _M bumos  
CM O=Mt m                         (at Oaot 1977 Mem)
197DW         I=      r    3W        13"0  1S73         1     55- 1111
km.   ea:1 PNauct            100.0  100.0  00.0  100.0  10.0        -0.3       7.5    -0.9      3.0
Alagur                       6.8   6.6    7.2    9.4    9.6         0.0      2.9      1.7      3.3
bnEUt                       25.5  20.3   21.4   20.8   21.0       -1.7       7.6    -1.6      3.2
Smrim                       67.7  73.1   71.4   69.8   69.4         3.7      8.1    -1.1      2.9
Ckm-uPtim                     82.9   8.9   83.2   81.5   74.5        0.0      6.4    -1.3       1.2
0m. jnve.1                    16.5  13.1   21.0   15.0  19.9       -11.6      19.6    -9.7      9.0
e - af!5of(kad I              15.0  25.5   22.8   25.8   28.5        2.5     15.1      0.8      5.0
IM   of Goo    dWS            14.4  27.4   27.0   22.4   23.0       -L7      19.3    -6.8       3.6
'_M Iblml Savqp               15.1   7.9   13.9    9.8   19.2       -7.7     18.5    -7.9      17.9
An a iofC
-*Se
Owtua pffm                             32.9    26.4
ISI_L &PWALtmm                  24.5   29.2
SIwCP   (+) W     kda  (-)              8.4   -2.8
CqmtaL  I    _=0"                       4.6     4.5
Vcaulp Fizibns                         -1.0     0.6
ISII 15590
GiP (kotb kA CZ)                         2.5      3.49
GrIP Eb Ca  im   th kM  (X)              0.9      1.82
Svz     _ Ca.miqti- (kthRd  A  (1)       1.5      1.9
I=                                       7.1      5.6
1hgl SrvzW   Ram                        07       0.76
7sX ,t E qmmc                            1.12     1.14
a/ Nme of gmd i pr            alumim in   a     pdm.
fR P  aa C             t eL
TE  Ptnm.



-25-
Wraf 6
" .t -    ~      m    _     a
b                               ommus                             us                 wr
MNdilmd       ita                3,485                         4.6      4.6     4.6      5.5     6.0    6.1
1,435                         3.8     3.8      3.8     3.8     3.8     3.8
JIada1wra  ONab                  366                          7.4     7.6      7.3     7.5     7.6    7.8
1eat.cbmxulam*                 1,259                          4.5     4.5      4.6     6.7     8.1     6.4
Otdu aab                         424                          5.2     4.7      5.1     5.1     5.0     5.0
_dinuMsm  1qiata                 3.390                         0        2.0      1.9    3.7      3.9     4.6
Food                             426                         -1.7     0.0      0.0     1.1     0.0     1.3
1  fa rad        Good            411                          0.0      1       2.4     3.4     3.6     3.8
- rolum0, on, O*dZ             2.07                           0.0     1.7      2.4     3.0     3.5     3.7
Odar 1_omi"  & a1t.1 GM&  s5                                  0.0     .9       2.4     4.8     5.2     5.9
:1= (1977-10o)
bPact Mdm  1                                                  119    1is      137      140    161      174
qivact 1dm lala 115                                                  1       132      143    15       165
Tam of       hd_                                              103     103     103    104    105        105
UVA
5/20/85



31FMa~     ,97lL5 (13S0
ypojulTKD
ACTIAL                                            rdA
At  mbpt at Gob 4             -211.3     Mg.  .03.7   -69l.  -519.9 -2,035   -3)L    -3.19.    537.    -M9.0               S"      US   1.M2   1,03        99   1.01
nomo d       *  £M6         I.3.   2432.9  2.6OI.2  2,1.9W    k=.2  3.37.3  5.'5   S,06.   %=A0.    4.3*39    4.35   3.316   6.27    7,014  16,3    30W
I      o aml     & M6      4%.5. -4.132.  -2.310.  -3,0.  -5,217.1 -5.033.  -4,32.0        4)67. A4.12.   -4A.Mg   4,36   -4.453  -%1.1    4,014   4,1*2 47.1G
rA  aco hum                  S194   -333.7  -579.4  -405.    -43.4 -3.32  154.  -2,332.   1.743.   -3.W6.    -2,05   -2.31  -2,29  -2.161  -2,33  -2.37
Ibt 1OmA'.                       3.6     32.5     IM.      75.      4.9      41.2    44.8    43.3      3.0       3.7       M3      M       117    in       M4    114
GumIt 3DtMoslm                .43.56    132. A  466.  -3.112.9 -1.3D4.2  -2,021.1     M .432 .34436.6 4,I3.    ,IU.M    -3.331  -1,2    1,901  -4.0    -1,01  -1.30
01Fmc ftbeeloomisse             "A.    -1.2       34.3   174.3   2326    170.3    14.2    35.4    14I.           45.1      125     M30             3       0      20D
lix Earn (me)                  UL37      12.0    526  1,512.   1.571.0  2,319  3.14.1  1,405.5  3.~.    215.MY    1,02    aim5             am       M      753    750
We   (wd36                     313.     14.3    353       364.    3Z.4  3I037   1.26.0   -M4.          44,    -337.        M        0        0       0       0      0
0.W  in lasrsn (-menium)    72.6  -411.0   -RL0   .431.   .91.7  -3,443A4   -M5.   1.34.5              Mt0,     .199        6       0        0       0       0      0
ba.eu.drnl 11   n               41.7    42.7   48L1   1,311.0  2,06.   3,439. 3  .7195    2.M573.         2.0.? 2119.5    3119.5 2,199.5 2,11.5 2,199.  2,9.32Z.1993r
plmpeve  M     d m  c0                  5        2                A        6        3        5        4         3.7       3,3    W.       3.0    2.       2.3    2.3
Ms  MMYM3  319o                                  M   Mm 3     33
05flda-I 0.32                        --  
OrwnsbaumurAn of AMdi MSX 3n 20    433   673  1,461  1.334   62   1.036  3.33   3.44   2,3
omkoo.=                            W0    13   23      31     13    -        -      -      -  
1lam1                             46    12    24     u5       7    .
Ow . dtUa1tUod                     14     1     2             6    .
Z35   42D  64   1,453  1.24          .. 2,83
lg11a i~Ml 010                   46    97    43      N5    79             ..     ...     .    20B
SM                      ~~~ ~~~ ~~~16   13   32  1  13    3'     30    2.       3      45
OdwhdtW1o                        14   13   30    19    21                              is.  .  0  73
.In   t =WM   4M0   4.34 4.44   "a   7.M1   9.03  32,56  13.3  34,6  14..
P.41k Of ONOMIa   UbA             73,75  3,59  3,44   4,03  4.82  4,1A   4,421  5I1  6,953  6.0
Qln%"                           2,407 2,332 2.05   1,907  1,03   3,31  L.416  I,21   1.447  1,4*0
SM                      13131141~~~~M      t  M1   In 13  33    i1       .      I 212 35
ML                              3      22    22     21     21     21    21    ..         9     39
ogbw ~ ~    ~    ~    20 2 ,15Z4-  1.03   1,13   1.WF   1,303  1,13             ..  2,39
Al41w Ia   1                          I513    1.612  2.418  3,343  3,10   3,007  3,963  53tlU  7,32
t13IumM  Mdi.U  D                  632   M3    7 I ,2         725    367    316     .      ..  3,43
Yivato SLm.1lb                     670   772 OM   1,169  2.13  4.693  B.13~ 6,615  ?.34   6,0
-mt   a M                      6   943  1,050  1.136  1,530  2,146  Z,33   2,913  Z,039  Z.412
175   160   291   IN3      M     913  1.423  1,747  1.103  1.079
lom    ofPaq.                  31    30    41    3        33    34      41    39    43       10
ft. hg.ma m  -w pM413 3cm  (Z) 7.2   7.8    6.7  10.6   129   1.7   33.   ..              34.3
lVfldal                          6.1   6.4    7.8  &8)    7.3    9.2    9.2
ramm                     a~~~~.3   6.9    8.6 W1.    13.    14.3   14.2
#.,  U lfqo     phb. Issa Lvwa.l 16    10.2    .6   8.1    73    4.1   i0.7  ..     7
UEfIdal                          19.4  14. 137.3  15.7   16.   14.6  19.1
PKV"                     w~~~0.    5.A   5.7   7.1    1.3    4.0    6.
I= mfp.Uc IND)                     3.3   3.6   3.1   3.5    3.3    3.3   4.3    4.5    LO0   1.6
IS  81sbjtnt 4ompMk8Ub d           3 .7   3.S   IA    1.1    3.0    1.6    2.6.9.                 1.4
SM  rotnimjbatl dift indmo   5.    1.9    1.4   1.9    1.4   1.2    LU0    t.              .       .7
IDA 3zvJ111 mm                     0.A   0.4    0.1   0.3    0.3    0.OA..                 . 
ML dlmbJm.w- posdmwmm                             -      
ML d29 mricmiem/mtal d-b srion 44in-
Immw1L           of P*1k "tamemfra
Ldudp.1   do  id.o 3 yoi                          39.0
reopLdo  ad. 10 Pass                       97.0
-       bI t  udida neat OM                       mm.
at Udf pml af 19t PM&  13
amh



- 27 -                         ANNM  It
Page 1 of 2
TU  STASS OF BAN  GRO   OPEAONS TI  cILE
A.  STAYEKM  OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 19B5)
Loan or                                                     US$ million
Credit     Ylacal                                    Aount (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower    Psrpome               Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed              326.2   22.9 1/      -
1832        1980    Chile      Water Supply          32.4    -           7.7
1902        1981    Chile      Agri. Credit           36.0    -         11.0
1927        1981    Chile      Highway Recon.        42.0    -           0.4
2297        1983    Chile      Highway Recon. II   128.0    -           97.2
2481        1983    Chile      Agri. Serv./Credit   56.0    -           56.0
2482        1983    Chile      Housing                80.0    -         60.7
2504        1985    Chile      Public Sector Mgt.   11.0    -           11.0
Total                                                711.6   22.9
of which has been repaid                           208.9    4.5
Total now outstanding                                502.7   18.4
Amount sold                       7.2
of which has been repaid       7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       502.7   18.4
Total undisbursed                                                      244.0
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.



- 28 -
AMNRI II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STAIRENT OF IFC INVSS3NTS (as at March 31, 1985)
Flecal                             Type of            Aount in US$ uilion
Year        ObLlmr Buaies.                           Loan   Equity    Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Minera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos       Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzl S.A.         Food products       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement               1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper       3.00     -        3.00
1970        Miners Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining       10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and Capital
1982        Inverchile               Markets             -     0.20      0.20
Total gross commitments                   51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Commitments now held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
Total Undisbursed                    20.00    1.88    21.88



- 29 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLENTAIY PROJECT DTAX SE
Section I: Tisetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:  one year
(b)  Project prepared by:  Vialidad, Ministry of Public Works
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  October 12, 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  October 30, L984
*e)  Completion of Negotiations:  May 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness:  September 13, 1985
Section II:. Speci  Bank IPlemetatiLon Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Ca)  Agreement not to change the amount nor composition of the agreed
road expenditure budget for 1986-1991 without prior approval of the
Bank (para. 66);
cb)  introduction of a gradual correction of the retail price of diesel,
taking into account the recommendations of the ongoing ECLA study
(para. 49);
(c)  preparation of an acceptable maintenance plan for secondary local
roads by December 31, 1986, including redefinition of the physical
and financial role of the municipalities (para. 62); and
(d)  the establishment and staffing, no later than August 15, 1985, of
p                    the national organization for training for the road subsector and
the preparation, by September 30, 1985, of a plan of action to
carry out the Training Program (para. 75).



[BRD 1430BRI
E R U
w
>                                                                                                                       o v
z
uico                           3r-                                                 A m e r I c a
M
Vft co                        REGION AGE N C                        Ar
SW A                                v
so                                                                 mmum cgu
DE
TAPAPACi'"
Pena I                               &LAW ROADS
AEOM  DEL LIBEAT                                                                              RAXWAVS
sr                                   -A=- CoprFOURS 1000in INTERVALS'
GENERAL BERNARDO I= M                                       4
;r                                                                                                                                       r#1
PJVEFtS
REGM                                                                                  SALM  LAKES
A                             CZ;P ICE FIELM
.EGI:
DE                       El                              MALLE
%j ANTOFAUSTA                                         36'  j                                                                                         INTERNATMAL AMORP
..!tT                                                                              'A                          46  PORTS TMROUG"4w
EXCEEDING 3M OW lrONS
PEFI YFM
CAPrTAL.
a   FEGONALL CAMALS
tj                                                2,                                                                                                   POKWWACIAL SOLVIDARM
'j,
APPVW IREGKPiAL BOUNDARM
wammoifta 90LINDAFNES
3r                       L   C-
(3
CL                                                          CL
sr-
z
DE
2V                                                    26.   LA AAAUCAMA
Choftni                               z
z
sr                                                            'K
LE                          ui
FIEGION
DE
sr
ATACAMA
REO" DE UAGALLAKES T
DE tA ANTARMA CHL&A
2r                                                    2r    REGM
LOS OLEAGOS
Lis
4P
CHILE
RE                                                                                  V45
C                                                                                                        Pr                                                                        "so



