Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6775
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1417-LBR)
May 22, 1987
Education Division
Westerr. Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distrinution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD SANK
Washngton. D.C. 2O'33
UA.
01k. d Dof ct WKGa
Oporotbw EvaiuMin
May 22, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report:  Liberia Third Education
Prolect (Loan 1417-LBR) 
Attached, for information, is a copy of.a report entitled
'Project Completion Reportt Liberia - Third Education Project (Loan 1417-
LBR)" prepared by the Western Africa Regional Office Under the modified
system for project performance auditing further evaluation of this project
by the Operations Evaluation Departuent has not been made.
C
Attacbment
Thi documutW htabu mW     dWbutia  d ma bed by nUCpbtS o* in tpPfofs co
of their ofkb dutbKlItsconWtot may n odwwinebodicksed vtho4tWodd Beak aurdeLa



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       African Development Bank
AITB      Agricultural and Industrial Trainidg Board
ASE       Administration of Secondary Education
DEF       Division of Educational Facilities
EEC       European Ecouomic Community
FAO       Food and'Agricultural Organization
FTI       Forestry Training Institute
ILO       International Labor Organization
MOE       Ministry of Education
MIPD      Manpower Planning Division
NCVTT     National Council for Vocational and Technical Training
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
STC       Science Technology Center
VTC       Vocational Training Center
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1417-LBR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface           .....................                            i
Bas ic Data Sheet ......     9              *                     ii
Evaluation Summary ....................................            v
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND 1.................................               I
Socio-Economic Setting .      ...........     .......... .          1
Educational Development Strategy                                    1
Project Identification and Processing                               2
Project Objectives and Content                                      2
II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION........... 0 090          *0                 3
Project Management 3...3
Project Design and Site Acquisition ........                        4
CGostruction                                                        4
Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles         ........                  5
Maintenance of Facilities                                           5
Technical Assistance and Fellowships 0...                           6
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ..       .      .......                7
Ca,pital Costsa .. . . . .   . . . . ..                             7
Disbursements ......8
Recurrent Costs                 .........                           8
IV.  OUTCOMES OF THE EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES   ..............             9
Overview              9....                   ..                    9
Strengthening Industrial Training ......0...........                9
Strengthening Forestry Training ...........11
Strengthening the Division of Educational
Facilities ....0....  ..11
Improving Secondary Education                                      12
V. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE ....         ..........                       13
VI.  COMPLIANCF WITH COVENANTS .......1........                         13



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
VII. LESSONS LEARNED         .....................................      14
Centralized Workshops .......................... .                14
Technical Assistance ....................                         14
Local Leadership ......       ................  ........ .        14
ANNEXES
1    Comparison of Forecast and Actual Overall Schedule of
Implementation
2    Comparison of Forecast and Actual Implementation - Design and
Construction Work
3    Comparison of Forecast and Actual Implementation - Furniture
and Equipment Procurement
4    Comparison of Forecast and Actual Implementation and Costs -
Technical Assistance (Specialist Services)
5A Comparison of Forecast and Actual Implementation and Costs -
Fellowship Program
5B Implementation of Technical Assistance Programs
6    Compliance with Loan Agreement Covenants
7 Comparison of Estimated and Actual Costs by Project Component -
Physical Facilities
8    Estimated and Actual Project Cos0t by Category and Source of Funds
9    Allocation of Loan Proceeds



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1417-LBR)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report on the Third Education
Project in Liberia, for wha.h  Loan  1417-LBR  for US$6.3 million was
approved on May 3, 1977 by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.
The loan was fully disbursed by December 31, 1983, with the exception
of U4$4,946.90, which was cancelled on May 15, 1984.
The report records and evaluates experience gained in the
implementation of the project, by comparing the performance of the
various project components with the objectives and targets specified
at appraisal. The report discusses in greater detail the project's
educational outcome in strengthening vocational and forestry training,
as these comprised the main thrust of the project.
The report is based on the findings of a completion mission
that visited Liberia in November  1984.   These findings were supple-
mented with a study of project files and interviews with Bank staff
who were involved in the design and preparation of the project. In
addition to the Staff Appraisal  R4p*rt,  the mission made use of the
President's Report (P-2044-LBR), the legal documents, and the working
papers.
While in the field, the mission visited all project sites and
held discussions with staff of the Project Implementation Unit, as
well as with senior Government officials who participated in project
implementation. Their full cooperation is acknowledged. The report
attempts to reflect the perspectives gained from the site visits and
interviews.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project perfor-
mance reporting,  this  PCR was  read  by  the  Operations Evaluation
Department COED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and its agencies for comments in
March 1987. No comments have been received.



- ii -
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal
Item                 Estimate          Revision       Actual
Total Project Cost
(US$ million)                 9.50               -             9.29
Underrun %                       -                 -              2%
Loan Amount (US$million)        6.30               -             6.30
Amount Disbursed                6.30               -             6.29 a/
Amount Cancelled                 -                 -              -
Date Physical Components
Completed                   06/30/81          12/11/81 c/    12/31/83 d/
Month Since Loan Signed         48                 -              78
Prop"rtion Completed by
Above Date (X)               100                 -              97 c/
Proportion of Time
Overrun ()                    -                                 49
Institutional Performance       -                               Satisfactory
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements of Bank Loan
(Calendar Years)
1977   1978   1979   1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million)         -      0.66   4.28   5.99  6.30   -      -      -
Actual (US$ million)   -      0.34   0.50   1.62  3.20  4.86  5.84  6.29 a/
Actual X of
Appraisal             -     52%    12%    27%   51%    -       -     -
a/ US$6,295,053 has been withdrawn.
b/ US$4,947 has been cancelled.
c/   By letter of December 11, 1981 the Bank agreed to extend the Closing
Date to December 31, 1983.
d/ Construction work at two project institutions has not been completed.



- iii -
Other Project Data
Item              Original    Revision               Actual
First Mention in
Files                       -           -                 09/05/75
Negotiations               03/07/7?       -                 03/07/77
Board Approval             05/03/77       -                 05/03/77
Loan Agreement Date        05/26/77       -                 05/26/77
Effective Date             07/13/77       -                 07/13/77
Closing Date               12/31/81    12/11/81 a/          12/31/83
Borrower                                                Republic of Liberia
Executing Agency                                       Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                    July - June
Follow-on Project Nama                               Fourth Education Project
Credit Number                                             1306-LBR
Amount (US$ million)                                        13.5
Credit Agreement Date                                     12/10/82
Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency (abbreviation):  Libeoria Dollar (L$)
During implementation of the project the US$ and L$ were equal in value.
a/   By letter dated December 11, 1981, the Bank agreed to extend the
Ciosing Date to December 31, 1983.



- iv -
MISSION DATA
Sent     Month/   No.of    No.of    Staff   Report
Mission        By        Year    Weeks   Persons   Weeks    Date
Pre-appraisal        IBRD     06/76     2.0       1        2.0      -
Appraisal            IBRD     08/76     2.5       4       10.0    04/08/77
Post-appraisal      IBRD      11/76     1.6       1        1.6      -
Sub-total                             6.1       6       13.6
Supervision Missions
1.  TED/ECN         IBRD      05/77    1.0     2          2.0     06/06/77 a/
2.  EGR             IBRD      07/77    1.0      1         1.0     16/12/77
3.  EGR/ECN         IBRD      02/78    0.8      2         1.6     05/19/78
4.  EGR              IBRD     08/78    0.6      1         0.6    08/16/78 a/
5.  EGR/ECN         IBRD      10/78    0.5      2         1.0     12/14/78
6.  EGR              IBRD     01/79    1.2      1         1.2     04/05/79 a/
7.  ARC/TED;ECN     IBRD      08/79    1.4      3         4.2     10/19/79
.8.  ARC/TED/ECN     IBRD      12/79    0.6     3          1.8     01/29/80 a/
9. TED/ECN           IBRD     03/80    1.2      2         2.4     05/21/80
10. ARC/ECN         IBRD      07/80    1.4     2          2.8     10/03/80
11. ARC/ECN         IBRD      10/80    1.0     2          2.0     11/05/80 a/
12. ARC/TED/ECN     IBRD   01-02/81   1.4      3          4.2     04/24/81
13. ARC/ECN         IBRD      10/81    0.8     2          1.6     12/30/81
14. ARC/TED         IBRD      03/82    1.8     2          3.6     04/27/81
15. ARC/EDC/ECN     IBRD      10/82    0.6     3          1.8     11/11/82 a/
16. EDC             IBRD      11/82    1.0      1         1.0     03/21/83
17. ECN             IBRD      07/83    0.4      1         0.4     07/21/83
18. ARC/EDC         IBRD  )  10/83    0.8      2          1.6     12/09/83
Sub-total                 11/83   7_.5  _35a        34.8
Completion Mission
1.  ARC/EDC         IBRD      11/84    2.0     2          4.0
Total                           -S.6    43         52.4
Key:  EGR - Civil Engineer; ARC - Architect; TED - Technical Educator;
EDC - General Educator; ECN = Economist.
/7 Back-to-Office Report
ARC/EGR    TED    EDC    ECK    Total
No. of Staff by field of
profession                  14       5      4       12      35
ito. of Staff in X of total
missions                    39      17      11      33     100



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1417-LBR)R ,
EVALUATION SUMOARY
Introduction
This project was identified and prepared concurrently with the
Second Education Project (Loan 1266T-LBR) with assistance from the ILO and
FAO. Both projects were appraised in 1976, within six months of each
other, and the Third Project consisted mainly of components which had not
been sufficiently prepared by the appraisal of the earlier project (paras.
1.07-1.08). A loan of US$6.3 million equivalent was approved in May 1977
to finance the foreign exchange component of a project estimated to cost
US$9.5 million and to be completed by June 1981. The project was closed on
December 23, 1983, two years after the original dato envisaged.
Obiectives and Project Conteat
The Third Education Project formed a part of the educational
development strategy outlined in the National Development Plan of 1976-84,
which noted unequal access to education, poor quality education, manpower
shortages in certain key fields and weak educational administration as the
chief shortcomings of the education system (paras. 1.04-1.06).
Project objectives aimed at expanding or improvings industrial
training, forestry training, the quality of scientific and technical
secondary education, and school facilities planning and construction. The
project financed civil works,  furniturs,  equipment,  vehicles  and a re-
latively large  amount  of  technical  assistance  tot    (a)  establish an
Agricultural and Industrial Training Board (AITB--to oversee and coordinate
the training system, monitor standards and policy and administor public
sector training agencies), construct a Vocational Training Cenw.. (VTC) and
strengthen the capacity for manpower planning: (b) establish a Forestry
Training Instit'tte (FTI); (c) construct four Science and Technology Centers
(STCs) to service secondary schools .n a given catcement area, improve the
teachers college and upgrade the quality of socondary school adminis-
trators; and (d) strengthen the Division of Educational Facilities (DEP) in
the Ministry of Education (para. 1.09). The project Was to be implemented
by the same unit in the Ministry of Education that had been established for
the previous two projects, augmented by the appoint&ient of an additional
Deputy Project Director (paras. 2.01-2.02).



- vi -
Im2lementat'.on ExRerience
Despite the deteriorating economic and social conditions toward
the end of the project cycle, the project wss basically implemented as
designed. Physical facilities were completed and are in use, except for
the STCs. Total area constructed exceeded Appraisal expectations by 192.
Reductions to the substantial technical assistance component (from 357 to
188 staff months specialists And from 996 to 530 staff months fellowships)
accounted for the minor cost overrun of 2% overall (paras. 3.01-3.02 and
Annex 5b).    Delays  in  site  acquisition  and  construction,  the latter
attributable to escalating unrest and shortages of building materials and
local Ifunding, caused the two year extension of the closing date and the
49% overall  time  overrun  (paras.  2.07-2.09).    Project  management was
generally satisfactory, as were the design, procurement and site develop-
ment and supervision services provided by the DEF, which was also streng-
thened under the project (para. 2.02-2.04).
The technical assistance component was not implemented as planned.
Most specialist services, 'xcept that for industrial training, were drasti-
cally reduced. Despite an increase of 74X above appraisal estimates for
the AITB and the VTC, the impact of the services provided was hampered bys
poor synchronization between expert arrival and counterpart availability,
conflicts within the expert team and poor utilization of experts' talents.
The fellowship component was also reduced, and many of the fellows have not
returned to their posts (paras. 2.14-2.19 and Annexes 4 and 5).
Results
Achievement of project objectives has been mixed. Substantial
progress was made in strengthening industrial and forestry training and in
improving some aspects of manpower planning and school construction. The
recently established AITB, while not yet acquiring administrative control
over all publicly-fundAd training centers, has acquired sufficient leader-
ship capability to monitor industrial training standards and policies. The
FTI has exceeded appraisal expectations, serving as a unique example of
regional cooperation in the training of senior forestry staff from Liberia,
Sierra Leone, Guinea and Gambia (paras. 4.02-4.05 and 4.12-4.13). The
manpower unit in the Ministry of Planning was upgraded and given responsi-
bility for managing data in three areas: education and training; health,
housing and social welfare; and manpower and employment. The strengthening
of the educational facilities unit in the Ministry of Education has reduced
school construction costs by reducing reliance or.. private architectural and
engineering consultants (paras. 4.11 and 4.14).
The project has been least successful in improving educational
quality and expanding enrollments, especially in science education at the
secondary level.   While  the  Vocational  Training Center was encountering
prcolems of underenrollment, high staff turnover and high recurrent costs,
only one of the four Science and Technology Centers was being used at all.
Moreoverp although scheduled to be completed with funds from the Fourth
Education Project, (Cr. 1306-LBR), ultimate utilization of the facilities



- vii -
is questionable given the Government's decision to abandon the original
strategy of busing students to the centers (paras. 4.06-4.10 and 4.16-
4.20).
Sustainability
The sustainability of the activities supported by the project
varies  considerablys    from  the  FTI,  which  successfully  services the
forestry training needs of Liberia and several neighboring countries; to
the VTC, which is operating, but under severe constraints; to the STCs,
which have little chance of ever becoming viable science education centers.
For those institutions c..urrently in trouble, absence of adequate and
sustained financial support would seem to be at the root of the problem.
Not only are the recurrent costs of the VTC unjustifiably highs given its
current underutilization, but the plan to institute an industrial levy to
cover part of the recurrent  budget  has not been =.plemented (para. 4.10).
High recurrent costs of operating a reliable bus service and maintaining
adequate infrastructure (roads, electricity and water supply), which would
permit utilization of the STCs as originally intended, weighted heavily in
the Government's vacillating commitment to the concept of centralized work-
shops and laboratories  (pars..  4.18-4.19).    Moreover, while the project
strengthened institutional capabilities in a number of areas, policy
decisions necessary to eustain these achievements--such as endowing the DEF
with the financial independence and authority required for undertaking
specialized jobs and maintenance activities--have not yet occurred (para.
4.15).
Findings and Lessons
The project provides an interesting comentary on the relationship
between project scope and implementation  capacity.    On the one hand, the
fact that a project with such diverse and unrelated objectives and compo-
nents was successfully implemented during a period of economic decline
without major cost and time overruns, is indicative of the appropriateness
of overall project size and a credit to careful project preparation which
had divided activities between this project and it8 predecessor. On the
other hand, less careful attention was given to the Borrower's potential
for effectively utilizing the ambitious technical assistance provisions,
which were substantially altered during implementation. The project pro-
vides Insights into the importance of designing a well-focused, clearly
defined and properly timed technical assistance program that incorporates
flexibility in its administrative design (pares. 2.17 and 7.03).
The importance of local leadership in establishing effective
institutions is illustrated by the FTI component. Technical support for
this component, either through Bank supervision missions or project related
technical assistance actually provided, was minimal. Rather, high quality
local faculty members were largely responsible for the success of this
institution (par"s. 4.12-4.13 and 7.04).



- viii -
The major lesson to merge concerns the difficulty of promoting
innovative educational  strategies.    Effective  utilization  of  the cen-
tralized science und technology workshops depended on busing students to
the centers and on continued Government comitment to the additional admin-
Istrative and recurrent cost Implications Inherent In the scheme. It would
appear that alternative strategios for achieving quality improvemerts and
the potential impact of the proposed changes were insufficiently addressed
during the otherwise adequate preparation phase, and sustained Government
commitment was ultimately uot forthcoming. The experience in Liberia with
shared school facilities, moreover, supports the generally poor record
elsewhere in Africa (paras. 4.18-4.20 and 7.02).1/
1/   See Project Audit Memoranda  for  the following projects:  Nigeria II,
Mauritius I and Mali I, which were all prepared during the same time
as the Liberia III project (1970-1976).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1417-LBR)
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Settint
1.01      The Third Education Project In Liberia was identified and
prepared almost concurrently with the Second Education Project. It was
appraised in August 1976, six montha after the Second Project was
appraised. Thus, both projects supported different elements of a
well-defined national strategy for the development of education in Liberia,
and were implemented under similar socio-economic conditions.
1.02      At the time of project generation, the Liberian economy had a
dual nature, comprising a relatively prosperous forelgn enclave sector and
an underdeveloped subsistence agricultural sector. The foreign enclave
see:tor comprised mainly of iron ore, mines, rubber plantations, and foreign
concessions, was the primary national source of export earnings,
contributing almost half of the GDP (about 42X). Yet, the enclave provided
employment for only about 8% of the population.
1.03      At the other extreme, traditional agriculture supported 702 of
the population, but contributed less than 25% of the GDP. Most of the
rural population lived below the subsistence level; their per capita income
(about $100 per *nnum) was well below the national average of about US$410
in 1975. In contrast, the urban elite, comprising about 4X of the
population, had per capita income levels of over US$3,000. Mainly engaged
in professional and managerial occupations, they also earned about 60% of
the national income.
Educational Development Stritegy
1.04      In the educational system there were similar disparities between
urban and rural areas. The capital city of Monrovia, with only 15% of the
national population, accounted for 34% of lower secondary, and 552 of upper
secondary enrollments. The primary school enrollment ratio in Monrovia was
over 702, compared to an average of 40X for the rest of the country.
Schools in Monrovia were also better financed, about US$70 per student,
compared to US$32 outside the city. Liberia's literacy rate remains low
(about 302), particularly in the rural areas.
1.05      Educational standards at all levels of the system were low.
Public expenditure for education, about 13% of the total Government
expenditure, representing about 2.5% of GNP, was one of the lowest in
Africa. Classrooms were extremely crowded with double and triple shifts
widespread, and the schools lacked adequate equipment and supplies.
1.06      The educational development strategy In the National Development
Plan of 1976-84 was designed to correct these deficiencies. It aimed at
improving the quality of education at all levels and redressing
geographical inequities in educational opportunities, especially in rural
areas.   Specifically, the Plan called for:  (a) improving the quality of
education at the secondary level by emphasizing science, technical and
practical subjects; (b) reducing geographlcal inequities by increasing the
number of places in rural areas (community schools); (c) establishing a



-2-
program of vocational and technical training; (d) training forestry staff;
(e) strengthening educational administration and planning at central and
county levels; and (f) providing increased opportunities fir adult
literacy.
Project Identification and Processing
1.07      Three missions assisted in the generation of project items for
the Second and Third Education Projects, which, as mentioned in para 1.01,
were identified and prepared concurrently. In April 1974 a Bank
reconnaissance mission and the Government identified programs concerned
with primary education (community schools), primary teacher training, and
technical assistance for strengthening the management of the education
system and project management. An ILO team shortly thereafter, recommended
Bank financing of a vocational training center. An FAO team similarly
proposed that the Bank finance an institute for training forest rangers.
The Liberian Government also expressed interest in extending Bank
assistance for further diversification of secondary schools, started under
the First Education Project.
1.08      A Bank appraisal mission for the Second Education Project
included only those components which were at an advanced stage of
preparation for financing. The components included community schools,
related training of primary school teachers, and strengthening of
educational planning and administration. The other items (forestry
training, vocational training, science and technology centers) were
deferred for a follow-up project and subsequently became the core of the
Third Education Project. Financing for the design work preparation and
architectural studies for the Forestry Institute and Vocational Training
Center was included in the Second Education Project.
Project Objectives and Content
1.09      The Third Education Project had four principal objectives:
(a)  Strengthening the industrial training system by providing
buildings, furniture, equipment, expert services (9 manyears),
and fellowships (23 manyears) for the establishment of an
Agricultural Industrial Training Board and a Vocational Training
Center;
(b)  Strengthening forestry training by providing buildings,
furniture, equipment, expert services (2 manyears) and
fellowships (7 manyears);
(c)  Improving the quality of secondary education, particularly in
science and technology by providing buildings, furniture,
equipment, vehicles, expert services (17 manyears) and
fellowships (36 manyears); and
(d)  Strengthening the Division of Educational Facilities in tae
Ministry of Education by providing equipment, vehicles, 2
manyears of technical assistance, and 7 manyears of fellowships.



-3-
1.10      The Loan Agreement for US$6.3 million was signed on May 26, 1977.
The project became effective on July 13, 1977. The original Closing Date,
December 31, 1981, was extended to December 31, 1983 because of
construction delays. None of the project items, except technical
assistance and fellowship, was modified during implementation. However, a
feasibility study to determine the cost of busing pupils from neighboring
small villages to attend the centralized Science and Technology Centers was
later dropped. Chapter IV discusses the project's educational outcomes.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
2.01      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established within the
Ministry of Education (MOE), to implement the first two education projects
(Cr. 305-LBR and Loan 1266T-LBR), was responsible for implementing the
Third Education Project. The PIU was also responsible for monitoring
implementation progress and coordinating communication with other
ministries and departments of the Government, and with external aid
agencies, including the African Development Bank (ADB) and the Bank.
Additionally, the PIU handled procurement and contract administration of
furniture and equipment, as well as financial and accounting matters.
2.02      To handle the additional workload of the Third Education Project,
the PIU was strengthened by adding a third Deputy Project Director. The
staff performed satisfactorily during the entire implementation period.
Shortly after loan effectiveness, the first appointed Project Director
submitted his resignation (February 1978) in order to accept a Unesco
appointment, and was replaced by the Senior Deputy Director. The PIU
worked well with the senior officials concerned with the ongoing projects.
2.03      Implementation progress was affected considerably by the
country's deteriorating economy, particularly toward the end of the project
when budgetary constraints became severe. Despite this situation,
implementation generally was satisfactory. A comparison of forecast and
actual overall schedule of implementation is given in Annex 1.
2.04      To enable the MOE to become independent of the need for
architectural consultants, the Government established the Division of
Educational Facilities (DEF) within MOE's Bureau of Planning and Research.
This Division was created by merging two small units--one in the PIU and
the other in the Planning Bureau. DEFts responsibility is to prepare
architectural designs and tender documents for educational buildings
required by the MOE, and also for handling projects financed by the Bank
and the ADB. In the latter instances DEF reported directly to the Project
Director. Furthermore, DEF maintained an inventory of existing educational
facilities, and their physical condition and maintenance requirements. To
strengthen DEF, the project financed equipment, vehicles, technical
assistance, and fellowships.



- 4-
Project Design andjSite Acquisition
2.05      Desi.gn   The design work, prepared by an expatriate firm
appointed by the Government, began in August 1977 and was completed by the
end of 1978. The design and tender documents for thle remaining project
components were prepared by DEF between August 1977 and February 1979. The
tender procedures, site supervision, and final accounts of the civil works
for all components were DEF's responsibility.  The awarding of contracts
for all components was behind six to 20 months from the appraisal forecast
mainly because of problems of site acquisition and completing tender
documents (because of inadequate staff). Annex 2 provides a comparison of
the forecast and actual design work completion. The consultants' and DEF's
performance was generally satisfactory.
2.06      The total area built was about 19% larger than planned at
appraisal. The difference was mainly due to additional teaching areas
(requested by the Government in April 1978) and larger circulation areas
for covered walkways between buildings (justified as weather protection).
The buildings are functional, econonical and simply designed. Most have
been in operation for several years and provide acceptable year-round
comfort in both teaching and dormitory areas. The completion mission
observed, however, that in some areas the water supply and functioning of
the plumbing system have been major problems. The main power supply was
not always connected to the buildings and, if available, power was often
provided for only a short period in the evening.
2.07      Site acauisition.  At appraisal it was stated that the sites for
all project components had been selected and were, or about to be, in the
Government's possession. Final acquisition of most sites, however,
including the AITB/VTC, the FTI and two of the STCs (Saniquelle and
Robertsport), delayed project implementation.
Construction
2.08      After prequalification of contractors, tendering procedures
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and the award of
contracts, construction began in January 1979, about eight months behind
appraisal estimates. The contractor performance at each of the six
building sites varied. For example, the contract for the AITB/VTC was
terminated in November 1979 because the contractor performed
unsatisfactorily; the contract was reawarded to two other firms, which
began work in December 1979. The buildings were in use from September
1981, about two years behind appraisal estimates. The contractor for the
AITB had not fully completed his work when the completion mission was in
Liberia. The contractor for both the Saniquelle STC and the new secondary
school (financed by the Government) began work on the site in December
1979. The contractor stopped his work in 1981 after completing about 90%
of construction for the STC, because the Government was unable to make
payment due to budget constraints. The completion mission was informed
that the remaining work on the Saniquelle STC could be finished in about
three months. Construction work at Robertaport STC started in June 1981,
over three years behind the appraisal estimate. The work was completed in
January 1984. The long construction period (31 months) was due to the lack
of building materials, and slow work performance by the contractor, who



- 5 -
experienced difficulties in receiving his payment claims from the
Government due to financial problems.
2.09      Delays in construction at the remaining three STC sites varied
between two to three years compared with appraisal estimates. This was
attributable largely to: (a) delays in acquisition of sites; (b) late
completion of tender documents; (c) managerial problems; (d) shortages of
building materials; (e) difficult access to building sites during the rainy
season; (f) financial constraints, especially of local counterpart funds;
(g) lengthy delays by some contractors in repairing defective work; and
(h) political and social unrest in the country. A detailed Implementation
status is shown in Annex 2.
2.10      The day-to-day supervision of construction work was carried out
by DEF's technical staff and was generally adequate.
Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles
2.11      The PIU prepared all furniture and equipment lists and tender
documents with the assistance of goveramental agencies concerned, project
institutions and the ILO. The PIU also supervised the procurement and
distribution of goods for the project Institutions. The bulk of the
furniture was procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), while some
of the equipment was procured through ICB, except some vehicles 'Locally
purchased. Furniture and equipment were submitted for tendering in bid
packages, and the contracts were awarded between June 1978 and March 1981.
2.12      The timing for delivery of furniture and equipment did not
coincide with completion of the civil works contracts. Consequently, since
the Government did not have storage facilities, the furniture and equipment
delivered to the sites often were placed in uncompleted buildings. The
quality and quantity of furniture and equipment were not always
satisfactory. For instance, some of the project institutions lacked
essential equipment, and at least 20X of the delivered equipment was of
such poor quality that it soon became unusable. In other cases the
equipment could not be used either because it becam rusty, spare parts
were unavailable, or the suppliers did not have representatives in the
country to demonstrate use of the new equipment. For example, many of the
machine tools for the VTC, provided by one supplier, were not in line with
the specifications; however, only a few of the machines were taken back
after the Government asked the supplier to replace them. Few, or no books,
were supplied to the libraries. The vehicles specified at appraisal were
procured; however, the buses for the four STCs were not procured, as the
Government decided not to bus students to the centers as originally
intended. Some of the procured furniture was not designed for what it was
used for, and its quality and sturdiness were sub-standard, A detailed
implementation status is given In Annex 3.
Maintenance of Facilities
2.13      The maintenance of public buildings is uually the responsibility
of the Ministry of Works, but as its maintenance budget is inadequate, MOE
set up a section for repairs. Its capability, however, is still
inadequate. As lack of maintenance is increasingly a problem due to



- 6 -
insufficient funds, and since maintenance of project institutions was
included as one of DEF's principal tasks when it was established
(para 2.04), the Bank should consider further strengthening DEF to
undertake this responsibility more effectively.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
2.14      A relatively large amount of technical assistance (16 specialists
for a total of 357 manmonths) was provided under the project. This was
reduced substantially at the Government's request to 183 man-months
(Annex 4). Similarly, regarding fellowships: of the 996 manmonths provided
at appraisal, only 530 manmonths were actually utilized.
2.15      The degree of specialist utilization varied among agencies.  For
example, in the area of industrial training the requirements for these
services doubled for the VTC and remained high for the AITB. In contrast,
the need for technical specialists in forestry training was eliminated by
the Director of FTI, since he found his own staff to be sufficiently
qualified.
2.16      Provision was also made for financing eight experienced teachers
to assist in establishing the STCs. The positions were advertised in
1981-82, but candidates found to be qualified were unavailable at the
prescribed salary levels. However, this in itself did not affect the
operation of the STCs as the buildings are not yet completed (para 4.18).
The assignment of the school mapping specialist was terminated by Unesco,
after six months of a 12-month contract was completed, which F it the
specialist on a new assignment in Gambia, apparently without consulting the
Liberian Government.
2.17      The bulk of the specialist services were used for strengthening
industrial training. Expert services recruited through the ILO were
increased from the appraisal estimate (105 manmonths for five specialists)
to 152 manmonths for eight specialists. The impact of their services is
uncertain for several reasons. First, the experts arrived well ahead of
time, much before their counterparts could be recruited and before the
AITB/VTC started operations; consequently, extension of their services was
required to allow continuation of programs in relatively new functional
areas to be undertaken jointly with the counterparts. Second, much of the
experts' time was devoted to performing routine tasks, such as equipment
procurement, and also they were reluctant to train the counterparts whom
they had helped to recruit. Third, conflicts arose between the members of
the ILO team.
2.18      The fellowships were well utilized by all institutions except
AITB/VTC, even though the AITB/VTC continuously requested specialist
services. The number of fellowships for VTC was reduced, mainly because
the EEC provided 108 manmonths of training for 12 fellows at the ILO's
Turin center. Wine fellows went to Egypt for a six-month instructor
training course financed by the Arab Fund; however, many of them returned
to private industry and were unavailable to the VTC. The duration of
training for the six AITB staff members was reduced from 24 months to three
months, because the staff did not have adequate academic backgrounds to



- 7 -
benefit from longer courses. The Fourth Education Project tried to correct
these deficiencies by allocating four more fellowships of 24 months each.
2.19      Nine fellows, instead of the appraisal estimate of 13, from
Tubman Teachers College received advanced training. Several returned with
Masters' degrees; one with a Doctorate; and another with a certificate.
Two fellows returned for doctoral programs. In the FTI, five fellowships
were allocated, but as all faculty members possessed either a Masters
degree or an advanced diploma, the allocation was converted to study tours
for seven staff members, one of whom retarned with a Masters degree.  In
DEF five fellowships were awarded; three fellows have returned to Liberia,
one having acquired two Masters degrees. The remaining two are pursuing
higher level courses at Government expense.
TII. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Capital Costs
3.01      A comparison of appraisal estimates with actual costs by
component is shown in Table 1 below; details are found in Annexes 4, 5, 7
and 8. The total estimated project cost including contingencies was US$9.5
million at appraisal. The Bank Loan of US$6.3 million was expected to
cover the foreign exchange component, representing 66% of total project
cost. As implemented, the final project cost was US$9.3 million, about 2%
lower than the appraisal estimate. The Bank loan financed 68% of the final
costs, while the Government covered 32%.
3.02      Final costs were roughly in line with appraisal estimates.
Compared with appraisal estimates, including contingencies, only the civil
works category had cost overruns, amounting to about US$0.15. The other
categories had cost underruns, of which the furniture component had the
highest savings (about 22% below the appraisal estimate). Comparison of
estimated and actual project costs by component is given in Annex 8 and
summarized below. The reason for lower project costs, even after the
implementation period was lengthened by two years, is attributable mainly
to reduction of the project scope (e.g., cancellation of technical
assistance for the STCs and specialist services for the FTI).



- 8 -
Table 1
Comparison of Estimated and Actual Cost by Components
(in US$ million, including contingencies)
Difference
Component                  Appraisal   Actual        in %
1. (a+b) Agricultural and Industrial
Training Board (AITB) and
Vocational Training
Center (VTC)                        3.39      3.26         -4
(c)   Manpower Planning
Division (MPD)                      0.16      0.14        -12
Sub-total I                     3.55       3.40         -4
2.       Forestry Training
Institute (FTI)                     1.73      1.86         +7
3. (a)   Four Science Technology
Centers (STC)                       3.22      3.03         -6
(b)   Administration of Secondary
Education (ASE)                     0.33      0.34          -
(c)   Strengthening Teacher
Training (ST:7)                     0.39      0.39
Sub-total III                    3.94      3.76         -=
4.       Division of Educational
Facilities (DEF) and Project
Implementation Unit (PIU)           0.28      0.27
Total                            9.50      9.29         -2
3.03      Disbursements.  The original Closing Date of December 31, 1981,
was extended to December 31, 1983. The total loan amount disbursed was
US$6,295,053. The balance of US$4,947 was cancelled oaf May 15, 1984. As
shown in Annex 8, the Government has not fully paid its counterpart
contributions, and owes contractors about US$320,000 and the ILO US$81,150.
Original allocations and actual disbursements by category are shown in
Annex 9.
3.04      Recurrent Costs.  The project, when fully developed in 1985, is
estimated to increase the Government's recurrent expenditures by
US$1,240,000, or about 2% of estimated budgetary expenditures for education
in 1985.



- 9 -
IV. OUTCOMES CF THE EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Overview
4.01      The principal objectives of the Third Education Project were:
(a) strengthening of the industrial training system; (b) improving forestry
training, (c) consolidating the planning of educational facilities; and
(d) improving the quality of science and technology instruction in
secondary schools (para 1.09).
4.02      The outcomes of these educational objectives vary.  The project
developed two viable institutions in forestry and industrial training. FTI
is performing exceptionally well and can be cited as a unique example of
regional cooperation in training. AITB has acquired sufficient leadership
capability for monitoring industrial training standards and policies. On
the other hand, the project was unable to promote a sound program for
improving science instruction in secondary schools, partly because of the
failure of the STCs (paras 4.18-4.20). Project outcomes concerning each of
the four educational objectives are discussed below.
Strengthening Industrial Training
4.03      The project aimed at strengthening the industrial training system
through: (a) assisting an existing Agricultural and Industrial Training
Board; (b) establishing a new Vocational Training Center in Monrovia; and
(c) strengthening the Manpower Planning Division of the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs. Each of these programs was implemented, but
with varying results.
4.04      Agricultural and Industrial Training Board.  The Bank assisted
the established AITB to: (a) develop and oversee agricultural and
industrial training systems in Liberia; (b) monitor training standards and
policies; and (c) administer the training centers funded by the public
sector. Provisions were made for construction, equipment and furniture.
Specialists were provided in four areas for 77 manmonths. Six of the
faculty members have received advanced training (para 2.19).
4.05      Objectives (a) and (b) above have largely been met.  In addition,
AITB is functioning as a Secretariat of the National Council for Vocational
and Technical Training (NCVTT), a ,esponsibility which until August 1981
was carried out by the Manpower Planning Division of the Ministry of
Planning. The third objective could not be attained, mainly because many
of the sectoral ministries preferred to retain administrative control of
their own training centers until the AITB acquires adequate capabilities in
professional leadership, especially in areas of quality control, evaluation
and monitoring, guidance and supervision, and coordination.
4.06      Vocational Training Center.  The total input of specialist
services more than doubled from the appraisal estimates, from 33 manmonths
to 77 manmonths (Annex 4). The Center was unable to attain its full
potential, for three main reasons: changes in the instructional program,
under-enrollment, and staff turnover. These factors are discussed below.



- 10 -
4.07      Modified instructions program.  The VTC was expected to offer
three types of instructional programs: regular pre-employment training;
modular courses for apprenticeship training; and upgrading of industrial
workers through ad hoc refresher courses. So far, none of these programs
has been offered. The appraisal mission proposed that the one-year basic
institutional training be followed with a modular concept of apprenticeship
training, whereby the trainees would alternate between three months of
training at the center, followed by nine months of plant training for a
three-year period. The VTC management found this concept impractical to
implement, and developed a modified program comprising one year of basic
institutional training at the center, followed by two years of in-plant
training.
4.08      Under-enrollment.  At the time of the completion mission, the VTC
enrolled about 120 students per year, compared to the appraisal target of
700. Furthermore, dropout rates for the one-year training program are
high, ranging between 10% and 15% during the past three years. Placement
of trainees for apprenticeship training programs is also poor. Of those
who qualified to serve as apprentices in industries, at least one-third had
not been placed at the time of the completion mission. For example, out of
87 trainees who qualified in 1983, only 46 were placed in industries. None
of these trainees had yet been contacted by the faculty at the time of the
completion mission. Three reasons for this were cited: the proposal for
creating a new inspectorate for the apprentices was turned down by the
Ministry 1/; the bus for visits broke down frequently; and finally,
approved allocations for fuel were never released by the Ministry.
4.09      Staff turnover.  The VTC has experienced extensive staff turnover
during the past two years. The appraisal mission estimated that the VTC
would require 17 professional staff. While all these positions have been
filled, many of the incumbents are recent replacements for more experienced
staff, some of whom were previously sponsored for training under the
project. The staff cite three factors for the frequent turnovers. First,
decisionmaking is largely retained by the parent ministry and not by the
VTC. Second, within the center there appears to be poor communication
between staff and management on the day-to-day operations. Third, more
responsibility should be delegated to the heads of the trade sections of
the VTC to enable them to schedule, supervise and manage their own
workshops.
4.10      Recurrent costs.  The recurrent costs of the VTC have doubled,
from the appraisal estimate of US$200,000 to about US$400,000. VTC
management estimates that, when fully operational, the center will require
about US$550,000 annually, of which about 80% will be allocated for the
salaries of 65 staff members, whose services to date are greatly
underutilized. An industrial levy, proposed under the project to cover
part of the recurrent costs, has not yet been implemented. The completion
l/   It is worth noting that neither the members of the appraisal mission
nor the completion mission consider that a full-fledged inspectorate
is required for visiting the apprentices.



- 11 -
mission believes that unless the VTC facilities are utilized more
intensively, the high recurrent costs cannot be justified.
4.11      Manpower Planning Division.  As a result of assistance received
under the project, the Manpower Planning Division's scope of work has
broadened. Upgraded as a social planning division, it comprises three
units: one deals with education and training; another with health, housing
and social welfare; and the third with manpower and employment. Recently,
the Manpower and Employment Unit undertook several important programs,
including a national survey on ewpioyment. This unit is also gathering
data on private sector employmen:, derived mainly from payroll records and
the alien registration records of the Ministry of Labor.
Strengthening Forestry Training
4.12      The FTI has exceeded its original expectations by providing a
unique example of cooperation among the developing countries within a
region. The FTI offers both pre- and in-service courses. During project
appraisal, the pre-service courses were designed as a two-year program.
This has been modified realistically to offer three dLstinct types of
courses: (a) a general diploma course to prepare rangers for supervising
all technical areas of forestry; (b) an advanced diploma course for those
rangers who have gained substantial practical experience in forestry
operations and are prepared for more senior positions and responsibilities;
and (c) a certificate-level course in specialized areas of forestry
management. Out of 131 rangers graduating between 1978 and 1984, 119 were
graduated with general diplomas, three with advanced diplomas, and nine
with certificates. The FTI reported to the completion mission that all the
graduates are now employed with the forestry services of developing
countries.
4.13      Shorter in-service training courses were designed for forestry
workers in the private sector. Between 1977 and 1984, about 231 workers
were trained, averaging 38 workers per year. In addition, in 1980, 93
workers of timber companies pprticipated in a newly designed updating
course in such areas as saw repair, mechanics, chainsawing, and fruit
surveying. A tracer study of traitlees, conducied by the FTI staff,
indicates that all trainees have been employed. Moreover, the employers
have expressed satisfaction with the quality of preparation and skill level
of the trainees.
Strengthening the Division of Educational Facilities
4.14      The DEF is fully operational.  The outcome of merging two units
of the Ministry of Education concerned with architectural and educational
facilities planning into a new division has, on the whole, been positive,
The DEF designs and supervises all locally-financed construction programs
of the MOE as well as externally financed programs of the World Bank, the
EEC and the ADB. The new division has achieved cost savings with respect
to architectural and engineering services, previously provided by private
consulting firms, dnd has provided opportunities for Liberians to
familiarize themselves with consulting, contract administration and related
skills.



- 12 -
4.15      Two factors, however, constrain the performance of DEF.  First,
it has not yet been endowed with the financial independence required for
undertaking specialized jobs; as a result, some of the DEP staff continue
to give their allegiance to PIU, mainly because they still draw their
salaries from PIU, which at times jeopardizes their quality control
function. Secondly, DEF was also expected to handle the maintenance and
renovation of existing facilities in addition to designing new facilities.
As renovation and maintenance are presently handled by the Department of
"Public Works, this may result in a duplication of effort in the skilled
labor force.
Improving Secondary Education
4.16      The project was also designed to improve secondary school
facilities, particularly those for teaching science and technology. For
this purpose, the project provided for: (a) the establishment of four
Science and Technology Centers; (b) expansion of secondary school teacher
training at the Tubman Teachers College of the University of Liberia; and
(c) the training of secondary school administrators.
4.17      The project has not fuilly met these objectives.  None of the four
Science and Technology Centers is operational; the capacity of the Teachers
College, although enhanced, is underutilized; the fellowships provided to
train educational administrators were not fully utilized. The extent to
which project objectives have been met is discussed below.
4.18      Science and Technology Centers.  At the time of the completion
mission, due to the lack of counterpart funds, the facilities at two STCs
were only 80-90% completed. The equipment had not been delivered in full
in any of the STCs, nor had the water supply and electricity been
connected. Except for one STC (Buchanan), which is partly operational, the
STCs are not being used. Unless put to use in the immediate future, the
facilities are vulnerable to rapid deterioration and vandalism. The
facilities are expected to be completed with funds from the Fourth
Education Project (Cr. 1306-LBR).
4.19      Toward the end of project implementation the Government decided
to abandon the original strategy of busing students to these central
training facilities, as it had become obvious that busing students was
unrealistic because of the high recurrent costs of operating a reliable
transport service, as well as the lack of good roads. Instead, the
students are now expected to walk to the STCs from their schools. The
completion mission doubts, however, whether there would be a sufficient
number of students within the catchment area of each STC. In order to make
full use of the STCs, the Government plans to use some of the rooms as
laboratories and classrooms.
4.20      In hindsight, the project design could have anticipated these
obstacles. Instead of centralized workshops, where students were expected
to be either bused or to walk, simple and inexpensive laboratories should
have been provided, in at least the larger schools (para 7.02).
4.21      Teachers College.  The project financed equipment, vehicles and
fellowships for the Tubman Teachers College at the University of Liberia.



- 13 -
Nine of the 13 fellowship6 were utilized. However, the college is
under-utilized; it hae the capacity for 350 students, but only 266 were
enrolled at .,he time of the completion mission. This situation has
improved recently, partly as a result of assistance under the Fourth
Education Project (Cr. 1'06-LBR) which has enabled the college to offer
in-service programs (for over 1,000 teachers in 1984 alone) and special
cou-ses for school directors and administrators.
4.22      Secondary school administrators.  The project financed seven
fellowships for a total of 12 manyears, and a school mapping specialist for
12 manmonths. Five of the seven fellowships were utilized. Unesco
reassigned the school mapping expert, apparently without consulting the
Government. Office equipment was also provided.
V. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
5.01      Eighteen supervision visits were carried out during the
implementation period, for a total of 34.8 staffweeks. Initially,
supervision was carried out by the Bank's Regional Office in Abidjan, and
later, from headquarters. Economists and architects dominated the
supervision work, although a technical educator was included during the
sixth supervision mission. The general educator came very late - during
the 15th supervision mission. Many of the conceptual problems concerning
the Science and Technology Centers could, perhaps, have been resolved
earlier if general educators had participated sooner in project
supervision.
5.02      In each of the institutions visited by the completion mission,
PIU staff expressed their appreciation for the quality of supervision
provided by Bank missions. There was general receptivity for the technical
advice and for the educational knowledge and experience transferred.
Nevertheless, record demonstrates that during many of the supervision
missions, the Bank staff were forced to spread their efforts too thinly
between sector work, appraisal and supervision. Also, the project had too
many components, some of which were under the jurisdiction of agencies
other than the Ministry of Education (e.g. Manpower Board, the Ministry of
Youth and Sports, and the University of Liberia). As a result, sufficient
attention was not given to some of the smaller components, and sites in
remote areas often were not visited. For example, a garage in Buchanan
City was constructed even though the proposal for busing was dropped and
there was no access road to the garage.
VI. COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
6.01      The Government generally was in compliance with the Loan
Agreement covenants (Annex 6), except one pertaining to budgetary
provisions. Under Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement, the Government
agreed to make adequate budgetary provisions for the project institutions.
Due to financial constraints, the Government's allocations were inadequate
and often late, particularly for the VTC.



- 14 -
VII. LESSONS LEARNED
7.01      The principal lessons learned from implementation of this project
are summarized below under three headings: (a) centralized workshops,
(b) technical assistance, ane (c) quality of local leadership.
7.02      Centralized workshops.  The first lesson concerns the process of
introducing change and innovations in developing countries. As noted
"arlier, the objective of introducing centralized instruction in science
and technology proved to be overly ambitious and therefore required careful
assessment of possible implications of the proposed changes -- e.g., on
enrollment, busing, cost-sharing and management -- and the probability of
their success. It appears that the STC component was not adequately
prepared; the local implementation staff had little understanding of its
purposes; and the resources provided were inadequate to attain the stated
objectives. A thorough assessment of proposed changes, including a review
of alternative strategies for attaining them is a prerequisite for bringing
about change and reform.
7.03      Technical assistance.  The impact of a tech.nical assistance
Drogram is largely determined by proper determination of timing,
eomposition, and scope of work of the technical assistance team. The
effectiveness of the technical team was affected, partly by a drastic
modification of its composition, early arrival of the experts and poor
utilization of fellowships. Fellowships in certain areas, such as
agricultural education, could not be awarded, because of a paucity of
qualified candidates.
7.04      Local leadership.  The quality of local leadership is the key
element in bringing about inst:..utional development.  The experience of the
FTI demonstrates this point. The Bank's input, in terms of software, was
extremely limited. For example, the FTI component was supervised by a
forestry expert only once. The provision of an expert was deleted, and the
fellowships were modified to comprise short study tours. Yet, the FTI has
been able to establish itself as an outstanding training institution,
partly because of the high quality of leadership exercised by its faculty.
The right choices of faculty members were critical factors in bringing
about changes.



LUM
EDUCATON Ul PROJEC
Cow|mSkd^ -Loom* 44747E
conpabson d Foecs and Acludl Ovta Smock  dl Lm:X o
CRYWLv     47   1       9n                        Me         in           1m    4m    1            9
CALBMRM         It"S        197         1979         1960         WT 196246                            496
QUlM    12 23 4  t |23|4  I  2|314   1121314  *121344   323                                 4 1  2-13  4
CDA WOUL (SW Aw )                                                  l  l      l 3            l   l       1316
0 - Foo                         Datof
IaFmcs                   W ur - If      4FF +9   
b-Actukal                       - 
_~~~1  II               
* - Fuecos                                      -                                                                                  n
o - Furoacos
b - Ackual
b-Actuol                             |  |||-l4l
*OS  S                    -  m            --  -       -n
- Actual                                                       o -  -  -  -a  -= -; -6                                 -
* - FON)CCrA    m           um mm- mm-
b - Act-ual-                                     -    -               --    
b - Actual                                     j|  Z goalss M             e 1111 M   a aim          t1t _  
NO& y Cawfatulion at AJVSC a SWu    Ms nool cwnSeted
SwaK FwOfF                                                        YUl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d3as*-26873



- 16 -
uRo   ~~~~~MNX 2
LIBERIA                              -NE  
THID EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LUR
PROJCT COMPLETION MPON?
COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL nPLRMHATA?IO
1)EIW AND CON3TRUMTON 13WM
Forecast        Contractual        Actual            Delays
Activities                   FroiTm---"o        *7=-      TO     Fro-m --To        (inWSiths)
I (a + b) AITB/VTC
Design tender documents/
tendering/contract awards    01/77    07/78                 -     08/77   12/78            6
Construction period           10/78    09/79    02/79    07/80   11/78         - 1/       -
12/79   04/81 -        19
12/79       - 2/       -
II         UYTI 
Design/tender documents/
tendering/contract awards    01/77    03/78        -        _     08/77   02/79           11
Construction period           07/78    06/79    02/79    07/80   08/79   03/81            21
III (a)    Four STC
i.     Buchannan
Design/tender documentsl
tendering/contract awards    01/77    02/78        -        -     08/77   02/79           12
Construction period           04/78    12/78    03/79    04/80   03/79   09/81            33
ii.    Greenville
Design/tender documents/
tendering/contract awards    01/77    02/78        -        -     08/79   02/79           12
Construction period           04/78    12/78    04/79    05/80   04/79   12/80            24
iii.   Sanniguelle
Design/tender documents/
tendering/contract awards      01/77    02/78       -        -     08/77   02/79           12
Construction period           04/78    12/78    08/79    10/80   04/79       -
iv.    Robertsport
Design/tender documents/
tendering/contract awards    01/77    02/78        -        -     08/77   02/79           12
Construction period           04/78    12/78    04/80    10/82   06/81   01/84 3/         60
Notess 1/ The originally awarded contractor's contract was terminated at the end of 1979, since his
work performance did not progress in accordance with his contract. Consequently, two other
contractors were appointed for completion of the work.
2/ All facilities are in use, but one of the two last appointed contractors has not completed
all his vork (such as window screens and site work) as he claims that the Government has not
yet paid his last application. However, the remaining
work could be completed in about three months.
3/ Since the Government has not paid Contractor's claims for the construction work at the
Sanniquelle and Robertsport Centers the work had been stopped at Sanniquelle and the completed
buildings at Robertsport have not being turned over to NOE. The conttactor estimates that
about three months would be required to complete Sanniquelle from the tim his previous claim
has been paid.
Stunce: DEF



- 17 -
ANNEX 3
LIBRA
THIRD EDUCATIONP PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
OOMPARISON OF FOR8CAST AND ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION
PUITRENDEQIMENT PROCUREMET
Forecast     Aetual     Delays
Activities                    From        To         From        TO         (in months)
I (a + b) AITB/VTC
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards          07/77      01/78      07/78       03/79           14
Manufacturing/delivery period      02/78      10/79      04/79       10/83           48
1 (c)      NPD
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards          07/77      01/78      07/78      01/80            19
Manufacturing/delivery period      02/78      10/79      05/80       06/80            8
II        ULI!
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards         04/77       01/78      07/79      03/81            39
Manufacturing/delivery period      07/78      07/79      02/82       06/83           48
III (a)    Four STC
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards          06/77      01/78      07/79      03/81            39
Mtnufacturing/delivery period      02/78      01/79      02/82       09/83           57
III (b)    Admin. of S.E.
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards          06/77      01/78      11/77      03/79            15
Manufacturing/delivery period      02/78      01/79      06/80       06/81           30
III (c)    Strength T.T.
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards          06/77      01/78      11/77      03/79            15
Manufacturing/delivery period      06/77      01/78      11/77       03/79           30
IV         DEF/PIU
Preparation of tender lists/
tendering/contract awards          06/77      01/78      11/77      06/78             6
Manufacturing/delivery period      02/78      01/79      07/79       06/83           54
Source: PIU



LIBIRA,
SHIRD UCATIOI PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LI
PROJECT Co!ZLEW  mlw
R OF FRWAST AND  CUAL  MLE        =00 AND CORST
TKWRIIICIAL *BZWAI ==- PUIAI5W   ERcS
Man-Macthsost in USM G
ForecastrAgreed                                 Forecast    Actual               DelaDi (l0c. conttn.)    Dlff
Activities                  Apr.        Revision      Actual       From        To       P           To    (in months)  Forecast      Actual    "t[
I (a) AMTE
AppreiET-eship/In-Plant            24 (1)       20 (1)        25 (1)     01/78      12/79      05/80     05/82        30          -            -       -
Trade Testing/Standard            24 (1)        20 (1)        24 (1)     01/78      12/79     05/80      04/82        30     _       _
Nbdular Training/Curriculum
Development                      24 (1)        12 (1)        12 (1)     01/78      12/79     06/80      05/81       18 i s                            _
Training Supervisor                  -          20 (1)        16 (1)        -         -       01/81      04/82         -          -            -
Sub-total I (a)                  7!T37         7TT1!7        777 74:T-                                                                     Y
I (b) VTC
TechnTIl Adviser l/               30 (1)        30 (1)        37 (1)     01/78      06/80     08/78      08/81        14          -            _        _
Procurement Specialist             3 (1)         3 (1)         3 (1)     09/77      11/77     12/78      02/79
-          -       06/79      07/79                  21           -           -         -
Machanical Specialist                -          18 (1)        12 (1)                          07/80      07/81        -           -            _        _
Electrical Specialist                -          18 (1)        23 (1)        -         -       07/80      05/82        -           -            -        -
Sub-total I (b)                  33 (7         WT69  (4)           1u8.                                                                    T57
Sub-total I (a + b)               105 (5)       141 (8)       152 (2)                                                             587.4    1.020.0    + 74
II  UYII
AdvTsor to Director                24 (1)         -             -        07. /8     06/80        -         -          -         133.8          -        -
III (a) Four STC
Eight SpecLallts (each for
24 months) to assist the
centers in organizing
teaching program and training  192 (8)           -             -        01/79      12/80       -          -         -           389.1         -        -
III (b) Admin. of S.E.
School Mapping Specialist         12 (1)        12 (1)         6 (1)     01/78      12/78     07/78      12/78        -           66.9        43.0    - 35
Sub-total III (a + b)           204.(9)        12 (1)         6 (1)                                                             45:          x "0
IV DEf/PIU
ArcEtrtect Specialist to
assist DEF in organizing
design                           24 (1)        24 (1)        24 (1)     04/77      03/79     06/77      05/79        2          133.8      134.5        _
Accountaont to assist PIU
in organizing the account
section 2/                        -             6 (1)         6 (1)         -        -       07/78      12/78        -             -         28.6     -
Sub-tota_  IV                    24 _1)        30_ _2__________ ____  _ _                                                                                   X
Total I - IV                   357 (16)      183 (11)      188 (11)                                                           1.3I1.0    1.226.1      -6
Notes: 1)  Served as Chief Technical Adviser for both Institutes.
2) The accountant's contract (original for the Second Education Project) was extented six months and paid for
by this project.
Source:    Pru/Bank 6roup Staff



LIBRIA
.THuRD EDUCATIro FRt35. - WAN 1417-LBR
PR*JKCT COMPLETION RPORT
COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL IMEFATION AND COSTS
Man-Months                                                           Delays       Cost in USS 's)
Forecast      ARree                        Forecast             Actual                        11 (inci. eont.)     Diff.
Activities                  xp]r        ReiIIion     Actual       Fr-         To      Froo       To        months)    Forecast    Actual    In %
I (a) AITB)
Training in Job Analysis and
Occupational Standards            24 (1)         3 (1)       3 (1)     09/77      08/79     10/82      12/82       40                        -        -
Trade Testing/Certification          24 (1)        3 (1)       3 (1)     09/77      08/79     10/82      12/82        40          -            -        -
hpprenticeship/In-Plant -
Training                          24 (1)         3 (1)       3 (1)     09/77      08/79     01/83      03/83       43           _            _        _
Vocational Guidance                 24 (1)         3 (1)       3 (1)     09/77      08/79     01/83      03/83       43           -            _        _
Programs & Instructional
Material Development              48 (2)         6 (2)       3 (1)     09/77      08/79     01/83      03/83       43           _            _        _
Administration & Planning            24 (1)        3 (1)       3 (1)     09/77      08/79      01/83     03/83        43          -            -        -
Director of AITM                       -             -          -            -         -         -         -          -           -
Sub-total I (a)                  i 7r57 24                 I) 180)                         148.7   -:                                         i    -  r
I (b) VTC
Training in Administration
sand management                   12 (1)         6 (2)         -       09/77      08/78        -         -          -            -           -        -
Training in Mecbanics                24 (1)        3 (1)         -       09/79      08/79        -                    -            -           -        -
Training in Electrical               24 (1)        3 (1)         -       09/77      08/79        -         -          -            -           -        -
Training In Construction             24 (1)        3 (1)         -        09/77     08/79        -         -          _            *           _        -
Training in Automatic                24 (1)          -           -        09/77     08/79        -         -          -            -           -        -
Sub-total I (b)                  iWt37          155            _-                                                                            -        _
I (c) MPD
Economics Manpower Planning          1S (1)          -           -        09/77     l/78         -         -          -             -          -
sEcnomics Manpoper Planning          22 (1)       24 (1)      24 (1)      09/77     08/79      01/82     12/83        54            _          _         _
Education/umen Resource
Development                        22 (1)         -            -        09/77     06/79        -         -          -            _           _        _
Biucat on/Dgma Resource
Developmnet                         9 (1)          -           _        09/78     05/79        -         -          -            _           _        _
Statistics/Survey Technics            9 (1)         -            _       09/78    0/79          -         -          -            -           -        _
Statistics/econailcs                 22 (1)       22 (1)      22 (1)     09/77      06/79     09/80      06/82        36           -           _        .
Sub-oter Daolopat/Adaln.             21 1)       24 (1)      24 (1)      09/77     05/79      09/81     08/83        51
sub-total I (C)                  17arT7         70 M)l    70 tl)                                                               BYlI.                   4   +
Sub-total I (a 4 b 4 c)         396 (19)      109 (16)      88 (9)                                                            350.3        192.6    - 43 1 "'
opI



COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL IHENIAI50 AND COSTS
FELLOOWSHP FiUWAM
Man-Months                                                       Delays     Cost in USSOO's)
Forecast     ARreed                     Forecast            Actual            ( n       (t7ii. cant.)       Diff.
Activities                ARpr.      R-iision    Actual       Fro_-      To      Fro       To       months)   Forecast   Actual   in %
IIUN_I 
Forestry Training Techniques      24 (1)       18 (1)    18 (1)    09/77    08/79    09/80    03/82            31         -           _        _
Forestry Training Techniques      24 (1)        7 (1)    12 (1)    09/78    08/80    01/81    12/81           16          -           -        -
Forestry Tralning Techniques        -           7 (1)     U (1)         -         -     01/81    11/81         -          -                    -
Sub-professional Instructors      36 (2)         -           -       07/78     12/79       -        -          -          -           -        -
Study Tours                                     2 (2)      2 (2)        -        -      01/82    02/82         -          -           -        -
Study Tours                         -2 (2)                 2 (2)        -        -      10/80    11/80         -          -           -        -
Sub-total II                        4        36 (7)     47                                                                        7          -
II  (b) Admn of S.E.
Director Sec. Education            4 (1)        -            -       01/78    04/78        -        -          -          -           -
Asst.Director Sec.Education       20 (1)       20 (1)    20 (1)    01/78       08/79    08/79    04/81        20
Asst.Te*cbncal Edcation           48 (2)       48 (2)    48 (2)    09/77       08/79     08/79    07/81       23
Asst. Science Education           24 (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/77    08/79        08/79    07/81       23
Science Supervisors               48 (2)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/77       08/79    08/79     07/81       23
Sub-total III (b)    14 4           7       IT(7)  fi6T                                                                           116       Ts)
In (c) Strength ?.T.
Training in Audio-visual                                                                                                                             
RPairs                           3 (1)        7 (1)      7 (1)    10/78      12/78    09/80    03/81        27          -           _        _
Agricultural Education            48 (2)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/77       08/79     01/82    12/83       52
Sence  Education                  48 (2)        -           -        09/77     08/79      -         -          -
Guidance                          48 (2)       24 (1)    24 (1)    02/78       01/80     08/81    07/83       43
English Education                 24 (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    02/78       01/80    09/80    08/82        32
Mathetics Education               24 (1)       36 (1)    27 (1)    02/78       01/80    01/80    03/82        27
Curricuhli Developeent            24 (1)       12 (1)    12 (1)    09/78    08/80    09/81    08/82           24
Evaluation                        24 (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/78       08/80    09/81     08/83       36
Beon  Economics                   24 (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/78    08/80    01/82        12/83       40          -           _        _
Matbettics Education              21 (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/78    05/80        01/78    12/79        -          -           -        _
Sub-total III (c)             288 (W1       iM9TJ   3.90 t9)                                                          :
Sub-total III (b + c)         432 (20)      3.15 (14)  306 (14)                                                      382.34        83.2    + 26
IV 'W
Orientation for Director
(Senior Architect)              6  (1)        2 (1)      2 (1)    07/78      12/78    03/78     04/78                    -          -
Educational Architect            12  (1)       17 (1)      5 (1)    09/77    08/78       11/77    03/78
12 (1)                         09/80    08/81                  36           -         _
Building Inspector               18  (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/77       02/79    01/80     12/82       46           -          _
Building Cost Estimater          18  (1)       24 (1)    24 (1)    09/77       02/79    09/80    08/82        42           -          _
Construction Supervisor          30 11)        24 (1)    24 (1)    09/77    02/80    09/80    08/82           30           -          -        -
Subtotal IV                      a%M9  (s)    91 (5}                                                                     7476  91.0c   t
Total I - IV                    996 (48)    5S1 (42)  530 (35)                                                           880.0      841.1        4
Sources PIU/Bank Group Staff



- 21 -
AnnE 31
MIUD EDICAIION PROJICT - IOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPV=TIO  REPONT
Image.ntation of Technical Assistance Ptograms
Appraisal               Agreed               Actual
Objectives/                          Forecast                Revision                Use
Institutions                        No      MM,             1o    14M             No  164
A. Industrial Trainint
(1) Agricultural
Industrial Training Board
specialists            3      72              4     72               4   77
Fellowships            7     168              8      24              6   16
(Li) Vocational Traintng Center
Specialists            2      33              4     69               4   75
ellowships             5     108              5     1S               a    -
(iLL) mnpower Planning
Specialists            -       -              _       -              a 
Fellowships            7     120              3      70              3   70
B. Forestry Tra nin
Specialists            1      24                      -
lallonships            4      84               7     36              7  45
C. Physical Facllities
(DEIVP/U)
Specialists            1      24              2     30               2   30
Fellowships            5      84              S      91              5   91
D. &Scondar Education
(I)   Scool Administration
Specialists            1      12              1     12               1    6
Fellowships            7     144              5    Ul6               5  116
(ii) Teacber Training
Specialists            -                          -  a 
Felleoships           13     288              9   199                9  190
(iLL) Sienee & Teehmology
Specialists            8     192              8    192
Fellowships            -       -              -       -
Total   Specialists            16     357              19    375             1  168
Fellombip             48     996             42    551              35  530



LA
THIRD EDUCAIION PROJBCT - LWAN 1417-L8R
PROJBCT C(M(PON REPORT
Covenant Statust  M - met                            Compliance with Credit/Loan Agreement Covenants
N - not met                                     1. Major Covenants
P - pending
Section No. of
Credit/Loan                        Covenant                       Status                      Comments                        Action Taken or Required
Agreement
3.01(a)         Borrower to provide as promptly as needed the        N     Project completion is likely to be delayed by   This issue is being taken
resources required for the project.                        the insufficiency of counterpart funds.          up with the Government.
3.02            Borrower to maintain and allocate required           H
budget to the Division of Educational
Facilities.
3.04            Borrower to train instructors for VTC.               M     Limited training was accomplished from                                         n
external donor sources such as EEC.
4.02(b)         Borrower to have project accounts audited            M
for each fiscal year.
4.03(a)         Borrower to provide new classrooms and other         N     Construction of facilities in Greenville
facilities for the STCs in Greenville by the               completed.  Construction work for school in
end or 1978 and Sanniquellie by the end of                 Sanniquellie stopped because the contractor
1979.                                                      has not yet been paid. Completion would take
at least one year.
4.03(b)         Borrower to train science technology and home        N     Serious attempts for training such teachers
economics teachers and teacher-librarians to               were not yet made.
staff the STCs.
4.04            Borrower to make adequate and timely budgetary       N     Due to Government's budgetary constraints,
allocations for operations of project                      financial allocations were inadequate and
institv-4ons.                                              often tardy.
4.0S            Borrower to ensure that the forestry training        M     Enrollment is low, staff resources                                       t O
institute will be operated appropriately and               underutilized and some essential teaching                               
provided with all the funds required.                      equipment is lacking.
0%



Covenant Status: M - met                            Compliance with Credit/Loan Agreement Covenants
N - not met                                     I. Other Covenants
P - pending
Section No. of
Credit/Loan                        Covenant                       Status                      Comsents                        Action Taken or Required
Agreement
3.03(a)         Borrower to employ qualified technical              M     Experienced mixed. See main report.
assistance personnel.
3.03(b)         Borrower to award fellowsbips to qualified          M     All trained fellows except one has returned
candidates.                                               and taken up their duties- Two are pursuing
advanced studies.
3.03(c)         Fellowship recipients to serve at least two         M
years in positions for which they have been
trained.
3.05            Borrower to make available eight staff houses       M
to the Forestry Training lastitute.
3.08            Borrower to acquire all sites.                      M
4.08(c,d)       Borrower to establish format by June 30, 1979       M      Government is reconsidering its decision for   A program to utilize STC
to record .'ta on cost efficiency of busing               not providing busing the schools.                facilities with assistance
students to two STCs.                                                                                      from USIS us underway.
4.04            Borrower to make adequate budgetary provision       M      Except for the STCs the institutions are
for project institutions.                                 operational, but have a more limited budget
than required due to Goveronent's financial
constraints.
0



P103(w 0wm r      tooi  4 N
Dor   umzu  60 ACRa can15 Or - V    AL nmml
(Cost toas 8  0  tntaidtq caat1  dbsaa)
Croos Art" It Se, ft.                   Civil tbr6s                 Profmt.e.Z serttes           _6          8t                                               __ _    _____
-itereae                           Oitf*ttmc                        DtfU fe                        DtCff_m                        elf                            0Lft
O_t6             d       3j9jj  Acluel         Lu %       1        Actual          in      Aiotuslt  A_tual       lan       A M ail Acttl    to *         A          Actut       tc %        rtmal Actual    tn a
AlUt91C                   26,475  64,600      * 18        1,672.9  1,262.1        - 24       39.4      26.0 S     - 29       138.0      92.3    - 33           707.8   719.6    * 10       2,558.1  2,M2.2      - iS
WD                         -         -          -           -         -- -                                          -          6.5        3.1    - 48          4S.0    n.3    - Si            51.5    26.4      - 33
gm                        33,1O   39,400      * 19        1,135.9   1.AA.6        * 27       26.3      31.3         4        I tOB.1    87.8     - 19         258.7   221.3    . 4         1,S29.0 1,795.0    * 17
rw  SCs                   62,00    75,S0      * n2       2,109.2  2,362.9        *1U         26.5      52.6        * 100     182.3      163.3    - t0         514.8   509.8    - 12        2,832.6  3,029.6    * 0
Atatratt  ef t..           -                    -                                             -                               13.1        -       -            115.0   U4.&.0    - 2         128.9   14.0    - U2
sU *sctNo of S.T.                               -           -                -                     -                     -          -         -                          W2e.7    *0.6  - 29  128.7    90.6     - 29
srl                                                                                                                                                               I -  -  -  -  77.2    21.3  72  7.2    n.3    - 72
705.1                  14M.65S  178.720     * 20         4.9.0  S.069.6  /    * 1          92.0    119          * 22       44S.0      366.5       23       I.0tl.  1.699.3      - 6       7.3.0  7227.3       - U
I  Of _ch tuvat        ON" cotracter U9$319.300. C
.        ntllP78S    eep Staft.
I!



- 25 -
ANNEX 8
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - WAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
(in USS million incluains contingencies)
Appraisal           % of            Actual             % of  Diff.
Local   Foreigln  Total   Total   Local   Foreien   Total   Total   in %
1 (a)  Civil Work                2.22     2.70     4.92       52    2.53     2.54     5.07       55      +3
1 (b)  Professional Services    0.08      0.01     0.09        1    0.05     0.06     0.11        1       -
2 (a)  Furniture                 0.21     0.24     0.45        5    0.12     0.23     0.35        4     -22
2 (')  Equipment                 0.52     1.33     1.85       19    0.11     1.59     1.70       18      -8
3      Technical Assistance      0.19     1.12     1.31       14    0.18     1.04     1.22       13      -7
4      Fellowships                -       0.88     0.88        9    0.01     0.83      0.84       9      -4
Total             3.22      6.28     9.50     100    3.00      6.29     9.29     100       -2
in %                34       W       -I _               W      __
SOURCE OF PROJECT FUNDS
(in US$ million including continencies)
Appraisal                                       Actual
Bank Group                                  Bank Group                Government
% of      Govern-   Total                % of           Not           Total
Loan  of Total     ment      Cost    Loan       of Total  Paid  Paid  Total   Cost
1 (a)  Civil Works     2.70      55        2.22      4.92  2.54           50      2.21  0.32   2.53   5.07
1 (b) Prof. Services  0.05       55        0.04      0.09  0.06           55      0.05    -    0.05   0.11
2 (a)  Furniture       0.29      65        0.15      0.45  0.23           66      0.12     -   0.12   0.35
2 (b)  Equipment       1.45      78        0.40      1.85  1.59           93      0.11     -   0.11   1.70
3 Technical
Assistance        1.11     85         0.21      1.31  1.04           85      0.10  0.08   0.18   1.22
4  Fellowships         0.70      80        0.18      0.88  0.83           99      0.01      -  0.01   0.84
) in US$:      6.30                3.20      9.50  6.29  a/               2.60  0.40   3.00   9.29
Total )
i  )in %  :         66                  34       100    68                     27     5      32    100
a/ From the original loan of US$6,300,0O0, a total amount of US$6,295,053 has been withdrawn and US$4,947
cancelled in May 15, 1984
Source: PIU/Bank Group Staff



- 26 -
ANNEX 9
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROEC  COMPMLETO  REPOtT
ALLCATION OP WOAN PROCEEDS
(US Dollars)
Allocation
at             Actual                   % of Expenditures
A"praisal       Disbursement            Original          Actual
1. Civil Works and
Professional Fees            2.400.000       2.603.529         55%                      51%
2. Furniture and Equipment        1.300.000       1.817.055         (100% of Foreign)
(Expenditures   )        89%
(or 65% of Local)
(procured Expdt.)
3.  Teebniale  Assistance           900.000       1.042.219         85%                      85%
4. Pellovships                      800.000         832.250         100% of Foreign          99%
5.  Unallocated                     900.000            -                                      -
Total                      6.300.000       6.295.053  1/
1/   U8$4.496,90 was not disbursed



27 -
ANNEX 10
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Forestry Training Institute: Enrollment Updating of Workers 1980-84
SubJect         1980-81       1981-82      1982-83     1983-84
Sealing              --             1            2           1
Chain Saw             9             0            4           15
Mechanics              1            1            7            5
Saw Doctoring         4             1            8           9
Survey                3             1            9          11
Total              17             4           30          41



- 28 -
-ANNEX 11
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Educational Outcomes:
Tubman Teachers College: Projection of Student Enrollment
and Requirement of Faculty Members (1982-1990)
1982*   1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Student enrollment   521      573   630   395   324   356   392   413   479
Required faculty       42      20    23    24    26    29    32    35    38
* Actual number of full-time faculty.
Based on current student/faculty ratio 1982-1987.



- 29 -
ANNEX 12
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Forestry Training Institute: Number of Students
Graduating from Diploma Courses (1978-84)
YEAR        COURSE       SIERRA LEONE    LIBERIA    GUINEA    TOTAL
1978       Ordinary            5           11          --       16
Diploma
1979       Ordinary           10           13          --       23
Diploma
1980       Ordinary            5           14          --       19
Diploma
1981       Ordinary           --           19          --       19
Diploma
1982       Ordinary           --           18          --       18
Diploma
1983       Ordinary
Diploma
Advance            3            --         --         3
Diploma
1984       Certificate        -             3           6        9
Totals                        28           87           6      131



- 30 -
ANNEX 13
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Forestry Training Tnstitute: Enrollment in
D4Lploma Courses (1983-84)
YZAR      COURSE       GAMBIA   GUINEA   SIERRA LEONE   LIBERIA   TOTAL
1983   First Year         2       10           --          --        12
1983   Second Year       --       --            4           18       22
1984   First Year         2       --           10           16       28
1984   Second Year        2        4           --           8        14



- 31 -
ANNEX 14
LIBERIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1417-LBR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Forestry Training Institute: Enrollment
in Short Courses during 1977-84
YEAR          LIBERIA          SIERRA LEONE        GUINEA
1977-78            30              13   --             43
1978-79             4              5
1979-80            36              14   --             50
1980-81            46              18   --             65
1981-82            --                --                --
1982-83            27              5    --             34
1983-84            20              9    10             39
Totals          163             65    10            240



