Report No 1 358a-LBR                                                           FILE  COPY
Liberia: Appraisal of a
Third Education Project
April 8, 1977
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the pertormance ot their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = L $ 1.00
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 square foot (sq. ft.) = 0.092 square meter
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ACRONYMS USED
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .. . ..  a  .............................. .   i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION . ..........................................              1
II.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING ........ . . .  ............................... .  3
A.    Socio-Economic Conditions and Plans ................            3
B.   Manpower and Training Requirements ........ . .......            3
C.   Education Sector and Development Strategy .........    5
D.   Role of the Bank ......        ............................    7
III.    THE PROJECT ............................................               7
A. Summary .................. -.7
B.   Project Composition .............. .  ........... ...... .       8
C.   Project Costs and Financing .......................    12
IV.    IMPLEMENTATION . ...................... ........ . ........    15
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................    17
A.   Assurances ......................*           .............      17
B.   Condition .......................                               18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Liberia in August 1976. The mission consisted of Messrs. R. Romain (general
educator), J. Coates (economist), W. Cooper (technical educator) and
G. Hadjicostas (civil engineer).
I This document has a  tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco
of their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.       Comparative Education Indicators
2.       Project Content of First and Second and Proposed Third
Education Projects and their Relationship to Government's
Education Sector Objectives
3.       Manpower in Liberia
Table 1 - Modern Sector Employment Matrix (Occupation by
Industry for 1974)
Table 2 - Expatriate Employment in Liberia by Occupation
and Country of Origin, 1974
Table 3 - Projected Modern Sector Employment Matrix
(Occupation by Industry) for 1982
Table 4 - Projected Modern Sector Employment in 1982, by Sector
Table 5 - Average Annual Demand for Labor over the period 1974-1982
Table 6 - Demand for Skilled Workers in the Trades and Supervisory
Personnel
Table 7 - Projection of Monrovia's Labor Force Requirements by
Sector 1974-1982
Table 8 - Employment Requirements by Occupation in Monrovia,
1974-1982
4.       The Education System:  Its Financing and Development
Table 1 - Projection of Secondary School Teacher Requirements
Table 2 - Budgeted Expenditures on Education and Training
by the Government of Liberia
Table 3 - Structural Analysis of the Budget of the Ministry
of Education
Chart 1 - Ministry of Education Organizational Structure
Chart 2 - Structure of the School System 1975
Chart 3 - 1974 School Enrollment Pyramid (by grade)
5.       Teacher Training Requirements to be met by Special Government
Programs
6 (a)    Cost Summary
6 (b)  ( Contingency Allowances
( Assumed Price Increases
6 (c)    IBRD Financing by Major Category of Expenditure
7.       Summary of Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
8.       Implementation Schedule
9.       Schedule of Disbursements
10.       Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure
MAP       IBRD 12498



ACRONYMS USED
ADB                        - African Development Bank
AITB                       - Agricultural and Industrial Training Board,
Monrovia
EDF                        - European Development Fund
FTI                        - Forestry Training Institute, Bomi Hills
LAMCO                      - Liberian-American Mining Company
LSVTC                      - Liberian-Swedish Vocational Training Center,
Yekepa
NCVTET                     - National Council for Vocational and Technical
Education and Training
PIU                        - Project Implementation Unit, Ministry of Education
STC                        - Science/Technology Center (attached to secondary
schools)
USAID                      - United States Agency for International Development
VTC                        - Vocational Training Center, Monrovia






LIBERIA
BASIC DATA
General
Land area:                                                    111,400 km2
Population (1975 Est.)                                        1,550,000
% urban:                                          28% (urban = community of
more than 2,000 persons)
Total population growth rEte (1962-74):                       3.3%
Urban population growth are (1962-74):                        8.6%
Modern sector labor force growth rate (1962-74):              3.5%
Education
1.  Enrollments (1975):
Number  Female      Enrollment Ratios
(a) Primary                               157,821    36%   65% (6-11 age group)
(b) Total Secondary                        32,978    25%   15% (12-17 age group)
Junior High                      22,605    27%
Senior High                      10,373    22%
(c) Technical/Vocational                    1,099    10%
(d) Higher Education                        2,759
University of Liberia             1,984    21%
Cuttington College (1974)           350
Foreign scholarships                425
2. Teachers (1975):
Pupils/
Number Female Qualified Teachers
Primary                                  4,554     29%       25%        35
Secondary                                1,268     15%       66%        26
Teacher Training (Primary)                  53     23%       n.a.        8



3. Education Finance (1975):
Public Education Expenditure per capita           US$    10.3
Per pupil expenditure Primary Education           US$    37
Per pupil expenditure Secondary Education         us$   11o
Per pupil expenditure Technical/Vocational        US$   730
Per pupil expenditure Teacher Training            us$   goo
Per student expenditure University                US$ 1,290
Percent of Current Government Expenditure
to Ministry of Education (1975)                         13.3%
Percent of GNP devoted to Public                           2.5%
Education Expenditure
GNP per capita                                    US$   410



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project for Liberia, for
which a Bank loan of US$6.3 million is proposed. The first and second
projects together with the proposed third project provide a phased and co-
ordinated program of assistance for education spanning eight years (1972-80)
that is helping Liberia to develop a sound education system.
Background
ii.       At the time of initial Government and Bank Group collaboration
in the education sector, the Liberian education system was poorly suited
to the needs of the country. There were a number of good educational in-
stitutions, but the major part of the system suffered from lack of plan-
ning, administrative weaknesses, uneven distribution of schools, inadequate
financial provision, underpaid and ill-trained teachers, unsuitable physical
facilities, shortages of teaching materials, academically biased curricula,
and lack of effective technical and agricultural training.
iii.      The first education project, Credit 305-LBR for US$7.2 million,
signed in May 1972, contributed to an improvement of physical facilities in
specific high priority areas, through construction or extension of an agri-
cultural and forestry college, two multilateral high schools and a rural
primary teacher training institute. To lay the foundation for sound educa-
tional planning, the project financed technical assistance for the prepara-
tion of an indicative manpower plan and a long-range plan (1976-87) for the
University of Liberia. Together, these two plans provided data for another
project-assisted planning exercise: the initial draft of a long-range educa-
tion plan (1976-84) now being completed under the second education project.
This plan formed the basis for determining priorities for Bank investment in
the second and proposed third projects.
iv.       At early stages of project implementation, there were delays in
the construction program due to lack of experience in the newly-created
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), shortages of certain building materials,
and limited capacity of the local construction industry. The latter dif-
ficulty was overcome by breaking down civil works contracts into smaller
packages which local contractors could execute more easily. The project
is expected to be completed with a six-month delay and only a modest cost
overrun, to be financed by the Government.
v.        The second project, Loan 1266T-LBR for US$4.0 million, signed in
June 1976, provides assistance to the Ministry of Education to: (a) improve
its organizational structure and procedures for financial and personnel
administration and for procurement and distribution of educational supplies;



- ii -
(b) strengthen curriculum development, educational testing, textbook produc-
tion and adult education; (c) increase access to education in the rural areas
through the construction of community schools in some 45 villages and through
further expansion of primary teacher training, particularly for women; and
(d) prepare project items to be financed under the third project. Compared
with the first project, the project has substantially increased the fellowship
and staff training components and, where necessary, technical assistance in
order to overcome difficulties of local staff shortages and inadequate on-the-
job or fellowship training. Experience gained by the Project Implementation
Unit during the first project has markedly improved performance under the
second project; since Loan effectiveness in July 1976, construction contracts
have been awarded and project implementation is on schedule.
Project Description
vi.       The proposed third education project aims mainly at meeting
specific training needs and improving science education. The project
would be implemented over the period 1977-80 and would provide US$6.3
million to:
(a) Strengthen industrial training by:
(i) constructing, furnishing and equipping buildings
for an Agricultural and Industrial Training Board
(AITB) and for a vocational training center (VTC)
in Monrovia; and
(ii) providing technical assistance and fellowships
to establish the training bureau and the VTC,
and fellowships and equipment to develop manpower
planning;
(b)  Expand forestry training by constructing, furnishing
and equipping a training institute for forest rangers
and forestry workers, and providing technical assist-
ance and fellowships to help establish the institute;
(c) Improve secondary education in science and technology by:
(i) constructing, furnishing and equipping science/
technology centers at four rural secondary schools;
(ii) providing technical assistance to help launch
these new science programs;
(iii) providing fellowships for training education
administrators and secondary teacher trainers; and



- iii -
(iv) supplying vehicles and equipment for field and office
work related to the above training programs; and
(d) Strengthen educational architecture by providing fellow-
ships, technical assistance and equipment.
vii.      The competently staffed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) respon-
sible for implementing the first two education projects would be expanded to
implement the proposed third project. Implementation of the project would
involve collaboration of the PIU with the Ministry of Labor, Youth and
Sports, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry, and the University of Liberia. Each of these agencies
has nominated a staff member to liaise with the PIU on project implementation.
viii.      A new Division of Educational Facilities is being established
within the Bureau of Planning and Research of the Ministry of Education. When
the Division is fully staffed with trained personnel, it will render the
Ministry independent of consulting architects for most planning and project
work. The new Division will report directly to the Project Director on
project matters, and will be responsible for the design and site supervision
work for all three Bank Group projects.
Cost Estimates
ix.     The total cost of the project, including US$1.0 million in taxes and
customs duties, is estimated at US$9.5 million with a foreign exchange compo-
nent equivalent to the proposed loan of US$6.3 million, 66% of the total cost
or 74% of the net-of-tax cost of US$8.5 million. Cost estimates for con-
struction are based on recent contracts for building construction in Liberia
similar to those in the project, estimated for January 1977. The estimated
average cost of construction is US$250 per square meter of gross area, which
compares favorably with prevailing costs for similar construction in neigh-
boring West African countries. The cost of technical assistance is estimated
to average US$36,000 per man-year and is based on recent experience of Unesco
and the Government in recruiting technical assistance personnel for Liberia
under direct contract. The project cost includes an allowance for physical
contingencies consisting of 6% for civil works, architects' fees and furni-
ture, and 8% for equipment. The allowance for price increases is 24% of the
base cost plus physical contingencies.
Procurement and Disbursement
x.        Civil works valued at US$3.8 million, furniture valued at US$0.3
million, and equipment valued at US$1.4 million would be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items which cannot be grouped in pack-
ages of at least US$50,000 equivalent each, or which are not suitable for in-
ternational competitive bidding, would be procured on the basis of quotations
or through local competitive bidding, following procedures acceptable to the



- iv -
Bank. The value of such purchases is expected to be about US$0.2 million.
Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the total applicable
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
xi.       The funds from the loan account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 55% of total civil works expenditures, including pro-
fessional fees (US$2.4 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported and
65% of expenditures for locally procured furniture and
equipment (US$1.3 million);
(c) 85% of total expenditures for technical assistance
(US$0.9 million); and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships (US$0.8
million).
US$0.9 million would be unallocated. All disbursements would be fully docu-
mented. Any funds remaining undisbursed at the completion of the project
would be cancelled. The project is expected to be completed in about 3-1/2
years after loan signing.
xii.      The Project Implementation Unit, which has so far kept records
of project expenditures in a satisfactory manner, with an annual audit by
an independent firm of auditors, would continue to maintain project accounts
with such independent audits.
xiii.     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a loan of
US$6.3 million for a term of 20 years, including a 4-1/2 year grace period.



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a third education project for Liberia, for
which a Bank loan of US$6.3 million is proposed. The first and second
projects together with the proposed third project provide a phased and co-
ordinated program of assistance for education spanning eight years (1972-80)
that is helping Liberia to develop a sound education system.
1.02      Credit 305-LBR.  The appraisal report of the first education project
(US$7.2 million, signed in May 1972), indicated that the Liberian education
system was poorly suited to the needs of the country. There were a number of
good educational institutions, but the major part of the system suffered from
lack of planning, administrative weaknesses, uneven distribution of schools,
inadequate financial provision, underpaid and ill-trained teachers, unsuitable
physical facilities, shortages of teaching materials, academically biased cur-
ricula, and lack of effective technical and agricultural training.
1.03      To help overcome some of the these difficulties, the first project
emphasized educational planning. The preliminary step was the preparation of
an indicative manpower plan, which represented one of the first elements in
drawing up the National Socio-Economic Development Plan (1976-80). It also
led to the setting up of a Division of Manpower Planning in the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs, and recommended the creation of a National
Training Board; the latter is being established and will be supported under
the proposed third project. The project also assisted the University of
Liberia in publishing a long-range plan (1976-87) which clarified University
objectives, recommended changes in policy, proposed alternative enrollment and
financial projections, and prepared an outline plan of the physical facilities
needed for future development. Together, the manpower and university plans
provided data which enabled the Government to prepare, with project-financed
technical assistance, a draft Long-Range Education Plan (1976-84); funds are
included under the second project for its completion. This plan provided the
first reliable enrollment projections and financial requirements for all
levels of Liberian education and was influential in bringing about improvement
in teachers' salaries. It also formed the basis on which priorities for Bank
investment in the second and proposed third projects could be determined.
1.04      Constraints in planning, administration and funding limited the ex-
tent to which the first project could contribute to an improvement in physical
facilities. A start was made, however, in certain areas of high priority:
(a) construction of a new College of Agriculture and Forestry and two multi-
lateral high schools with a science/agricultural/technical education bias,
(b) extensions to a rural teacher training institute for primary teachers,
and (c) provision of science teaching equipment to the Teacher College of the
University of Liberia for secondary teachers.



-2-
1.05      Loan 1266T-LBR.  Planning work under the first project defined
more clearly the deficiencies in the system and provided support for Bank
sector and identification studies leading to the second education project.
The second project (US$4.0 million, signed in July 1976) provides assistance
to the Ministry of Education to: (a) improve its organizational structure
and procedures for financial and personnel administration and for procurement
and distribution of educational supplies, (b) strengthen curriculum develop-
ment, educational testing, textbook production, and adult education, (c) in-
crease access to education in rural areas through the construction of commu-
nity schools in some 45 villages and through further expansion of primary
teacher training, particularly for women, and (d) prepare project items to
be financed under the third project.
1.06      First and second project implementation.  The first project estab-
lished a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Educa-
tion -- a unit on which other parts of the Ministry and other donor agencies,
including the African Development Bank (ADB), are becoming increasingly
dependent. At the early stages of project implementation, there were delays
in the construction program due to lack of experience in project administra-
tion, shortages of certain building materials, and limited capacity of the
local construction industry. The latter difficulty was overcome by breaking
down civil works contracts into smaller packages which local contractors
could execute more easily. The education and university planning components
have proceeded satisfactorily, and the project is expected to be completed
with a six-month delay and with only a modest cost overrun, to be financed
by the Government. Experience gained by the PIU in implementing the first
project has markedly improved performance under the second project; since
loan effectiveness in July 1976, construction contracts have been awarded
and project implementation is on schedule.
1.07      Because skills in project administration, as well as in planning
and technical teacher training, were not readily available in Liberia, the
first project provided technical assistance and fellowships in these areas.
As the project developed, it became clear that manpower shortages were more
acute than had been anticipated and the need for technical assistance more
persistent. It also appeared that insufficient emphasis had been placed on
training Liberians through fellowships or on-the-job training by the tech-
nical assistance personnel. Under the second and proposed third projects,
the training components have been increased substantially, and technical
assistance will be provided where critical staff shortages still exist.
1.08      Third project preparation.  Bank missions that visited Liberia in
April and November 1974 to identify the second education project found that
some of the many project items for which assistance was requested were ready
for financing, while others needed further preparation; it was decided to
include the latter in the proposed third project. The project was prepared
jointly by the Bank, Unesco and the Government. The appraisal mission, which
visited Liberia in August 1976, comprised Messrs. R. Romain (general educa-
tor), J. Coates (economist), W. Cooper (technical educator) and G. Hadjicostas
(civil engineer), and was joined by Mr. G. Abdi (loan officer).



-3-
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   Socio-Economic Conditions and Plans
2
2.01      Liberia, with an area of 111,400 km , has a population of about 1.5
million (1975 est.), about 28% of whom live in urban areas where the annual
growth rate averages 8.6%, compared with 3.3% for the population as a whole.
About 41% of the population is under 15 years of age. Per capita GNP in
1975 was US$410. Income distribution is uneven: about 5% of the population,
comprising urban dwellers in the highest income groups, receive about 60% of
the national income; 24%, comprising mostly urban and other modern sector
employees, receive 15%; and 71%, comprising the labor force in the traditional
sector (mainly subsistence agriculture), receive the remaining 25% of the
country's income.
2.02      Real growth in GDP from 1964 to 1974 was good, reaching 5.7% per
year. The modern sector, which accounts for 86% of output, grew at 6% per
year. Iron ore mining by large concessions constitutes one-third of pro-
duction in the modern economy, and together with rubber production provides
about 80% of exports and one-third of Government revenues.
2.03      According to the National Four-Year Development Plan (1976-80),
real growth over the 1976-80 period was projected to be about 6.8% per year.
However, because of delays in the implementation of expected investments in
iron ore mining and a reduction in the strength of the demand for the coun-
try's main exports, a recent Bank economic mission has estimated that real
growth for this period would be between 3% and 4%.
2.04      Growth in Liberia is now heavily dependent on developments in the
exploitation of iron ore reserves, timber resources and rubber production --
all of which are dominated by foreign concerns. In an attempt to diversify
production and exports, integrate the population into the modern economy, and
provide a basis for future growth, the Government is: (a) promoting the ex-
pansion of light manufactures, and the local processing of timber and rubber;
(b) increasing the production of food and cash crops through special schemes
and integrated rural development projects; (c) investing in roads, port facil-
ities and utilities; and (d) increasing investments in education and training
to develop the skilled manpower necessary to support economic expansion, over-
see the maintenance of the country's renewable natural resources, and reduce
the dependence on expatriate personnel.
B.   Manpower and Training Requirements
2.05      The shortage of Liberian manpower at all levels is one of the more
serious development constraints, requiring the country to depend extensively
on expatriates. The Government has decided that public and private sector
training programs and employment policies should aim at Liberianizing the work
force as expeditiously as possible. Based on the lower estimates for growth
between 1976-80, and assuming production and investment in iron ore mining



increases in the early 1980's, the modern sector will require an estimated
14,000 new workers per year over the 1974-82 period; 43% of them will be
needed for new work places, 49% for replacements and 8% for Liberianizing
the existing work force (Annex 3). The greatest needs are for production
and related workers (28%) and for agricultural and related workers (27%).
Skilled craftsmen from these two categories will comprise about 20% of
total annual demand; the remainder of annual demand includes professional,
technical, administrative and managerial workers (13%); clerical, sales
and service workers (22%); and other miscellaneous occupations (10%).
2.06      Manpower requirements of the forestry sector are estimated to be
an additional 5,000 vocational, 800 technical and 140 professional person-
nel over the 1975-85 period, or an average yearly requirement of about 600
workers. Total annual demand for skilled craftsmen in the electrical, auto-
motive, mechanical and construction trades is about 1,700, with the Monrovia
area requiring about 700.
2.07      A broad-based Government strategy for manpower development is
being formulated. A National Council for Vocational and Technical Education
and Training (NCVTET) has been established with public and private sector
participation to coordinate national vocational training programs and poli-
cies. Its secretariat is the Manpower Planning Division which was established
under the first education project (para. 1.06) and has undertaken planning at
the macro-level. This Division will monitor the progress of Liberianization,
and in this context will ensure that manpower development plans and policies
of individual firms and agencies are consistent with the Government's Liberi-
anization and economic growth targets. An Agricultural and Industrial Training
Board (AITB), to be established as an autonomous body responsible to the
National Council, would coordinate and implement national policies and pro-
grams related to agricultural and industrial training. The national strategy
involves using a combination of private sector and Government-supported
training programs to cover the public and private sector needs not met by the
major private employers. The large concessions in mining and rubber will con-
tinue to operate their training programs. In the public sector an Institute
of Public Administration and a Civil Service Agency have been established to
improve training and personnel administration. In collaboration with Sierra
Leone, middle-level training programs are being organized for customs, for-
estry and telecommunications. The customs and telecommunications training
programs are underway. The Liberian Government is seeking assistance from
the Bank for forestry and vocational training to meet specific manpower needs
(para. 2.06).
2.08      Forestry Training.  Efficient development of the forestry sector
is constrained by the lack of trained personnel required to monitor the
enforcement of concession conditions. The Government has therefore decided
to reorganize forest management to ensure efficiency in the exploitation
of existing timber resources and the conservation of Liberia's timber
potential through reforestation. The Forestry Development Authority, in
consultation with the private sector and with some financial commitment



from that sector, has decided to establish a training institute to produce
forest rangers for the public sector and to train and upgrade workers for
the private sector. The institute would be located in the forest area at
Bomi Hills. Architectural designs and the training of instructors for the
institute are being financed under the second education project.
2.09      Vocational Training.  The problems which have received priority
attention from the Government are: (a) the shortage of formal training
facilities to supply the needs of existing small industries and of indus-
trial development planned for the Monrovia area; (b) the lack of basic
skills among adults in the villages; and (c) the lack of day-to-day admini-
strative capacity to supervise and develop vocational training. To overcome
these deficiencies, the Government is establishing in Monrovia offices for
the Agricultural and Industrial Training Board (para. 2.07) and a Vocational
Training Center to produce skilled workers for the Monrovia area. The Gov-
ernment is seeking USAID assistance to establish skills training programs
in the rural areas and to strengthen apprenticeship and in-plant training.
Financing for the Vocational Training Center and the Agricultural and In-
dustrial Training Board is proposed under the third Bank project.
C.   Education Sector and Development Strategy
Background
2.10      The Ministry of Education controls general and technical education
at the pre-university level. The NCVTET (para. 2.07) coordinates vocational
training conducted by various agencies, including the Ministry of Labor, Youth
and Sports, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Forest Development Authority.
Higher education is provided by two institutions -- the University of Liberia
and the private state-aided Cuttington College.
2.11      Considerable progress has been made in improving access to education.
Enrollment ratios of 65% at the primary and 15% at the secondary level represent
a doubling during the period 1970-75; these, and pupil/teacher ratios of 35:1
at the primary and 26:1 at the secondary level, are about average for Africa.
There has been little increase, however, in the funds devoted to the education
sector: public expenditure in education in 1975 was about 13% of total Govern-
ment expenditures and 2.5% of GNP, both percentages being among the lowest in
Africa.
2.12      The result is, inevitably, a continuation of low-quality standards:
classrooms have become more crowded and double and even triple shifts are
widespread. Schools often lack the necessary teaching equipment and supplies.
The teaching has remained largely theoretical, and science and practical sub-
jects have been neglected. Only 2% of the pupils enrolled at secondary level
in 1975 were in technical education programs. At primary level, only 25% of
the teachers are trained and at the secondary level there are virtually no
Liberian graduate science teachers. The Government has recently increased
teachers' salaries, but at the primary level they remain at the equivalent



-6-
of only twice the per capita GNP, the lowest in Africa. About 14% of the
pupils entering grade 1 graduate from grade 12, and those who leave primary
or secondary school at any stage are ill-prepared for technical or science-
based studies or careers. Of the grade 12 graduates attempting the univer-
sity entrance test, about half fail. Because of the low academic standard
of the student intake, inadequate remedial services, lack of equipment and
shortage of qualified and experienced teaching staff, the university experi-
ences high attrition and repetition rates, especially in science-based pro-
grams and among first-year students.
2.13      Neglect of the rural areas is evidenced in several ways.  The
schools in Monrovia are better financed than rural schools, costing US$70
per child compared with US$32 outside Monrovia. Only in that city is there
a public school properly equipped for science and technology, and with 15%
of the total population, Monrovia has 34% of total lower secondary and 55%
of total upper secondary enrollments. The high illiteracy rate (60% of
males and 85% of females over 15 years of age) is almost entirely a rural
phenomenon.
Government Strategy
2.14      The Government's educational objectives, summarized in the 1976-80
National Development Plan, are to:
(a) Improve the quality of education at all levels, in particular by:
(i) diversifying primary and secondary level curricula,
and increasing the emphasis on science, technical
and practical subjects;
(ii) increasing the supply of trained teachers, train-
ing school supervisors, strengthening examina-
tions and testing services, increasing teachers'
salaries, producing and supplying suitable text-
books, and providing better school buildings;
(iii) improving the programs and equipment for technical
training and practical course work;
(iv) improving the university by providing opportuni-
ties to develop the staff through training and
research on local problems, improving remedial
services, providing better screening of entrants
and better physical facilities, and restricting
the growth of new programs;
(b) Reduce geographical inequities by concentrating the
expansion of school places in rural areas, especially
under a community schools program for primary and



-7-
adult education, and by providing laboratories and
workshops in rural secondary schools.
2.15      To implement its strategy, the Government is relying on Bank assist-
ance.  It is also seeking help from other external agencies, including USAID,
EDF and ADB, for projects concerned with in-service primary teacher training,
the community schools program, science/technology centers for rural secondary
schools, and the strengthening of technical education.
D.   Role of the Bank
2.16      The first Bank Group project aimed primarily at strengthening the
planning and administrative structure of the Ministry of Education, improving
secondary education, and training the necessary teachers to enable the Govern-
ment to achieve its sector objectives: improve the quality of education and
redress the geographical inequities in educational opportunities. The second
project strengthens the education system at its base through construction of
well designed and equipped community schools. The proposed third project
would supplement the objectives of the first two projects, and would improve
and better distribute secondary education facilities, particulary in science
and technology, and assist in meeting the skilled manpower needs of industry
and forestry.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Summary
3.01      The proposed project would be implemented over the period 1977-80
and comprises:
(a) Strengthening the industrial training system through:
(i) construction, furnishing and equipping of build-
ings for an industrial training board and a voca-
tional training center;
(ii) 9 man-years of technical assistance and 23 man-
years of fellowships to help establish the indus-
trial training board and the vocational training
center; and
(iii) 10 man-years of fellowships, together with equip-
ment and vehicles, to develop manpower planning;
(b) Strengthening forestry training through:



-8-
(i) construction, furnishing and equipping of a
training institute for forest rangers and forest
workers; and
(ii) 2 man-years of technical assistance and 7 man-
years of fellowships to help establish the
institute;
(c) Improving secondary education, particularly in science
and technology through:
(i) construction, furnishing and equipping of 4
science/technology centers at rural secondary
schools, and providing vehicles to transport
children from outlying schools to two of these
centers;
(ii) 17 man-years of technical assistance to help
establish the science program and to prepare a
school map;
(iii) 36 man-years of fellowships to train administra-
tors (for science, technical and secondary educa-
tion programs), and secondary teacher trainers;
and
(iv) vehicles and equipment for field and office work
to strengthen science and technology teaching
programs and secondary teacher training; and
(d) Strengthening the Division of Educational Facilities in
the Ministry of Education by providing equipment,
vehicles, 2 man-years of technical assistance and 7
man-years of fellowships.
B.   Project Composition
Industrial Training
3.02      Agricultural and Industrial Training Board (AITB).  The project
would finance (a) construction, furniture and equipment for offices of an
Agricultural and Industrial Training Board on the site of the proposed
Vocational Training Center; and (b) 6 man-years of technical assistance, 14
man-years of fellowships and 4 vehicles for staff field work for the Board.
The Board would be responsible for (a) job analysis and occupational stand-
ards, (b) skill testing and certification, (c) apprenticeship and in-plant
training, (d) vocational guidance, (e) development of programs and instruc-
tional materials, and (f) administration and development of vocational train-
ing institutions. Three specialists would be recruited for two years each
to assist in establishing the Board's activities and seven Liberians would



- 9 -
be trained on fellowships. The Board will play a vital role in overseeing
the industrial training system on a day-to-day basis, monitoring training
standards and policy, and administering the public sector training centers.
Thus, details of arrangements for the creation of the Agricultural and
Industrial Training Board were discussed during negotiations. The estab-
lishment of the Board would be a condition of disbursement of funds for
construction of the premises for the Board and for the Vocational Training
Center (para. 3.03).
3.03      Vocational Training Center (VTC).  The project would finance
construction, furniture and equipment for a Vocational Training Center in
Monrovia, with a capacity for about 270 trainees. This center would serve
the Monrovia area and would train apprentices, upgrade industrial workers,
and offer pre-employment training in four basic trades: mechanical, elec-
trical, automotive and building construction. Training programs would be
arranged to suit the needs of individual groups in part- and full-time
courses. The second education project is financing 18 man-months for a
vocational training consultant to help develop the training programs and
architectural consultants to design the VTC. The proposed third project
would follow up by financing 3 man-months for an equipment specialist, and
30 man-months for a vocational training adviser to assist in establishing
the VTC. The project would also provide 9 man-years of fellowships to train
five Liberians: four as department heads and one as director of the VTC.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
will take the necessary measures to recruit and train instructors as required
for the VTC (Annex 5). The Government has indicated that it would finance
the VTC's operating costs, estimated at US$200,000 annually, but is investi-
gating the feasibility of an industrial levy to help finance these costs.
3.04      Manpower Planning.  The project would finance furniture, equipment
and vehicles and 10 man-years of fellowships to strengthen and expand the
Manpower Planning Division of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
(para. 2.07). This Division, established under the first project for macro-
level manpower planning, would be equipped under the project to (a) serve
as the Secretariat of the National Council for Vocational and Technical
Education and Training, and (b) undertake micro-level planning for the public
and private sectors.
Forestry Training Institute (FTI)
3.05      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for a Forestry Training Institute at Bomi Hills with hostel accommodation
for 100 students and houses for 10 staff members. The FTI would offer a
two-year pre-service course for forest rangers and shorter training courses
for forest workers. The curriculum for the forest ranger program has been
established with FAQ assistance and details of vocational training programs
for forest workers are being developed by the Government. The site for the
proposed Institute is owned by the Government and architectural designs are
being prepared by the Ministry of Education. The project would also provide
two man-years of technical assistance for a specialist in vocational training



- 10 -
to help establish the Institute, especially in regard to the forest workers'
training programs, and seven man-years of fellowships to train four instruc-
tors. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
it will make eight additional houses available for FTI staff, in order to
fulfill the FTI's total housing requirements.
3.06      The Training and Research Board of the Mano River Union, established
in April 1976, would have overall responsibility for the operation of the FTI
on behalf of the Governments of Liberia and Sierra Leone. This Board is co-
chaired by the Deputy Ministers of Education of Liberia and Sierra Leone, and
its membership is composed of representatives of the public and private sectors
concerned with forestry in both countries. The Board would appoint the prin-
cipal of the FTI, who would be responsible for the day-to-day management of
the Institute. An advisory committee for forestry training has been estab-
lished to assist the principal of the FTI in planning the development of the
Institute. The training capacity of the FTI would be shared by the two
countries: about 80% for Liberia and 20% for Sierre Leone. The FTI's annual
output would be about 20 Liberian and five Sierre Leonean forest rangers, most
of whom would enter Government service, and 70 to 90 forest workers who would
be employed principally by the private sector. The FTI's operations would be
financed out of the training and research budget of the Mano River Union, made
up of contributions from the Liberian and Sierra Leone Governments and from
the private sector, upon which a levy adequate to meet its share of the costs
would be made annually. The Liberian Government, as owner of the physical
facilities of the FTI, would guarantee the Institute an adequate operating
budget. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government of
Liberia that it will provide the recurrent financing for the FTI and will en-
sure that the FTI will be operated in accordance with appropriate educational
and management practices.
Secondary Education
3.07      Science/Technology Centers (STCs).  The project would finance
(a) construction, furniture, equipment and vehicles for four science/tech-
nology centers at secondary schools in Robertsport, Greenville, Buchanan
and Sanniquellie; and (b) 16 man-years of technical assistance for eight
experienced science teachers. Each center would have science laboratories
for grades 7-12, a technology workshop and a home economics unit for grades
7-9, a library, a canteen and administrative space. The STCs would have a
total capacity of about 630 places, and serve about 2,200 pupils enrolled
in the four schools. At Greenville and Sanniquellie the STCs would be
attached to new school buildings that the Government will construct in 1978
and 1979, respectively. Science and technology teachers will be trained in
special programs planned by the Government (Annex 5). During the two-year
period between the opening of the STCs (beginning of 1979) and the output
of the first group of graduate science teachers (end of 1980), the project
would finance 8 experienced science teachers to assist in (a) organizing and
establishing the centers, (b) introducing new teaching methods in science,
and (c) providing in-service training for new teachers.



- 11 -
3.08      In addition to the pupils from the central schools attending the
science centers, about 700 pupils from small village schools within a 30-mile
radius would be transported to Sanniquellie and Buchanan for science classes
one day a week. This would be a pilot scheme to determine the feasibility and
costs of busing as a means of providing science and technology instruction to
pupils from small village secondary schools. An analysis of estimated capital
and recurrent costs for this and comparable alternatives indicates that trans-
porting children to an STC is a cost-effective means of providing this type of
instruction.
3.09      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will:
(a) provide the new classrooms and related facilities,
not included in the project, which are required for
the schools in Greenville by December 31, 1978, and
in Sanniquellie by December 31, 1979, and locate
these classrooms and facilities at the sites selected
for the STCs;
(b) train teachers of science, technology and home econom-
ics, and teacher-librarians for the STCs in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to the Bank (Annex 5); and
(c) maintain records of the problems and costs of trans-
porting pupils to the STCs, as well as records on the
proficiency achieved by the transported pupils, to
evaluate the effectiveness of this method of deliver-
ing science and technology instruction to pupils in
small village secondary schools, and by June 30, 1978,
submit to the Bank for approval the proposed format to
be used for recording the necessary data.
3.10      Secondary Education Administration.  The project would provide
office furniture, equipment, vehicles, one man-year of technical assistance
and 12 man-years of fellowships to strengthen and expand the divisions of
secondary education, science education and technical education within the
Ministry of Education. Fellowships would be provided to train administrators
for secondary education -- one for science education and two for technical
education, and two school supervisors for science. A school mapping special-
ist funded under the project would prepare a school map by December 1978.
This map would show the planned geographical distribution of school places by
school and catchment area and would provide a framework for regulating the
future establishment, growth and development of secondary schools.
3.11      Secondary Teacher Training.  The project would provide science and
audio-visual equipment, vehicles and 24 man-years of fellowships to enable
the Secondary Teachers College of the University of Liberia to increase and
improve its output of qualified secondary teachers. The fellowships would



- 12 -
help to train existing staff of the College in science, English, mathematics,
curriculum development and evaluation, and new staff in agriculture, home
economics, business education, guidance and audio-visual media. Full-time
staff would be increased from the present 15 to 21 by 1980; this would enable
the College to increase its capacity from 180 to 360 students.
Educational Facilities
3.12      The project would finance office equipment, vehicles, 2 man-years
of technical assistance and 7 man-years of fellowships to strengthen the
Division of Educational Facilities within the Bureau of Planning and Research
of the Ministry of Education. The fellowships would train five Liberians in
educational architecture, construction supervision, building inspection and
cost estimation. The Division has been established by merging two units of
the Ministry of Education which have been assisted under the first two proj-
ects: the architectural section of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
and the Educational Facilities Office of the Bureau of Planning and Research.
The new Division would design and supervise all construction planned by the
Ministry of Education as well as perform, for the PIU, architectural design
and site supervision work for the three Bank Group projects.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
3.13      The cost of the project, including taxes of US$1.0 million, is
estimated at US$9.5 million. The distribution of project costs by major
category of expenditure is given in paragraph 3.16 and detailed in Annex 6(a).
The breakdown of closts by project items is summarized as follows:



- 13 -
Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
% of Taxes
Base Included
Project Item                      Local  Foreign Total   Cost in Total
I. Industrial Training System         0.9      1.9    2.8      38    0.3
Agricultural and Industrial
Training Board                   0.2      0.6    0.8      11    0.1
Vocational Training Center         0.7      1.2    1.9      25    0.2
Manpower Planning                   -       0.1    0.1        1     -
II. Forestry Training Institue         0.5      0.8    1.3      18    0.1
III. Secondary Education                 1.1     2.0    3.1      41    0.4
Science Technology Centers         1.0      1.5    2.5      33    0.3
Administration                     0.1      0.2    0.3       4    0.1
Teachers' College                   -       0.3    0.3       4      -
IV. Educational Facilities               -      0.2    0.3       3      -
Base Cost Estimate            2.5      4.9    7.4    100    0.8
Physical Contingencies (5%)        0.1      0.3    0.4       5      -
Expected Price Increases (24%)   0.6        1.1    1.7      24    0.2
Expected Cost of Project           3.2      6.3    9.5    129    1.0
3.14      Base cost estimates are for January 1977 and take account of the
prices of recent construction contracts in Liberia.  The estimated average
cost of construction, including site development, is US$250 per square meter
of gross area, which compares favorably with prevailing costs for similar
construction in neighboring West African countries. The cost of technical
assistance is estimated to average about US$36,000 per man-year and is based
on recent experience of Unesco and the Government in recruiting technical
assistance personnel for Liberia.
Contingencies and Price Escalation
3.15      The project cost includes an allowance for physical contingencies
consisting of 6% for civil works, architects' fees and furniture, and 8% for



- 14 -
equipment. The allowance for price increases is 24% of the total base cost
plus physical contingencies, and is estimated on the basis of the following
trends in the annual rates of increase in prices of both local and foreign
goods:
1977                   1980
(Annual Percentage Increase in Prices)
Civil Works                    13                     12
Furniture                      10                     10
Equipment                       9                      8
Technical Assistance            8                      8
Fellowships                     8                      8
Detailed calculations for physical contingencies and price escalation are
given in Annex 6(b).
3.16      Estimated project costs (including taxes) by category of expen-
ditures are:
(US$ million)
% of  Taxes
Base Included
Local  Foreign Total   Cost in Total
Civil works (incl. professional fees) 1.8        2.0     3.8    52    0.3
Furniture                               0.1      0.2     0.3      4    0.1
Equipment                               0.4      1.0      1.4    19    0.3
Technical Assistance                    0.2      0.9      1.1    15    0.1
Fellowships                              -        .8       .8    10     -
Base Cost                          2.5      4.9     7.4   100    0.8
Physical Contingencies (5%)             0.1      0.3     0.4            -
Expected Price Increases (24%)          0.6      1.1     2.7           0.2
Total Project Cost                 3.2      6.3     9.5           1.0
3.17      The foreign exchange component amounts to US$6.3 million, repre-
senting 66% of the total project cost of US$9.5 million. This has been
calculated as follows: civil works, 55%; furniture, 53%; equipment, 72%;
technical assistance, 85%; and fellowships, 100%. Local currency expen-
diture would amount to US$3.2 million, or 34% of the total project cost.
Financing of the Project
3.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$6.3 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange costs, equivalent to 74% of the net-of-tax costs. The



- 15 -
balance of the project costs of US$3.2 million, including US$1.0 million in
taxes, would be financed by the Government. The distribution of Government
and IBRD financing is given in Annex 6(c).
Project Recurrent Costs
3.19      By full development in 1983, the project would increase the Govern-
ment's recurrent expenditures by US$700,000, or about 2% of budgetary ex-
penditures for education in that year. This increase would be distributed as
follows: Agricultural and Industrial Training Board and Vocational Training
Center, 42%; Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, 28%; Ministry of Education,
23%; Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, 6%; and the University, 1%.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that ade-
quate budgetary provisions for the operation of project institutions will be
made on time, and that the new Division of Educational Facilities will be
established with a budgetary allocation by July 31, 1977 (para. 3.12).
Arrangements for budgetary provisions for the FTI, the AITB and the VTC will
be reviewed by the Government and the Bank when approval is given for each
construction contract.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Project Administration.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
established within the Ministry of Education to implement the first two
education projects, would be responsible for implementing the third project.
It would liaise with staff from other ministries and departments of govern-
ment concerned with the project, notably the Ministry of Labor, Youth and
Sports and the National Council for Vocational and Technical Education and
Training for vocational and industrial training, the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs for manpower planning, and the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Forestry Development Authority for forestry training. Each of these
agencies has already nominated liaison staff.
4.02      To handle the additional workload of the third project, the PIU will
be strengthened by the appointment of a third Deputy Project Director starting
in May 1977. The Project Director would continue to be responsible for the
duties relating to the second project, outlined in Article III, Section 3.01,
of Loan Agreement No. 1266T-LBR dated June 7, 1976. To ensure that the PIU
will be adequately staffed, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the staff will include the following competent and experienced personnel:
(a) a Project Director, under terms and conditions of employment acceptable
to the Bank, (b) three Deputy Project Directors, (c) an accountant, and (d) a
procurement specialist.
4.03      To give the Ministry of Education the capacity to undertake most of
its own architectural design and construction supervision work, the Government



- 16 -
has decided to establish a Division of Educational Facilities (para. 3.12).
When this Division is fully staffed with trained personnel, it would enable
the Ministry to become independent of the need for consultants for most of
the architectural work, and should preclude delays in design work that might
otherwise occur with the appointment of consultants. This Division will be
responsible for the design and site supervision work for all three Bank Group
projects.
4.04      Technical Assistance and Fellowships.  The project includes 30 man-
years of technical assistance as detailed in paras. 3.02, 3.03, 3.05, 3.07,
3.10, 3.12 and Annex 7. The Government expects to enlist the assistance
of ILO in recruiting vocational training specialists for the Industrial Train-
ing Board and the Vocational Training Center, and of Unesco in recruiting the
school mapping specialist. Science teachers and other technical assistance
personnel would be recruited directly by the Government. During negotiations
an assurance was obtained from the Government that it will employ, through
technical assistance financed under the project, only persons whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to
the Bank.
4.05      The project would provide 83 man-years of fellowships as indicated
in paras. 3.02-3.05, 3.10-3.12 and Annex 7. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will award fellowships to suitably
qualified persons, enroll them in training programs satisfactory to the Bank,
provide an appropriate budget and positions to absorb the trained personnel,
and require the recipients to serve at least two years in the positions for
which they were trained.
4.06      Sites.  The sites for all project buildings have been selected
and agreed upon with the Bank. They are either already in Government's
possession or in the process of being transferred to it.
4.07      Procurement.  Civil works valued at US$3.8 million, furniture valued
at US$0.3 million, and equipment valued at US$1.4 million would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items which cannot be
grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent each, or which are not
suitable for international competitive bidding, would be procured on the basis
of quotations or through local competitive bidding, in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. The value of such items is estimated at about
US$0.2 million. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports
or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
4.08      Disbursements.  The funds from the loan account would be disbursed
as follows:
(a) 55% of total civil works expenditures, including pro-
fessional fees (US$2.4 million);



- 17 -
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
and 65% of expenditures for locally procured furni-
ture and equipment (US$1.3 million);
(c) 85% of total expenditures for technical assistance
(US$0.9 million); and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships (US$0.8
million).
US$0.9 million would be unallocated. All disbursements would be fully docu-
mented. Any funds remaining undisbursed at the completion of the project
would be cancelled. Implementation schedules and estimates of disbursements
are in Annexes 8, 9 and 10. The project is expected to be completed in about
three and a half years after loan signing.
4.09      Accounts.  The PIU, which so far has kept up-to-date records of
project expenditures in a satisfactory manner, with annual audits by an
independent firm of auditors, would continue to maintain the project accounts
and such independent audits. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that the project accounts, with an audit report by a
firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, will be submitted to
the Bank not later than four months following the close of each fiscal year.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Assurances
5.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a) take the necessary measures to recruit and train
instructors as required for the Vocational Training
Center (para. 3.03);
(b) make available about eight houses for the staff
of the Forestry Training Institute (para. 3.05);
(c) guarantee financing for the Forestry Training Insti-
tute and ensure that the Institute will be operated
efficiently, in accordance with appropriate educa-
tional and management practices (para. 3.06);
(d) provide the new classrooms and related facilities,
not included in the project, which are required for
the schools in Greenville by December 31, 1978, and
in Sanniquellie by December 31, 1979, and locate
these classrooms and facilities at the sites selected
for the science/technology centers (para. 3.09);



- 18 -
(e) train teachers of science, technology and home eco-
nomics, and teacher-librarians for the science/tech-
nology centers in accordance with a schedule accept-
able to the Bank (Annex 5) (para. 3.09);
(f) maintain records of problems and costs of transport-
ing pupils to the STCs, as well as records on the pro-
ficiency achieved by the transported pupils, to evalu-
ate the effectiveness of this method of delivering
science and technology instruction to pupils in small
village secondary schools and by June 30, 1978, submit
to the Bank for approval the proposed format to be
used for recording the necessary data (para. 3.09).
(g) make adequate and timely budgetary provisions for the
operation of project institutions and ensure that the
new Division of Educational Facilities will be estab-
lished with a budgetary allocation by July 31, 1977
(para. 3.19);
(h) staff the Project Implementation Unit with the follow-
ing competent and experienced personnel: (i) a
Project Director, under terms and conditions of em-
ployment acceptable to the Bank, (ii) three Deputy
Project Directors, (iii) an accountant, and (iv) a
procurement specialist (para. 4.02);
(i) employ, through technical assistance financed under
the project, only persons whose qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment are
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.04);
(j) award fellowships to suitably qualified persons, en-
roll them in training programs satisfactory to the
Bank, provide the appropriate budget and positions
to absorb the trained personnel, and require the re-
cipients to serve at least two years in the positions
for which they were trained (para. 4.05);
(k) ensure that the project accounts, with an audit re-
port by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, will be submitted to the Bank not later than
four months following the close of each fiscal year
(para. 4.09).
B.   Condition
5.02      A condition of disbursement of funds for construction of the
premises for the Agricultural and Industrial Training Board and the Vocational



- 19 -
Training Center would be the establishment of the Agricultural and Industrial
Training Board (para. 3.02).
5.03      On the basis of the above assurances and condition, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$6.3 million for
a term of 20 years, including a 4-1/2 year grace period.



I



COMPARATIVE E0UCti'lP4' INDICATORS
Page I of 2
NOVEMBER to, 1976
I        I GNP/ I I GNP   11 TOTALIS   OF PUBLIC  I                 I        I           aPRI.  :AV.PRI.   I               I        :SEC   I 
I        ICAPITAS  DEVUTEDIPUSLIC  4 EDUCATION    tLITER- * PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- I 
I        I  AT   I TO EDU,:   EXP, I RECURRENT    :ACY              tENROLLITION         :DENTSOSALARY INtION RATE  :ENRULLtDENTStHIGHIER3
I       4MARKETI CPUBLICIDEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATEDt  RATE  :RATIO IRATE FORtPER   :RELATION  iFROM PRI.:RATIO :PER   IENROLL:
I POP.  aPRICES:  EXP.    I  TO    I           TO:        :0  OF   a NET   iPRI.SCH.ITEACH4,  TO GNP/  ITO SEC.              NET   ITEACil- RATIO:
YRs(0041) I (USS): ONLY)   I  EDU. sPRI. SEC. HI.SADULTS)t (0)   :CYCLE(X)tER    I CAPITA   I  (1)                           :(%)   :ER    I (%) I
(1) it  (2) I  (3)    :  (4)   :             09)       3 (63    : (7)     (83    I (9)I:  (10)    I (11)               :(12)   :(13) 4(14)
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA          73    7.9  3,910          44.3     9.9    '470  250   2040    99          98        93         26        2. 0        99        51        19       8.400
CANADA            72  22,10 5,450D         7.7    t9,4       30    38    19       98       89        98         24        2.0         99        82        17       9.00
GERMANY F.REP.72   6I.OD 5,320D            4.2    1'4,2      ,*.  74** 26         99       91        99         33        ...         99        91        22      17.OOCY
JAPAN             71 108.30 3,630D         4.3    20.7       39    38    12       99       990       99C        25C       2.0         99C       94D      ?0C    28.000
NETHERLANDS    72   13.00 4,33flD          8.-,   19.G    32    45    19          99       95        95         29          . 0       97        73       20      11.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    2.9   3.6844          5.2    ...        39    24    29       99       99        99         26        ...         99        67        19     24. 00
NORWAY            72    3.9D 4,6611D       7.4)   i5.2       98g   23    13       99       99        98         20        1.9         99        76       144     11.u0
SWEDEN            73    8.4   5, 9244      8.9    16.u       36    10    13       99       99        99         17        ...         90        85        14     30.00
U.K.              72   55.00  3.06OD0    6. 3    12.7    226    39    22          98       99         ...       26        2. 0        ...       6 3       17      11.00
U.S.A.            72 210.00 6,200D         6.0    19.4        ...   73** 2 7      99       99        99         29U       2.0         ...       93        49U    29.00
EUROPE
GR-E-ECE          71    8.9D 1,87o40       2.2    11,4       54Y  29Y'  101    82A         95Y        ...       32Y      ...          704A      30       'o3Y    11.00
IRELAND           72    3.00 2.150D        5.4 I   43.90    443Y  41Y'  144'    98         97        99 A       35       ...          95A       75        19       7.0O4
PORTUGAL          72    9.00D 1,41oD)0.94........  ............. .                                                                              6500      .        7.60oy
SPAIN             71  334.70  1,7140D      2.08   15.24    '490   224'  154       94A      OI             .      SA      ..           ..        204      30A       6.O0A
AFRICA
ALGERI            7    15.7      778       7.5'      ...     40 32G   18G    30            76        62E        442E.     6.0G        449E      17       25        4.00
BENIN             73    2.9      It( o     S.3    32.0       4 7    23    10      I I      32X8      7 08       SOIR     25.08        0 38        76b     3 93     0.44CY
BOTSoANA          74    0.7      3044      5.44   2'4.44     38    20    15S    25         700       75         35        9.0         20I       130       18       U.30y
BURUNDI           74    3.5       92       2.9,   1q9        4470  41    12R    1 0        200       34'?       38       144.(        la          20X     18       1.0
CAMEROON          73    6.2      254       5.9    244.0      380   29Y'  114      ..       70          ..        104     ...          ..          9      23C0    0.9OCo
C.A.R.            To    2.744    16440     4.oN5  214.0      96    19  ...        .        64CY      25         69C4'    ...          10          5CY    2 7,3    u0.47Y
CHAD              79r   4.D0    8440       3.44)    44. f    78    22       -     15       29084'   344         658BY    15.0          44         2000   30        0.0130
CONGU(B)          74    1.3      495i)     6.4 4t 9.3        4 0    32    21      50?    133X        63         6 3       6.0         48        33X      22        3.400
EGYPT             74   36.')     2 84)     9.3       ...     29    36    24       40       700       445       4444      ...          64        39X       240    14.00
ETHIOPIA          73  26.9        944      3.4    244.0      02    29    18        7       17C       42         5 0       3 .0        63          2       3 0      v.00
GABON             7 3    0 . r 1 ,3144     5.44    244.6     2S,     9    141     ...    180084'   29C          46C       9.0         184       20C      ?IL       1.40C0
GHANA             741   9. 'so    3400D    4.7    244.4044   380   150   230    ...        56XCr    62          3oCY    ...             40      1 1 0     16C0    0 .74H44
IVORY COAST    72   5,.0         38440BO   6. 3    24.7      2784' 338BY 13Y'    94        52        574        46       ...          ...       1 0      215       1.2004'
KENYA             73   12.34    1744        6.05N  27.o       63    41    11      40       73         ...       444       a 8.4      A1         1 2      23        1.0334Y
LESOTHO           79r   1.2      14445N     42.4'P  23.0     '49    4 8    20     40       85;       944       r52        7.0N        8 1       10U      26        1 .u00
LIBERIA           7Sr     1.9    410t       2.5   I43. 2     2 7    159    2 0    7 3      5R         . ..      35;       2. 0        . ..      1 2      2to       1.104A0
MADAGASCAR        74    0. 6     19440      1. 2    22.41     50    24    25r     4 0      680       344        63       49;. 0       '48        00      26        1 . 40
MALAWI            74    44.80    12440D    3.41   24.9...  ..              ... 25          560       60         S44       7 .4        4 0         40x    20C      0.,6CY
MALI              75    5.7F      90F       4.2M   33.0      4.51   37F  I8F    IOF        22X        ...       48F       9.5F        50.D0F     6X      21 . 0
MAURITANIA        74    1 L.20    2440      4 .9    21L.44. .             .... .  1I0       490       ...       22         ...        ...         3      24         .
MAURITIUS         72    0.80    44400      3.7    41.700   71    40         0     80       86         99        31        ...                   31       30        1.A7CY
MOROCCO           70   19 .9     3244       S.4C   46 .5      40    07      9     26?      500        21        37        .            1        130      2 1      2.100
NIGERIA           73   71.20    24440       3.25   ...        4444   ?4A   2044   .. .     39XCY    .. .        344CY     .. .        . ..        4      2000    o.37CY
RWANDA            73    3.90       7440     3.2C   28.40ID....... 23                       52         ...       151       ...         ...         2      4 3      u .23CY
SENEGAL           70   '4.440    28040      4.0N5  22.900   304  '42A    54    10          300        ...       06b        ...        ...       110      25        1.71CY
SIERRA LEONE   71    2.7         1644      3.44    23.,4      31    36    30       t5?     300        09        32        It .OE      68        130      2 1      u.538Y
SOMALIA           75,   3.2      1444       3.70   14.8U    090   160   190    50?         34X        86        35       144.0        60         45       5       0.10
SUDAN             72   17.00      43440     1  r 44  3 .2    143    79    28      1 9      38         75        ASr       4 .0        25        441      20(       1.230
SWAZILAND         79    0.9      4440       44.9    289.0u    37    3 1    I      50s      70         50S       38        0.0         44        1 9      22       2.U0
TANZANIA          74   13. 2C    I oC      9.45N  47.u        36    ...   12      63       400        ...       49        ...          7         2       LILI     0 .3 0
TUNISIA           73    9.40    4600)       6.3    23.4       37    43    18      99;      72        81        041        6.0         it        14       24       3.440
UGANDA            744  Io.80    49440       9.2N   47.6CR   4409  120   250    254         400CY    ...         36        ...         14A        4000   21        4.5660
UPPER VOLTA    72    5.70         7440      4.04   23.9       69    130     6       )      I10        ...       35       48 .44      244         2       23       0,44444
ZAIRE             73  23. 4      144)     5S.2CN 21.3C    5'4C   17C  29C    15            63         38        44A       6.0         43         0       20             9~6B4y
ZAMBIA            70    3 .7     '482      9. ,3    1 44.2    3/4    4 8    16    03       88        04 0)47              9. 0        24        43       22       1. 00
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
COS;TA RICA       74-     -. 80    714)    9.2    22 .7       57     9     1 2    8 9      86C0      69         20        3. 0        98        22CY    24       1 2.41 CrY
DOMINICAN REP.72    4 . 140    52440     3.44     43,9        42    24    22    951        80         1 7       50        3.00        63        13.5    24        7 .0 0
EL SALVADOR    79    3.70    35440          3.6    23.0      61      5    22      608      65C        ...       IOCY      ...         39        1300    2000    4.3544'
GUATEMALA         73    9.4      5444       4.9    16.u       59    23    140     47       64        26         39        3.0         69         8       25       4.094'
HAITI             72    4.40    4340D      44.9     6.6a    64    it        8     208      22        29?        49s       9.0         50         3       23       1.00?
HONDURAS          72    2.70    324)0      3.9    26 .503   60    13    1 8       52       840        1 8       37        6.0         75        100      1 4      3.0 0
JAMAICA           72    1.90    9940D      6.9Y'  49.7        334'  220    74'   86       10604'      ...       92        ....                  3200    49        4.79Y'
MEXICO            70   56.4OD    89)0D     2.6      9. 3      90    24    1 2     76       7 1       3 1        06        3.0        6          1 9      03       6.32Cr
NICARAGUA         74    2.00    94440      2 .9     44. 2    6 1    13    1 3     5,7      69        241        37        2. 0       93         1 7      24       7. 00
TRINIDAD & T. 71    4.440 4.3140D          5.I    ).9        93    27    12       90        990      87         39        4.0         is        49       25       2.564AY
SOUTH AMERICA
501.391k          76    5.8       315F      5.0    17.5F  ...                     . SA     in         290      24         so..                    43     18D
BRAZIL            744 101.10    7600        0. 3    12.0C    42    24       3 7    79      80X       ...        27CR      ...        ...        Lae      ISCO    6.006
CHILE             72   10. 20    72)0D     0.64'   40.64A'   36Y  140   36Y    ...   I112IX0D'    ...          3764'      ...        . ..       98004'   ...
COLOMBIA          70o  22.950   '444440 D  4.44    t  9       39,   18a    2 0    7 3      67        2 0       36         4.0        90         1 7      1        8.0
ECUADOR           7 2    6.70    3800       3.7    27.7C    450Y 420Y' 1000   69           7 2       ...       38         ...        ...        18a      104      4.9784Y
GUYANA            74    o.7      4140D     S.8N   t4070    47    39    1 4        83A      924       39        331       6. 0        1 9       620      24        1 .0 0
PARAGUAY          70    2.40    374         4.8    II. 0     55    4 3    22      8 1      4 2       26        3 0       1.9         65        1 7      1 2      5.oo
PERU              7 1   14.50    6200      '4 .5    24.410   5,0    22    0 5     72       440       36        3904'     3. 0        10        30       2304'   12.00
VENEZUELA         73   11.2   1.630        44.6    49.9      30 0  280   350    77A        A 1       ...       3 3       2.0         * ..      33       . ..     2.3CY



COMPARATIV~EDEUCAYION  INDICA'TOWS   (CONTO)                                      A0ID. 1
C NOVEMSBR 1ee I9?6 
I       i GNP/  I ~I  3W 1  TOTAL:Z  CF. PUBLIC I              a                    PRI. :AV.PRI.   I                       SE 
ICAPITAt DEVOM!IPUBLIC I EDUCATION    ILITER.  I PRI. tCOMPLE-  WSU- 3SCH.TEACHIPROGRESS-2 SEC. ISTU'  1 
IAT  i To E90.s  EXP. I RECURRENT    aACY            eENROLLITION        IDENTS:SALARY INIION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS2HIGHER:
I    MARKETS (PWO.ICgDEVOTED,EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE gRATIO IRATE FORIPER   tRELATION :FROM P RI.IRATIO inPER  IENROLL,
iPOP. iPRICESI EXP.   :. TO    I           TO,       I (1 DYr     NET  IPRI.SCH.3TEACHt TO GNP/ tTO SEC.  : NET  :TEACIH- RATio:
YRt(000) in CUSS): ONLY)  IEDU. :PRI. SEC. HI.iADULTS)s (3    ICYCLE(3)ER    aCAPITA   :  CS                         a (%)  :ER    :  'I 
I       I       I          I         I                I        r'       I          : I                a           I
i Cl) 22  (2) 1  (31    1  (4)  :           (5)       i(6)    a (7)  i  (8)    a (9) 2(10)    I(II)                s(t2)  :(13) 2(14)
A31A AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74   16,3        90?     ..39P  23P  l6P    to                        260       24       L41      9).0        78         80x    21       1.00
BANGLADESH      73  74.0        so      1.2   20.2       .......,    23              56X       ...      48        ....                 23X     28
CHINACTAIWAN) 73  15.4         660      3.2    14.0      28    41   22       82      98C       94       40       140         8          ic     2b      20.40C
INDIA           71 561.9D    (200       2.6VY ..           .      .     . 29         79X       ...      43A       ...        ...       28X     20AY    4.00AY
INDONESIA       73 124.40    1300        1.  1.0         63.(23    14    62          63        40       32        9.0        91        12      16       2.0 0
IRAN            73  32.1       670      3.3   1,2.6      508   188  128    5 0       77        74A      32        53.08      BOA       24      3 2      4.32CY
IRAQ            72  10.4D   850D        6.7    16.3DR....... 26                      61CY      ...      22        ..         ..        26XCY  26        6 28CY
JORDAN          73   2.5       340      7 .0     R,8    '52    Is   21       59      910       76       38        5.0        84        50      22       4.:0 0
KOREA           73  32.9       400      2.9    20.1    64   26        8    92        97        90       53        3.0        71        46      37       6.0 0
LEBANON         72   2.90    940D       3.5    18.0      39   40    10       68      86        65        19       2.0        63        260     25      23. 00
MALAYSIA        74   11.7      670      6.4    28,.0     44    31    it    60C       96F       90       32        4.00       83F       44F     27F      3.OOF
OMAN            72    0.60    840D      1.7N    3.8      96     -   .'       20      240       99       33        7.0        ...       0.40    94        .
PAKISTAN        79  66.20    1200       1,6    (6,2      45   25)   18      21       470       so       39        2.0        ...       17X     18       6.0 0
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.6       410      5.6    t6,1      38    16   24       32      57?       73P      31       11.0        90        1207    24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  40,20    2800        2.5    14.9      73    Is    12      87     1040       ...      34       15.0        ...       46X      ...    2 1.0 0
SINGAPORE       72   2.20 t,8300        3.1    (6.2      44   31    15      75A      96Y       72A      33        ...        99A       57Y     214      8.2SF
THAILAND        73  39.4       270     i4.UNF 20.7F    65,    9    15       82       870       93C      32        3 .0 U     9(C       21X     24       2 .40 
TURKEY          72  37.90    8000       ...    13.0DR9.......(.OSOCY    ...,                            34DY      ...        ...       22XY    270Y   5.31BY
YEMEN           71   6.3       10)      01.5    4.0      45P  2IP  a3p    to         (50       (8       36        5.0        75         20     14       0.0SBY
YEMEN P.D,R.  72   1.50    I1OD         2.3A   12,6      79    12     -      10      700       31       29       00.0        99        120     20       0.018AY
NUMBER OF COUNTRIESI                    74      71      69    68   68      69       77        53       76          51       54        77      73        73
RANGE:                               (0.5-   (3,8-   (25- (0-  (0-    (9-         ((0-     (17-      ((9-       (1.8-    (7-       (.4-    14-       C.uI-
12.11P )  32,3)  96 ) 52)  40)   981           (8401    99 )    6151         25.0)    99)       75.0)  43)       23.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER                        ,2    22.1    955    31   22       75       87       75        46          a        80       29       26      0.
MEDIAN:                   4.0t   (8.0      459   23    15     50       71       5)0       38          9        6 3       16      23      2.40
LOwER :                   3.0    13,9      38    (6   (2      21       52       30        33          3        25         9      20        .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                  A=1970 OR BEFORE             M=CUJRRENT PRICES                         SUURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8-1971                             N-GDP----
7QUESTIONABLE                      C-1972                       PaINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNS:1  AND 2 WHNLU BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS Dxl973                             O-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                           OR TVHI MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY             EU1974                       R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO) 14 lORD MISSIONS
F-1975                       SXMOE AND STATE GOAT, ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCU
Gx1976                       TzEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOUK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YzUNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OP RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPRHOACHED ,lTH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF E3TIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO) CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANX IS HORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(1)'EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION OY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIESI
(5)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7. 12 AND (4 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THsE DEVELOIPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCAIION PROJECT                                                           ANNEX 2
PROJECT CONTENT OF FIRST AND EIEOND AND PRLOPOSRD TRIRD EDUCATION PROJiCTS
AND THESR RELATIONSHIP TO GOVEHNMTNT'S EDUCATION  SETOR DBJECTIVES
R E L E V A N T P R O J E C T C O N T E N T
GOVERNMFSNT ObJECTTVESR
FIRST PROJECT (CRHDIT 305-LBR)                      SECOND PROJECT (LOAN 1266T-L3E)                          PROPOSED ThETD PROJECT
A. QUALITATIVE UPGRADING OF EDUCATION
1. IncreasinEg  upply of appropriately trained
teachers:
(aJ primary level                            ESpaani-eipnpruveme.t: Tea.cher TrainiTg Iuta- r Eupansio/inprueee.nt: Teacher Training Insti-
tu-e (KAKATA-KRTTI)  (Civil Works)                 tuEt  (ZORZOR-ERTTI)  (Civil Works)
(b) secondary level                           training of principuls of multilateral  choolhs                                                         Enpa-s-oc impronveent of WVS Tubman Tacih
sad technical atsistance support fur teaching                                                           Cvllege (equipm-nt cod stuff d-evopment only)
new programa in =altilateral sohols              I                                                     Techricai  a-siutunco supp      o  r   p-ro-rs
(c) Te-hnicaltfVoctiunal                      Technical assi-ncas- support fur technical                                                              (Nose: Glovrcos   1ill provide traming foo
teucher training program baued at LSVTC Yekepa                                                         varl-uu types of aeco-dary and tech.oIigy
teachers in various  inusitutiot iluding
Ynk.pa, ZETTI, KRTTI and W.V.S. Tubhan Teachers
Tuilege)
(d) T-acher TraAcin                           TraininEg o-the-spot of techni-l tear her           Fellpships  to train ur upgrade 10 tracher          Fllowship  to rrain 14 tacher tcainers for
trafiersin Yekpa                                    trainees (ERTT1)                                    W.V.S. Thubma  T-echers Co1l1ge
2. Msking curricula more orelevanseso enviro-   Asaissance tuvards science curriculum  studies         Strengthening  uericulam Development Ul
vent scd manpower needn                       (W.V.S. Tuhman Teachert College)                      Ministry of Education
Erecutiug o new rltilatnral ochool pmragnA          Special sttsetion to technology curricum uod: Pilosieg of newsscevce teahnology cvst-r
training of technulogy tuchersl
3. Improving Ed-oas...sl Testing                                                                       I t.sremghee-g Divissuv of Tea--g in Rivistry
of o dacation
4. Pr-viding su-able  tetbhooks and seaching   SIcense education program    mus at                    Strengthencg of textbook pooducti-
mastrials                                      drvelopmevt of yrototypes at imitable scievce        Ministry of Educasi  
teaching equipment
5. Improviog Teachor-' Salary Scales and          C-oensust .c. laded on thin
Te-vls                                         (Governent has takac tune stes and isc
cidersng further steps ic this direotion fram
pricary to Univ-rsity level)
6. Providing better school huildings              Twl onew mulilateral schools,                        Nev c--ianity schoils is 45 villages,              Fo-r siin-ce r-oh-olcgycenters at etisting
NIe  ollege of Agrsculture aed FPre-sry,             Ensensions tc ZRTTI                                sacosdary schoolt
!ctenusions cc RRTTI1
7. Imprve-d Admnivisesion, Planning and           E-sAblishemet of manpeowr pl-nniog unit (macme                      -                                   Reinforcementofravpower Plannig (micro level
Evaluation                                     level planing),                                                                                         planniEg)
Sv-mngsct-nr- os,uovt'aa  Itac.:mg  nit             Reinforcement of educatioval pla--i    -t Rvoi-ein(rcemeen of edcucaonal puanning (school
rreparation                                         an University plan   =d  -echnical/vo--tionvI pla--Og  capping)
Preya-ti  oofc Ucinerity plan
Psnahltshuems ef project iopsrmctaticm omit         Reinforcement of PIT (Accounanscy, Admi-is-               -s tabilshamc vi Dsis-ivo of Educa-iou.l
(P.l.U1U  (Archlteosure, Accuocnancy,               tration, Procurement                              Aarch-iecturs
Administration, Procurement}                        Assistance towardu Educacional PlanIng
Archicectural Unit
Es-abiluihe-t of tester systems                     Support orevaluaio  of -coveuitpyschools
PeFshiblity study of radio for ducationa
purposes
Study of adminiutratioe re-r-agieution and         Stronoghesing administration i: zeoniacy
ssmengthening of                                                           --inance, personnel, pro ore-   cdaca:on   cimcveicstosd forhnirsi
of Idct...
8. Improving the U--oersicy                                                                          j
(a) staff deveilpment                                                                                                                                  F Felliwships for 1i  talff
--tmna-ud -msmumch on local mstst-s                                                                                                                SolstIce  foe ipvo-ing ia-sor, o-sh -chlols
(c)  Improvingoenedial sernic-,                                                                                                                        Equipmt - audiots..al and rcmedilo  p-ograms
(d) better physical facililnes                  New College of Agriculture and Forestry                                                                Equipment for Unioersity psctnc taching
Equip-emt for U-nvess ty sc_ nce prugraus
and Science Curriculum Denelopeent
B. EXPANSION - RESPONDING TO GEOGAPUICAL
INEQUITIES -
Rmura I epuns ion
Primary                                                                                      Community schuols In 45 vsifsgcs i6
disadvantaged co-n-ies
Seocodary                                M1ittlateal cohols ie Voinjaua and Zwedro                           -                                 Buchanan, Creonville, REbhrtsport, San.iqu-lie,
Scse-c   ech-ology Ceosers (soAr tuned huciog
s  SaEmsqu- li  and bceh-a )
LItomacy pr-foga                                                                             Comeunity Schools Progra  (adult educatio)
C. 5ETTNi URGsNT MANPOTTER REQUIEEMENTS
(a) Porectry and Agriculture                    Expa-sion of training for psf-esiunal              Preparanory cork fur eol-prutssinai                  istahltument of Foestry   Ing Iot   t
agricsulturists and foressers                       forestry trus-oug
fb) Vocational and ISdunstial                   Tusieg of -cufsumen mI l =   Xtaera                rPepuratry evek fur vocasfonal  .rminig               Es-ablihc-mt of Vocasiocal Traiinfg C-t-er and
shl                                                                                                     Ind-utii T-ia raining Breaum -d stncgshonig
of Manpowe  Pos_og Sivi_so



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4 pages
LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER IN LIBERIA
A.   Current Structure of Employment
1.        Employment in the modern sector of the Liberian economy in 1974
is estimated at 210,000. The rest of the economically active population
works in traditional agriculture and trade. The largest employers in the
modern sector are modern agriculture (43%), Government (13%) and mining
and quarrying (10%), with the remaining industries each employing under
10% of the modern sector labor force (see Table 1). Over half of the
occupations lie in the agricultural workers (40%) and the production
workers (25%) categories; of these, skilled workers and craftsmen
account for about 40,400 jobs (19% of total employment). The remainder
of modern sector employment is distributed as follows: professional,
technical and related workers (6%), sales workers (6%), service workers
(5%), clerical workers (5%), administrative and managerial workers (1%),
and 12% in unidentified occupations (see Table 1).
2.        Expatriate employment, an indicator of current shortfalls in
Liberian manpower, was estimated at 28,860, or 14% of the modern sector
labor force, in 1974. Workers from other African countries represented
80% of expatriate employment, with others principally from the USA and
Lebanon comprising the remaining 20% (see Table 2). Expatriates cons-
tituted 37% of sales workers, 19% of administrative and managerial
workers, 18% of both professional, technical and related workers and
production and related workers, and 10% of agricultural workers.
B.   Demand for Manpower in Liberia
3.        The analysis of the demand for manpower in Liberia is based on
preliminary 1974 Census data, the National Development Plan (1976-80),
and employment surveys and studies undertaken by the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs. Basic data on the sectoral and occupation distri-
bution of employment is at a preliminary stage, and will be refined and
updated by the Manpower Planning Unit and by the Census Unit within the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs. In light of this, projections
are based on necessarily rough assumptions as to future rates of increase
in sectoral productivity, replacement requirements, rates of occupational
upgrading and rates of Liberianization, which, when combined with initial
inadequacies in the employment data, can provide only an indicative esti-
mate of future manpower requirements.
4.        Average annual demand for additional workers in the modern sector,
between 1974 and 1982, is estimated at about 14,000, comprising: production
and related workers (28%); agricultural and related workers (27%); professional,



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4 pages
technical and related workers (11%); sales workers (9%); clerical workers
(7%); service workers (6%); administrative, managerial and related workers
(2%); and other unidentifiable occupations (10%) (see Tables 3-6).
5.        Skilled personnel constitute 63% of the 4,070 workers needed in
the production and related workers' category (engaged in mining, manufac-
turing, construction, road maintenance, mechanical trades, and the operation
of transport and other heavy equipment); the rest are unskilled laborers.
6.        The projections take into account the additional manpower require-
ments due to the demands from economic growth (43% of total demand) and
the replacement of existing workers (49%), as well as the needs generated
by the Government's policy of Liberianization (8%).
7.        A growth rate of 4.7% per annum is projected for the modern sector
between 1974 and 1982, based on a revision of the assumptions in the 1976-80
Development Plan, due to delays in scheduled investments in iron mining. It
is estimated that this would lead to a 2.6% per annum growth in modern sector
employment, and the creation of 49,000 new jobs (see Table 4). The growth in
Government activity (5% per year) will provide 26% of the total or 12,800 new
jobs, about 4,400 of these in professional, technical, administrative and man-
agerial positions. The construction industry would grow at 18% per year as
a result of investments in mining and infrastructure (roads, utilities, expan-
sion of port and airport), and provide 4,300 new jobs by 1982, most of them
(58%) for skilled tradesmen and craftsmen. Within modern agriculture, the
main source of growth is in the forestry sector (projected to grow at 9.7%
per year) and in the increased cultivation of rice, cocoa, coffee and oil
palm, providing an additional 6,700 jobs by 1982. Growth in utilities and in
the service sectors (between 6 and 7.4% per annum) will provide an additional
13,700 jobs by 1982 (27% of the total). Expansion of the manufacturing sector
(at about 6% per annum) due to increased processing of local raw materials
such as timber, rubber and sugarcane and increased production of export
oriented manufactures, will create 3,000 additional jobs by 1982, including
about 1,700 for skilled tradesmen and craftsmen. Growth in other miscellan-
eous activities would account for about 8,500 additional jobs.
8.        Manpower requirements due to attrition and Liberianization consti-
tute 49% of total demand. Replacement needs due to attrition are estimated at
3% of the average level of employment. The replacement of the non-Liberians
in the work force is projected on the assumption that Liberianization of the
work force will be 80% completed by 1994.
9.        Monrovia's labor force in 1974 was estimated at 68,000 with 54,000
people actually employed. Most of the unemployed were persons lacking in
skills, but many had a good basic education and were trainable for a wide
range of skills. Projected manpower requirements for Monrovia for 1974-82
are about 5,000 additional workers per year (36% of the national require-
ment), 20% of whom would be skilled workers within the production and related
workers' category (Tables 7, 8).



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4 pages
C.   Educational Characteristics of the Labor Force
10.       Preliminary 1974 Census results indicate that the educational
level has increased markedly since 1962: 17% completed at least first grade
(vs. 9% in 1962), and 8% completed at least 9th grade (vs. 3% in 1962).
Educational level by occupation is highest among administrative and man-
agerial workers where 40% completed at least one year of college, compared
with 22% for professional and technical workers, 10% for clerical workers,
and under 10% for the remaining occupations. Among the 33,600 skilled
workers in the production and related workers' category, 20% had completed
at least one year of high school, a level comparable to that of sales workers
and skilled workers in modern agriculture, but well below that of other
occupations.
11.       The manpower projections assume a certain amount of occupational
upgrading, towards the top three categories, due to training received on
the job and at specialized institutions. This contributes to the general
increase in labor productivity.
D.   Governmental Strategy for Meeting Manpower Needs
12.       The Government's response to the problems of meeting manpower
needs and Liberianizing the work force includes several recent initiatives:
(a) Detailed surveys and analysis of the manpower development
requirements for the economy, including the needs generated
by the program of Liberianization, at the level of individual
firms. This micro-planning is being undertaken by the
Manpower Planning Division of the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs.
(b) General improvement of the efficiency of government employees
through the activities of (a) the Institute of Public Adminis-
tration, which provides courses and consulting services in
organizational methods and management systems, and (b) the
Civil Service Agency, which is reviewing job classifications,
compensation levels and incentive structures.
(c) Establishment of the National Council for Vocational and Tech-
nical Education and Training to coordinate and oversee all voca-
tional and technical education programs. An Agricultural and
Industrial Training Board is being established as an autonomous
body responsible to the NCVTET to coordinate and implement the
various aspects of apprenticeship and training in technical
fields, and a vocational training center will be established in
Monrovia.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4 pages
(d) Agreements with Sierra Leone (Mano River Union) to establish,
among other things, joint training programs to meet both
countries' needs for skilled workers in such areas as forestry,
telecommunications and customs.
(e) Close scrutiny of the training aspects, and general effective-
ness of top-level expatriate employment.
13.       Of a more fundamental and long-term nature are the Government's
measures to orient primary and secondary education towards the teaching
of practical and technical skills through the creation of community
schools, multilateral high schools and science/technology centers, and
to improve the general standards of education at all levels.



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Modern Sector Employment Matrix (Occupation by Industry) for 1974
Transportation              Community             Activities    Total
Agriculture,   Mining                Electricity                    Trade,    Storage and                   and                    not       Employment
Forestry,        and     Manu-            and       Construc-  Restaurants   Communica-        Business  Personal   Govern-  adequately         by
Fishing       QuJarrying  facturing     Water         tion      and Hotels       tions         Services  Services    ment         defined   Occupation
Professional,           440          870         40          120        40              90           100             230      3,370       6,320        530       12,150
Technical and          .5%         4.02%        .49%         9.71%      1.12%           .6%          1 .7%          20.39%   25.7%        23.57%      2.38%         6%
Related Workers
Administrative,         110          240         20           40         20            120            60               50       130       1,460         100       2,350
Managerial and         .1%         1.1%         .27%         3.12%       .58%           .81%         .95%            4.3%        .96%       5.45%      .47%         1%
Related Workers
Clerical Workers      1,020        1,020         60          140         80            510           260             360      1,860       3,990      1,210       10,510
1.1%        4. 7%         .71%       12.02%      2.15%          3.37%         4.23%           32.06%   14.2%       14.8 K.      5.45%        5%
Sales Workers           220          270         50           -          10         11,350            40              70        130          90         690      12,920
.24%       1.2%         .58%                     .27/         74.34%           .64%           6.4%       .96%       .33%       3.11%        6%
Service Workers         480          820         20           50         50            420           100             190      3,020       3,400      1,010        9,560
.5%        3.8%          2 4%        4.1%       1 .2%          2.73%          1.68%          16.92%    23.09%    12.68%        4.57%        5%
Agricultural         82,740          100         40           -          10            260            10               -        230          610       870       84,870 1/
Workers              91.3%          .5%         .53%          -          .35%          1.72%          .21%             -       1.75%      2.29%       3.91%        407
Production, Crafts   4,890        17,690      7,740          850     3,470           1,780         5,430             160      3,420       4,370      3,510       53,310 2/
and Related          5.47%       81.6%      96.1%          70.97%    92.37%          11.69%         P8.67%         14.07%   26.12%    16.327        15.83%       25%
Workers
Occupations Un-         800          670         80           -          80            740           130               60       930       6,560    14,280         24,330
identifiable           .9%         3.1%        1.1%           -        1.97%          4.74%          1.93%           5.88%    7.22%    24.48%        64.28%        12%
Total Employment    90,700        21,680      8,050        1,200     3,760          15,270         6,130           1,120    13,090       26,800    22,200       210,000
by Sector              100%         100%        100%         100%     100%             100%           100%           100%/      100%       100%        100%        100%
% of Total Employ-    43%           10%         4%           1%          2%            7%             3%               1%       6%         13%         10%         1007
ment by sector
Sources: (1) Preliminary Census of Population 1974
(2) "Employment by Occupation and Industry in Liberia, 1962-1982"1, MPEA, 1975                                                                          >
(3) "Manufacturing Industry Directory", Bureau of Industry, Ministry of Education and Commerce, Nov. 1975.
(4) Mission estimates                                                                >c
1/  8% of this category (  6,790 people) represent skilled workers.
2! 63% of this category ( 33,590 people) represent skilled workers and craftsmen.



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Expatriate Employment in Liberia by Occupation and Country of Origin, 1974
Professional                                               Agriculture
Technical    Administrative                                  Forestry   Production
and             and                                         and          and
All        Related        Managerial   Clerical   Sales   Service    Related          Related   Unidentified
Occupations    Workers          Workers      Workers  Workers  Workers    Workers         Workers    Occupations
Total Modern Sector
Employment in              210,000       12,150         2,350         10,510   12,920   9,560         84,870       53,310       24,330
occupational Category
Total Expatriate            28,863        2.211            444            849    4803       387        8 327        9,656         2s8
Employment
Other African Countries    23,132           825             80           557    3,168       273        8,095        8,764         1,370
(Ghana)                 (3,622)        (204)           (16)         (173)    (674)    (36)        (1,372)        (875)        (282)
(Guinea)               (13,407)        (112)          (10)           (77)  (1,647)   (116)        (5,080)      (5,765)        (600)
(Sierra Leone)          (2,858)        (236)           (24)         (188)    (167)    (55)        (1,140)        (843)        (205)
Non-African Countries        5,731        1,386            364            292    1,635      114           232          892          816
(USA)                   (1,196)        (600)           (76)          (98)      (43)    (27)           (48)         (91)        (231)
(Lebanon)               (1,851)         (40)           (53)          (18)  (1,261)    (49)            (21)        (188)       (221)
(Total Expatriate
Employment) f
(Total Modern Sector           14%            1 8%           19%           8%       37%       4%           10%          18%           9%
Employment)
Source: Preliminary 1974 Census Data, MPEA



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Projected Modern Sector Employment Matrix (Occupation by Industry) for 1982
Community            Activities      Total
Agriculture,  Mining                Electricity            Trade, Res-  Transportation                 and                  not       Employmtnt
Forestry         and     Manufac-       and      Constru.-  taurants      Storage and   Business  Personal   Govern-  Adequately         by
Fishing      Quarrying   turing       Water         tion   and Hotels   Communications Services  Services    ment         defined    Occupation
Professional,       540             970         60         190        110        150            180           380      5,400    11,200         720       19,900
Technical and                                                                                                                                             77/
Related Workers
Administrative,    110              320         30          60         60        190            100            90        200      2,370         140       3,670
Managerial and                                                                                                                                            1.4%
Related Workers
Clerical Workers 1,180            1,080       120          210        210        780            420           530      2,740     6,490       1,650       15,410
6.0%
Sales Workers       230             390         90          10         20      15,520             50          110        170        13Q         940      17,660
6.8%
Service Workers    490            1,080        30           70         90        580            150           280      4,040     5,020       1,380       13,210
5.)%-
Agricultural    88,960              100         60           -         30        370              20           -         310        900       1,190      91,940
Wc,kers                                                                                                                                                  35.5h
Production,      5,270          17,600    10,580         1,100     7,390       2,440          7,850           220      4,550     6,460       4,810       68,270
Crafts and                                                                                                                                               26.4%
Related Workers
Occupations Un-    660              140        50            -        150        870             80            10         90      7,030     19,550       28,630
identifiable                                                                                                                                             11.1%
Total Employment97,440          21,680    11,020         1,640     8,060      20,900          8,850         1,620    17,500    39,600       30,380      258,690
by Industry
% of Total       37.7%           8.4%       4.3%          .6%       3.1%       8.1Z           3.4%           .6%       6.8%      15.3%        11.7%       100%
Employment by
Industry
Note: Some upgrading was assumed towards the first 3 occupational categories.  Otherwise, occupational
distribution by sector are similar to the 1974 matrix.
Source: (1) Tables 1 and 2



LIBERIA; THIRD EDUCATT0I' P?ROJECT
Projected Modern Sector Employment in 1982, by Sector
1974
Modern    1974-1982                                                % of Total
Sector!/   Sectoral    Annual Growth    Required       Additonal  Additional
Employ-    GrowthJ]    in Demand 3    1982 Employ-    Workers    Workers
Sector                  ment         Rate        for Labor         ment         Required  Required
Modern Agriculture               90,700     1.3             .9          97,440          6,74o        14%
Mining and Quarrying             21,680       0             0           21,680             -
Manufacturing                     8,050     6.0            4.0          11,020          2,970         6%
Utilities                         1,200     7.0            4.o           1,640            440         1%
Construction                      3,760    18.0           10.0           8,o60         4,300          9%
Trade, Restaurants               15,270     6.o            4 0          20.900          5,630        12%
and Hotels
Transport Storage and             6,130     7.4            4.7           8,850         2,720          6%
Communication
Business Services                 1,120     7.4            4.7           1,620            500         1%
Community, Social and            13,090     6.o            3.7         17,500          4,41o          9%
Personal Services
Government                       26,800     5.0            5.0          39 600        12,800         26%
Activities not ade-              22,200     6.o            4.0          30,380         8,180         16%
quately defined                          _
Total Modern Sector             210,000     4.7            2.6        258,690         48,690        100%
Employment
Sources: (1) Preliminary Census of Population, 1974, MPEA    1/ Based on Source (1)  and Mission estimates   .
(2) National Socio-Economic Development Plan, MPEA  2/ From projections in Source (2) revised in
(3) hconomic Survey of Liberia, 1974 ar, 1975, 1FLA    accordance with current developments.
3/ Mission estimates, based on Sources (2), (3) and
other data.



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Avera6e Annual Demand for Labor over the Period 1974-1982
1/               2/   Yearly 3/    Total 4/
Average         Yearly -    Liberiani-   Yearly Man-    Distribution
Occupational              1974            198 2            Yearly      Replacement    zation Re-   power                    by
Category                Stock      Requirements   Reguirements   Requirements   quirements   Requirements    Occupation
Column Number              (1)              (2)             (3)             (4)            (5)              (6)               (7)
Professional, Technical         12,150        19,900              970             480              90            1,540              11%
and Related Workers
Administrative, Managerial    2,350             3,670              160              90             20              270               2%
and Related Workers
Clerical Workers                10,510        15,410               610            390              30            1,030               7%
Sales Workers                   12,920        17,660               590            460             190            1,240               9%
Service Workers                  9,560        13,210               460            340              20              820               6%
Agricultural Workers            84,870         91,940              880          2,650             340            3,870              27%
Production, Crafts and         53,310         68,270            1,870           1,820             380            4,070              28%
Related Workers
Occupations unidentifiable   24,330           28,630               550            800              90            1,440              10%
Total                         210,000        258,690            6,o0o           7,030           1,160           14,280             100%
Distribution of Sources                                             43%             49%              8%            100%
of Total Yearly Demand
for Manpower
Sources:  (1) Tables 2, 3 and 4
Notes:  1 / f (2) - (127 .8F1
2/Replacement needs were estimated at 3% of the average level of employment [   ((1) + (2)) .7 .03
3/ Full replacement of 3o% of expatriate personnel expected in 20 yrs., from 1974 -
4/ (3) + (4) + (5)



LIBERIA; THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                        ANNEX 3
Demand for Skilled Workers in the Trades and Supervisory Personnel                          Table 6
(Potential Output from Vocational Training Center)
Column Number:                  (1)             (2)          (3)            (4)         (5)        (6)         (7)         (8)
l9~~~4  ~ ~    ~      -~~82                              Yearly
Production +                  Prolcuotion +               Average   Replace-   Liberiani-
ISCO                              Related                      Related         1982       Yearly    ment         zation       Overall
Classifi-                         Workers         1974         Workers        Require-   Require-  Require-   Require-    Yearly
cation          Occupation      ISCO 7/8/9 -      Stock'    ISCO 7/8/9A/   ments 2/   ments 3/  menis 4/   ments 5/    Demand 6/
General:                             4.95          2,640          4.74         3,240           70        90          20         ?80
700 Production Sup. and             (4.95)                        (4.74)
Foreman
Mechanical Trades:                  25.83         13,770          25.52       17,420         460        470        100        1,030
831 Blacksmiths                      (.59)                         (.67)
832 Toolmakers                       (.01)                         (.01)
833 Machine Tool Setter Operators  (.16)                           (.18)
835 Metal Grinders, Polishers        (.04)                         (.04)
839 Blacksmiths and Machine          (.24)                         (.23)
tool Operators not else-
where classifed (N.E.C.)
841 Machine Fitters, Assemblers    (.36)                           (.43)
843 Motor Vehicle Mechanics         (2.19)                        (2.01)
849 Mechanics and Fitters (NEC)   (8.33)                          (8.25)
871 Plumbers, Pipe Fitters           (.99)                        (1.01)
872 Welders, Flame Cutters          (2.13)                        (2.11)
873 Sheet Metal Workers              (.26)                         (.25)
874 Structural Metal Preparers       (.01)                         (.02)
985 Motor Vehicle Drivers          (10.52)                      (10.31)
Electrical Trades:                      2.71            1,440         2.75         1,870           50       50           10         110
850 Electricians and Related        (2.71)                       (2.75)
workers
Construction Trades:                    8.51            4,54o         8.99        6,140           200     160            50        410
930 Painters                        (1-59)                        (1.69)
951 Brick-layers, Masonry           (1.7)                         (1.56)
and related workers
952 Reinforced Concrete and         (.37)                          (.29)
Related Workers
954 Carpenters                     (3.87)                         C4,32)
955 Plasterers                      (.02)                          (.02)
959 Construction (N.E.C.)          (1.15)                         (1.09)
TOTAL                  42%            22,390           42%       28,670           780      770         180       1,730
Total Employment in                100%             53,310         100%       68,270        1,870    1,820          380       4,070
Occupational Category
(ISCO 7/8/9)
Source: (1) Employment by Occupation and Industry in Liberia 1962-1982, MPEA, October 1975
(2) Table 5
1/ Occupational distributions taken from Source (1)
2/ om table5
3/ (4) - (2)J 4 8
s/ Assumed to be 3% of average total employment by occupation:U(2) + (4))   2J  .03
5/ Liberianization of 80% of expatriates assumed in 20 years from 1974.
6/ (5) + (6) + (7)



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Projection of Monrovia's Labor Force Requirements by Sector
1974-1982
Average
1974       % of         Sectoral    Employment    1982                 Annual
Employ-    Total        Growth      Growth        Employ-    Total    Additional
ment       Employment   Rates       Rates          ment       Needs    Jobs
Agriculture               1,84          3.4         1.3            .9        1,980
Mining                    1,080         2.0         0             0          1,080
Manufacturing             3,890         7.2         6.0           4.0        5,320
Electricity/water         1,190         2.2         7.0           4.o        1,630
Construction              2,380         4.4        12.0           8.0        4,400
Trade                    12,610        28.9         6.o           4.0       17,300
Restaurants/Hotels        1,130         2.1         6.o           4.0        1,550
Trans./Communications     4,480         8.3         7,4           4.7        C),)70
Business Services         1,180         2.2         7.4          /.7         1,700
Government               13,500        25.0         5.0           5.0       19,950
Other Personal and
Community Services     10,720        14.3         6.o          3.7        14,400
54,ooo       100%          4.7          4. 3      75,760      21,760    2,720
Source:  "Employment and Unemployment in Monrovia.  A report on the Monrovia Labor Force Surveys in
January and June 1974", MPEA, April 1975.  The June survey is used for the distribution of
employment by sector, as the report expresses more confidence in these results than in the
January survey.                                                                                          d3
CD 
--1 



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS BY OCCUPATION IN MONROVIA, 1974-1982
Net                    Annual
Require-    Average      Replace-
Required           ments        Annual        ment         Annual         Annual
1974             1982             Over  1/   Addition    Require-    Liberiani         Require-
Stock    %      Stock      %    Period-    al Jobs -    ments             zation        mentq s     %
Professional and       5,940  (11)   9,050    (13)    3,Q10 o490                   240            4n             770    (15)
Technical Workers
Administrative and       540   (1)   1,510       (2)      970         120           30             10                     (3)
Managerial Workers
Clerical               6,480  (12)   9,850      (13)    3,370         420          24o            30            690    (13)
Sales                 10,800  (20) 14,390    (19)    3,590            450          380           150            980    (19)
Service                7,020  (13)   9,o0o      (12)    2,070         260          240           180             680    (13)
Agricultural, Fac-       540   (1)      740      (1)      220          30           20             -              50      (1)
tory and Related
Workers
Production, Opera-   18,900  (35) 25,760        (34)    6,M6o         860          670           140          1,670     (32 )
tors, Laborers and
Related
Occupations Un-        3,780   (7)  4,550       (6)       770          90          120            20            230       (4)
identifiable
TOTAL          54,000        75,760            21,760       2,720        1,940            570          5,23C    (ioo)
Notes:  1/ Column (2) - Column (l)
2/ LColumn (2) - Column (1)7  . 8
3/ l (Column (2) - Column (17)+ j x .03 - A 3%/annum replacement rate is assumed.
T/ Mission estimate~ 80% of expatriate positions liberanized by 1994,
Source:  (1)  "Employment and Unemployment in Monrovia", MPEA, April 1975.                                                m x
(2)  Table 7                                                                                                    co



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6 pages
LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
ITS FINANCING AND DEVELOPMENT
1.        The State, through the Ministry of Education (see Organizational
Structure, Chart 1), prescribes curricula and textbooks for all levels,
compulsory school attendance (currently ages 6-16), examinations at the
end of grades 9 and 12, and the conditions for the licensing of teachers.
The State-prescribed structure of the education system (see Chart 2) is
currently six primary grades (with one or two "pre-grade" preparatory
classes in some schools), followed by three junior high and three senior
high grades. The system comprises public schools, mission (church) schools,
and private (concessionaire or private entrepreneurial) schools. The
Ministry controls elementary, junior high, senior high, technical and adult
education; it also controls teacher training and is generally responsible
for higher education. All instruction is in the English language, whereas
the people of the various districts speak their own languages. Most of
the children entering school spend a year or two acquiring a knowledge of
English in the pre-grade I classes.
2.        The distribution of enrollment by grade level and type of insti-
tution in 1974 is shown in Chart 3. In 1975 the global statistical situ-
ation was as follows:
Number   Number of
Schools   Teachers         %        Students
Number      %       of       full time  Qualified        per
Level        Enrolled  Female  Centers  equivalent   Teachers    Teacher
Primary       157,821    36       891       4,554        28           35
Secondary      32,978    25       334       1,268                     26
Junior       22,605    27       231         788        70  1/        -
Senior       10,373    22       103         480        46  2/        -
Technical         735    15         1          49         n.a.        15
Vocational        840    -          5         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
Primary           398    20         2          53         n.a.         7
Teacher Training
University      1,984    21         1         150        50           13
Cuttington        350    20         1         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.
College (1974)
1/   A minimum of 2-4 years of College
2/   A minimum of B.A. or BSc.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6 pages
Primary and Secondary Levels
3.        The outstanding problems of primary level education are the
shortage of school places in rural areas, shortage of textbooks, suitable
buildings and trained teachers and the irrelevance of curricula to Liberian
circumstances. These problems are being eased by on-going activities with
regard to the community schools program, the expansion of the two Rural
Teacher Training Institutes, Kakata (KRTTI) and Zorzor (ZRTTI), and the
shortening of their courses, the planned in-service teacher training project,
and the curriculum development and testing projects. A more precise identi-
fication of future additional requirements will be possible after the eval-
uation of the community schools program and the feasibility study of educa-
tional radio broadcasting have been completed under the second project.
4.        At secondary level the problems include the orientation of
curricula towards USA models, low academic standards and a shortage of
suitable places, especially in rural areas. The integrated approach to
a solution therefore includes expansion in rural areas, with an emphasis
on improvement: curricula are being made more practical and technical,
laboratory work in science is being emphasized, and exploratory courses
in technology for the lower cycle are being introduced. These measures
are expected to increase the range of career possibilities for secondary
school dropouts and graduates. The production of trained graduate teachers
is being increased through expansion and improvement of the Teachers College;
in-service courses are being conducted in critical subject areas such as
science and will be intensified for basic subjects (English and Mathematics);
teams of subject specialists are being recruited to help with supervising
and developing their special subject areas; and, in cooperation with the
West African Examinations Council, the examinations system is being
strengthened to play a more influential role in graduation requirements.
The Ministry has prepared a full inventory of existing school places and
is planning rebuilding requirements and preparing a school map. Physical
facilities for science/technology are being given priority.
Technical and Vocational Education
5.        Technical education is provided at the Booker Washington Institute
on a 3-year post-grade 8 course, which is often followed by one year for the
high school diploma. The fields covered are agriculture, auto mechanics,
building and electrical trades, machine shop, secretarial science, home
economics and bookkeeping. Equipment is being upgraded, and a project for
possible USAID financing is being prepared to improve instructional programs
generally and relate them better to employment requirements.
6.        The public technical education activities at Yekepa (Liberian-
Swedish Vocational Training Center - LSVTC) and at Klay (Basic Crafts Center)
are being reviewed. At Yekepa the principal user of graduates, LAMCO, still
maintains its own training programs; consequently the LSVTC is being converted
into a multilateral type secondary school which LAMCO will construct for the
Ministry of Education. The Klay Center is expected to be strengthened by the



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6 pages
addition of agriculture to its current basic building, mechanical and
electrical trades. The technical teacher training program initiated under
the first education project (Credit 305-LBR) at the LSVTC would be continued,
but no decision has been taken as to where it will be conducted -- whether
at the University, the Booker Washington Institute or the proposed VTC in
Monrovia. In order to cope with existing and future demands for new skilled
personnel and upgrading of existing skilled workers, the Government plans
to establish a vocational training center in Monrovia.
Adult Education
7.        In 1970, it was estimated that 27.9% of women and 67.1% of men in
the age group 15-19 were literate and in the age group 20-24 the respective
percentages were 11.3 and 55.3. For successively higher age groups, the
percentage of literate men declined gradually to 8.5 for the 60-64 group,
whereas for the literate women the percentage fell to 7 or less for all
groups 25 years and over. The age distribution of this low level of
literacy accurately reflects the history of formal educational activity in
Liberia, which, until recent years, was concentrated around Monrovia and
Maryland County. Thus, in the Government's policy of total involvement
and rural development these high illiteracy levels, especially in rural areas
and among women, have loomed as formidable obstacles to the information and
training efforts of the staff of various ministries in the fields of health,
agriculture, home economics, vocational skills and community leadership.
In the period 1971-74 the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for
literacy, established 24 adult literacy centers in rural primary schools,
offering free instruction and related materials to 600 adults. The
Ministry of Education under the second project (Loan 1266T-LBR) is
strengthening its supervisory staff transport facilities and audio-visual
aids to cope with an expanded effort, and the Government is preparing a
proposed USAID project for teaching basic skills to adults in rural areas.
Higher Education
8.        A development plan for the University of Liberia has been prepared
which has as its main thrust an improvement in quality. The principal goals
of the plan are to (a) restrict growth in the intake of new students to
about 5% per year and curtail the introduction of new programs; (b) improve
the screening of the incoming students, especially those entering science-
based programs; (c) improve the remedial services, especially in mathematics
and science; (d) involve the University more in research on important national
concerns, especially in agriculture, forestry and education; and (e) upgrade
the teaching staff through increased training opportunities and an improved
salary structure. It is hoped that these measures will reduce student attri-
tion rates and produce an actual enrollment growth of about 8-9% per year
over the period 1976-87, with the highest priority for increase going to the
secondary teacher training college, which would rise from 153 students or 9%
of university enrollment in 1975 to 360 or 12% in 1981 and to 682 or 16% in



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6 pages
1987. It is doubtful whether a reduction in attrition could be so readily
achieved, and the projected overall growth rate of 11% per year over the
period 1976-83 is unrealistic in view of the lead time necessary to select
and train university professors in the required numbers. It would also be
advisable for Government to request the preparation of a development plan
by Cuttington College so that the full manpower implications for the
country as a whole can be studied before finalizing positions on university
growth. The demand for trained secondary school teachers offers strong
justification, however, for a rapid expansion of the Teachers College (see
Table 1).
Public Financing
General
9.        In 1975, 89% of Government expenditure for education and training
was channelled through the budget of the Ministry of Education. Other more
modest allocations were made to the Institute of Public Administration for
administrative and clerical training (1.7%), to the Ministry of Health for
health education and training (1.5%), to the Ministry of Labor for vocational
training (1.2%), to the Ministry of Agriculture for rural development, home
economics and agricultural extension (2.1%), and to a newly created agency,
Action for Development Progress. Other miscellaneous grants account for
the balance (4.5%) of the country's education and training budget (see
Table 1). The US$17.5 million provided for all education and training in
1975 represented 15% of the national budget.
10.       Within the US$13.3 million recurrent budget of the Ministry of
Education for 1975, the allocations to subsectors were as follows: central
administration, 11.4%; school supervision, 3.6%; primary education, 27.1%;
secondary education, 7.6%; primary teacher training, 5.3%; higher eduation
including scholarships, 28.8%; non-formal education, 1.2%; and curriculum
and material development, 0.2%. The budget for capital expenditures was
US$2.2 million (see Table 3).
Primary and Secondary School Financing
11.       At public primary and secondary schools no fees are imposed by
the state. The Local Primary School Committees, occasionally acting on
behalf of parents, impose small charges of one or two dollars per pupil
for supplies, building repairs or an additional teacher. The Central
Government provides teachers and supplies and, occasionally, materials for
building repairs. In 1975, less than 3% of primary level expenditure and
less than 4% of secondary school expenditure were for supplies. In 1975
the Central Government spent US$32 per pupil in public rural primary
schools and US$70 per pupil in the relatively privileged Monrovia school
system, and provided US$151,000 to subsidize private primary schools,
principally in Monrovia. At secondary level the expenditure was US$106
per pupil in public rural schools and US$116 in Monrovia, of which roughly
US$5 went into materials and supplies. Private secondary schools received
US$286,000 in subventions, principally in Monrovia.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6 pages
Teacher Training, Technical, Vocational and Higher Educatio
12.       The budgetary allocation for primary teacher training in 1975 was
US$704,000. The average cost per student at the Zorzor Teacher Training
Institute was $970. The average cost per student at Kakata is uncertain,
because of the prevalence of ad hoc in-service training activities and in-
volvement in curriculum development. At the Booker Washington Institute,
which is residential, the allocation averaged US$730 per student and was
inadequate to finance a sufficient amount of equipment and supplies. Sub-
ventions to private vocational efforts amounted to US$133,000. Cuttington
College received US$48,000. The University of Liberia received US$2,563,000,
or US$1,290 per student (88% of the cost), and student fees of US$75 per
semester contributed the balance of the University's operating budget.
Financing of Private Educaton
13.       Most of the private schools are in Monrovia.  Certain mission and
entrepreneurial schools receive state subsidies. In 1974, state subsidies
to individual private elementary schools ranged from US$160 to $26,712; for
individual private secondary schools the range was from US$100 to $50,000.
Mission schools receive some grants from their respective churches. Conces-
sion schools receive grants from the concessionaires. However, depending
upon the extent of such forms of support and upon the standards of the par-
ticular school, the annual fees for the operation of private schools range
from US$10 to $250 per student. Data on their financing are not available
because no survey has been undertaken even in the case of those receiving
state subsidies. Their operational costs, however, are likely to be more
rather than less than public school costs. Even at 1974 public school per
capita costs, the 63,889 pupils in private primary and secondary schools
would have cost US$2.7 million, or 68% of the comparable public school
budget.  This large industry has grown in response to a demand which the
public sector has failed to meet if terms of both quantity and quality,
and it benefits principally the relatively better off urban and concession
residents.
General Observations
14.       The problems of quality which beset the education system have
originated in the under-financing of the system at all levels in terms of
percentages of GNP and of total Government budget allocation to public
education, which are among the lowest in Africa. Significant improvements
in quality of the type needed to make the system coritribute effectively
to Liberia's development will come from some of the projects now being pre-
pared and implemented with financing provided by USAID, ADB and the Bank Group
and by the Government. The draft education plan estimates that by 1985 about
20% of the budget would be allocated to education. A modest increase in
teaching salaries to make them competitive is within relatively easy reach,
especially if combined with resonable adjustments in pupil-teacher ratios.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6 pages
A review of financing of education would be an essential element in the
finalizing of the education plan and certain important points could be ex-
plored:
(a) a deliberate effort to equalize expenditure at each level
on rural in relation to urban pupils;
(b) an improvement in the level of teachers' salaries vis-a-vis
other professions and establishment of regular scales and
fixed criteria for appointment to these scales;
(c) planning the development of subsectors in such a way as to
show clearly the expenditure policies required (such as
percentage or per capita allocations for materials, supplies,
maintenance, personnel, etc.) and the changing subsectoral
distribution of expenditure;
(d) policy guidelines on criteria for subsidies to private schools
(including qualifying standards for receiving subsidies and
periodic review of eligibility, etc);
(e) a target date for arriving at a reasonable percentage of the
national budget allocated to education and showing the annual
progress toward the desired level.



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
A PROJECTION OF SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
(University Graduates)
GRADUATE TEACHERS REQUIRED          Stock of Liberian        A i                Output
PROJECTED ENROLL _ _NT       Grades 7-9    Grades 10-12               Graduates with Teach- among traine           of           Net        Trained
Grades        Grades        (1:120 257o    1:25 (total               er Education Serving  teachers*           Training                    teachers
Grades       Grades       of total          needs)         TOTAL   in Secondary Schools                    Institutions   Addition    as 7 of
7-9           10-12       __,~staff           __       _           _____________       _                   ____stock
1974 Actual    17,815           8,090              148            324          472                                             (a)    (b)         -            -
1975 Actual    22,600          10,373              188            415           603            220                   18        20                 2           36-5
1976            26,000         12,000              217            480           697            222                   18        20                 2           31-9
1977            30,000         13,500              250            540           790            224                   18        30                12           28-4
1978            34,000         15,000              283            600          883             236                   19        40                21           26-7
1979            38,000         16,700             317             668          985             257                  21        40                 19           26-1
1980            42,000         18,500             350             740        1,090             276                   17        50                33           25-3
1981            46,000        20,000               383            800        1,183             309                   19        50                31           26^1
1982            51,000        21,500              425             860        1,285             340                   20        60                40           26-4
1983            56,000        23,000              467             920        1,387             380                  23         70        30      77           27.4
1984            61,000        25,000              508           1,000        1,508             457                  27         80        40      93           30-3
1985            67,000        27,000              558           1,080        1,638             550                  22         90        50    118            33-6
1]986           73,000        29,000              608           1,160        1,768             668                  26        100        60    134            37-8
1987            79,000        31,000              658           1,240        1,898             802                  32        11]0       60    138            42-3
1988            86,000        33,500              717           1,340        2,057             940                  38        120        70    152            45-7
1989            93,000        36,000              775           1,440        2,215           1,092                  44        130        80     166           49-3
1990            97,000        39,000              808           1,500        2,368           1,258                  50        140        90    180             53-1
(a) from the regular 4 year course
(b) from special vacation courses for graduates without professional training (in-service training)                                                                   F x
*  8% to 1980, 6% to 1985, 4% after 1985                                                                                                                             n  ,
Source: Mission Projections



ANNEX, 4
LIBERIA': TEIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                      Table 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
Budgeted Expenditures on Education and Training
by the Government of Liberia (in $L)
of                       of
1975         Total       1976/77       Total
Institute of Public Adminis-              296,468        1.7        378,739        1.8
tration
Central Administration                  129,087                   117,388
Instruction                             167,381                   261,351
Ministry of Justice                       136,655          .9       155,456         .8
National Public Safety                  116,829                   135,316
Institute
Training Fire Fighting                   19,826                    20,140
Services
Ministry of Education                 15,504,392         88.8    18,959,107       90.9
Ministry of Health and                    269,538         1.5       278,540        1.3
Social Welfare
Health Education                         44,796                    39,753
Tubman National Institute of            217,624                   227,783
Medical Arts
Laboratory Training Program               7,100                    11,004
Ministry of Labor, Youth and              2o4,lol         1.2       195,192         .9
Sports
General Vocational Training              94,164                    94,192
Program
Klay Basic Craft Project                109,937                   101,000
Ministry of Public Works                   23,950          .2        29,830         .2
Hiring of Students during
School Vacation
Ministry of Action for Development          7,507                     8,700
and Progress
Educ. Services (Urban and Rural           7,507                     8,700
Development Schemes)
Ministry of Planning and Economic           8,437                    15,400         .1
Affairs
Education Unit                            8,437                    15,400



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
of                       of
1975         Total       1976/77       Total
Central Government                        635,000         3.6        358 000       1.7
Rents (Ministry of Edu-                 335,000                     48 000
cation)
Pensions (Ministry of                   200,000                   210,000
Education)
Kwendin Vocational Training             100,000                    100,000
Project
Ministry of Agriculture                   371,389         2.1        475,158       2.3
Agricultural Extension Training           8,625                      8,895
Center
General Extension Services              362,764                   399,533
(Including Home Economics
Teachers)
Forestry Training Activities                                        66,730
Total                    17,457,437       100       20,854,122     100
Source: Budget of the Government of Liberia. 1975, 1976/77.



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Structural Analysis of the Budget of the Ministry of Education
(in $L)
of                              of                                                         of                            of
Total                           Total                         %                            Total                         Total                          %
Recurrent          Recurrent           Capital       Capital          Total         of         Recurrent       Recurrent        Capital       Capital           Total        of
Expenditure        Expenditure        Expenditure  Expenditure         Budget      Total       Expenditure   Expenditure   Expenditure  Expenditure              Budget    Total
Category                    1975                197975 1975 75                                   1975       BulRet        1976/77         1976/77         1976/77       1976/77          1976/77    Budget
Total Budget                    13,288,363            100            2,216,029         100           15,504,392    100..        16,885,986          100         2,073,121        100           18,959,107    100.
Central Administration           1,508,816             11.4            420,733          19.0          1,929,549       12.4       1,405,959  2/        8.3         412,290         19.9          1,818,249        9.6,
Supervis;on                        483,390              3.6                _                            483,390        3.1         479,636            2.8           5,875           .4            485,511        2.6
Primary Education                3,594,538 1/          27.1            454,300  I/    20.5            4,048,838       26.1      4,794,685  1/        28.4         752,800 1/    36.3            5,547,485       29.3
Eecondary Education              1,947,229             i4.7            600,6i4          27.1          2,547,843       10.4       2,857,450          1I.9          3i4,900         15.2          3,172,350       16.7
Secondary Level Vocational and 1,010,729                7.6               8,835           .4          1,0.19,564       6.6       1,347,803            8.0          27,856          1.3           1,375,659       7.3
Technical Education
Teacher Training                   704,203  1/          5.3             223,164  1/    10.1             927,367        6.0         699,841  1/        4.1         204,000  1/    9.8               903,841       4.8
Higher Education                 2,624,583             19,8             508,383         22.9          3,132,966       20.2       3,623,682           21.5         355,400         17.1           3,979,082      21.0
(University of
Liberia)
Non-fonmal Education               172,626              1.3                                              172,626       1.1         248,836  2/        1.5                                           248,836      1.2
Curriculum Material                  30,355               .2                                              30,355        .3          35,000              .2                                          35,000         .2
Development
Scholarships                     1,211,894              9.0                                           1,211,894        7.8       1,393,094            8.3                                        1,393,094       7.3
1/ The Community Schools Program was reallocated from Teacher Training to Primary Education.
2/ The funds for the West Africa Examination Council was reallocated to Central Administration from Non-formal Education.
Note:  (A)  The Government of Liberia's contribution to the First World Bank Project ($L 1,277,899 in 1975 and $L 670,000 in 1976/77) and the Second World Bank Project (SL 480,000 in
1976/77) were allocated to the various categories according to the nature of the project components. The contribut ons are considered Capital Expenditures.
(B) Expenditures on equipment and construction of a non-recurrent nature are considered Capital Expenditures.
Source:  (1)  "The Budget of the Government of Liberia for 1975," Bureau of the Budget, 1975.
(2)  "The Budget of the Government of Liberia for 1976/77," Bureau of the Budget, 1976.



I



ANNEX 4
Chart1
LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
November 1976
|             MticOlT onls Ed.-...
Asisn                                   ps1crmse
Mtnlster's~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnse to
Administrative                                for Instruction                                                                  t., Education-i
Legal~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~lno  andg|  
Assistant                 ~~~~Mi--tefo I.,sstn                                                         Mr-wte f.r               t1PrjctIple-ntw- Unit
H ghe, Edut. t i- o n                  Min lste                            Sc'... e    and Tech-                                                        Pl    g Min-Fterdf o, Research  -    Adm,nst ron
R, esearch                                                                                    _        _                                           3 Adcoun2 c
PiAdult.  Scgen4ePt.Planning.4 Procurement
Education                        1   EduCation-1    F-nanc.                                                      Ed-acilts on f              _
Physical                             TechnIC.1                                                                   i
Educat-on                            Edl-at-on            |                 Personnel                           Platinoc
EduCatlon.                           EConmc ..  -                          Trattpo .-                             esac
IS-codary             I                Radiot,                               A dinterna                           c- Curslm
Edu.c...                             Ed..                                                                         .1E          U     AssiSrDypment
| .   |           I                        I            j  ~~~~~~~~~Agency
Edu atl    l              ~~~~~Infoa-o '-                        L,b-ay               jC_mmissin  
# |  c  on      f           | ~~~~~OffiCe                              eve                                lf. Unesco
i |  Elementary                                                                                                 P,d.           E  tEeProect
r    Educaoior  B                                                                                                                                                        5662E
| Tesing and       
|                                                                            * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Nw  Arran.g-men
I   I                                                                           0      M  It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%te, for ||.,gto  U It
-L  R= 7arh Id                             dinsrto
I Toacher                                                                                                    f                                         2 ACC-,nt
n  Pilacement           |                                                                                           Di--                               3 Procurem--
C. |    Ziet, S.__                                                                                                           _          _
Communit S     chool |- -dL9
M -- Moroi Conslidated                                                                                                                 UI-t A-site
|School System          W|g b  h   rsc






LIBERIA
STRUCTURE OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM - 1976                                                                                               ANNEX 4
Chart 2
Junior                        Senror
Eleree-yro Schools                       H,gh Sceo.lr                   H.gh School-                                 H,gher Ed-c,-_on
BWl                                       Se.ors-
10  11  12           13        1-IrHgh Schoo
PIt  Vo elt,cci                                                       } Tocorrulogy
Course
JFK Hoscrral
Pr ofes conal
Cor-ngtyon College
13  4   1       16        BSc loursong                                lHtalth
15       1        17       1             _1   Medro ne
L SV T.C
10ct   11-       12                              15      16       17S      BSc Engo,--oc,g                      }Technology
BA-- _c Sc eco SoCra Sorcs                  }G
(.1- Theollgy
Cuttnogton Collegel
Fu T-m
LLB 
LP-r T m                                  nvriyo                      a
-         E              ,     ~~~~~~ ~~LroerlaJ
l                     E        3     -  ~~~~~~Agric E.t-ns,- T--nig Centr          
BOc ,Ag-.lct-c or Fore-ly                      Agr-c
|   Foree Worker                               3         ~          Uo.cersrty 1 f Lberlat                         F.-t
10  11>                            _ 13F14 oresr Ranger } Fo-e-ry T.aoeg Ceter
B6 A Eus       Public Adm,- strat oe
or Ecnro  Low  ofLrber-
BA BSc Edooarl-
15  16  UO      tof  ter  orpn  
13      1     Taor       ro         CrCRTTI                                        T-Chlg
Ed-ct-o
T-aher , Ce, t f icat
KRTTI
G-ade    IP)       1        2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9            10      Jt       12             13       14       15      16       17       18      19
11111!                                i                i  I  i                        i  i  i                                  i I                       i  i  i
Age    (4-6)       7        8       9       10       11       12      13      14       15           16       17      18              19      20       21      22       23       24      25
Worrld Bnk-9802






LIBERIA
1974 SCHOOL ENROLLMENT PYRAMID (by grade)
c-      >         o
I   SENIOR HIGH  sclOOLS & HIGHER EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                                                          4th yr.
3rd yr.
2trd yr,
1 Y-or
C.orea  4th yr.  12t yr
3,d yr.  3rd yr.
2od yr   2d yr._
3.000             2.500             2,000             1.500             1,000              500                0                500              1,000             1,00             2,000             2.500              3,000
G RADES 1-9
4
3
Elemr.               _ Sllllll_ 
30,000            25,000            20,000            15,000            10,000             5,000               0              5,000             10,000            15,000             20,000            25,000            30,000
KEY
53 Uo,  & &n                                        Votrrrrl Course        senor H-gh School Forolto*             Elererturv & Junior Hiqh  Level Enrollmheot
Sources (lv Srot,tr,cr D-i-n  B...urea- Pl--oog & R-searcht
(hl Reorrtry CrllnqrorrW Cclleqr                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tt   
(ci Reyvtrs Rural Terchor Training lnstttUlcs                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank -9842                   03 P.



A



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TEACHER TRAINING REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET BY SPECIAL GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS
Staff    MitiuEnol lant                         Schedule             Place of                                                        Special Policies
Origin of               Staff               out              required                             of                       Trainers           Recruitment level                or
Need                 to be              Output          (allowing for             of                Training                                 of  Trainees           Measures Needed
Required                     ~~~~~Training                                                                         MesuesNege
Trained           Reurdattrition)
Vocational Training
Center:
(a) Instructors    As determined by   As determined    February 1977 -              LSVTC           LSVTC staff
for Yekepa Multi-  Ministry of           by Ministry of   December 1978
lateral School      Education            Education
(b) additional            8                  10           January 1978 -         TAMCO and           LAMCO and           about 'C" level
instructors for   (depending on                           June    1979       , ALSVTC                ISVCO and               of          level
VTC (about 8-10    number to be                               (stage 1)                               LSVTC staff             of skill
available from      earmarked for                         July    1979 -             VTC                                "C" level of skill
LSVTC)             transfer from                         December 1979         (attached to                            with some pedago-
LSVTC)                                 (stage 2)          experienced         VTC staff           gical training
staff)
Science Ter hnology   Graduate scienc                                           February 1977-       W.V.S. Tubman       Teachers College   Secondary School          Special scholarship
Centers               teachers                 15                  23           December 1980    I Teachers               staff               graduates                program to be arranged
(B.Sc.Ed.)                                                                    College                                                           by the Ministry of
Education together with
special recruiting efforts
Non-graduate                                              December            Kakata Rural        Staff of KRTTI       Serving trained          Seminar/workshop of this
science teachers|        15                 20           vacations 1977       Teacher Training  Cuttington             teachers who have        type was held in December
and 1978             Institute          College and           an interest in          1975
(XRTTI)            Ministry of           science
___________________  l________________                                          Education           _________________________  __Educatio
1December                                Ministry of           Serving trained
Home Economics                                          I vacations 1977         ZRTTI            Education and         teachers who have
Teachers                12                 20          i and 1978                                ZRTTI staff           already done Home
_________________                             ~~~~~Economics   at   RTTI _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Technology                                               February 1977-                                                Nigh School
Teachers                 12                  15          December 1978           LSVTC            LSVTC staff          Graduation or
Certificate "C" or
l_______________                                               B.W.I.  graduate
Teacher                                                  December                                                      Trained teachers in
Librarians                7                 10           vacations 1977        National           National Library   primary and junior
and 1978              Library           staff                 high schools (who
are reasonably strong
______________________________________                       in   science)
December 1978                           Supervision                                   Orientation in special admi-
Principals and                                           and                                      teachers College                              nistrative (programming,
Deputies                  8                  8           December 1979                            RTTI staff                                    scheduling and interschool
cooperation) needs of centers
_                                                                                                                             tt-~~~~



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
COST SUMMARY
(US$)
Area ofPrfs
construc-   Construc-   Furniture iEquipment           es       Technical    Fellow-       TOA
tion in       tion                                sional      Assistance    ships        TOTAL
sq.ft.                                            ___Fees
I. Industrial Training
(a) Agricultural and Industrial Tr. Board          10,140       231,000    26,000        70,000        3,000    330,000        126,000    786,000
(b) Vocational Training Center                    44,335      ,1,034,000    80,000      480,000       27,000    153,000         81,000  1,855,000
(c) Manpower Planning                          __5_000                                   35,000                      _          90,000    130.000
Sub-Total                          1,265,000   111,000      585,000       30,000    483.000        297 000  2.771,000
II.  Forestry Training Institute                        33,180        859                                  2000  ,000 _0  1101,000   63,000  1,336.000
III.  Secondary Education
(a) Science Technology Centers                    62,000      1,595,000   140,000       400,000       20,000    320,000            -    2,475,000
(b) Administration of Secondary Education                                   10,000       90,000                   55,000       108,000    263,000
(c) Strengthening Teacher Training                                                      100.000                                216.000    316,000
Sub-Total                          1,595,20                                   0 9   2,00    375000  324000  3,054000
IV.  Division of Educational Facilities                                   _         _         60,000 -                110,000        63.000    233,000
Base Line Cost (including taxes)                              3,719,000   344,000   1,436,000         70,000  1,078,000        747,000  7,394,000
Physical Contingencies                                           223,100    20,700      114,900        4,000       -              -        362,700
Expected Price Increases                                        975,900    83,300       297,100       18,000    233,000        133,000  1,7490300
Total Contingencies                                            1,199,000   104,000      412,000       22,000    233,000        133,000  2,103,000
Total Cost Including Taxes and Contingencie                   4,918,000   448,000   1,848,000         92,000  1,311,000        880,000  9,497,000
Foreign Exchange (%)                                              55%        53%         72%            9%        85%            100%       66%
(Amount)                                    2,705,000   235,300   1,330,500          7,900  1,120,900        880,000  6,279,600
Share of Total Foreign Exchange Amount                           43%          4%         21%            -         18%            14%       100%



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(US$ 000)
Civil Works        Furniture         Equipment          Professional         Technical
Fees             Assistance           Fellowships             TOTAL
Local    Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign  Local    Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign
Local/Foreign Percentages              45%          55    47%          53%     28X'       72%    91%         9%        15%        8S%      0         100%
I. Base line Costs                  1,674        2,045   163          181     402      1,034      64         6        162        916       -         747    2,465      4,929
(3,719)             (344)             (1,436)              (70)              (1,078)               (747)              (7,394)
II. Physical Contingencies
(a)  Percentage                     6%          6%     6%         6%        8%         8%      6%        6%       -           -        _       _
(b) Amount                         100         123    10          12       32         83       4                        -                        -         146        217
( 223)               (21)              (115)                (4)            -                                           (363)
III. Total Including Physical        1.774       24168   173          192     434      1,117      68         6        162        916       _         747       264      5,146
Contingencies                    (3,942)               (365)            (1,551)               (74)              (1,078)               (747)               (7,757)
IV. Expected Price Increasesli
(a)  Percentage                    254          25%   23%          23%     19%        19%    25%        25%       22%         22%      -          18%
(b)  Amount                        439         537    40          43       83        214      16          2        28        205                 133       606    1,134
(976)               (83)               (297)               (18)                (233)              (133)              (1,740)
V. Total Contingencies
(a)  Percentage                    32%          32%    300%       30% !   29%         29%   31%          33%      22%         22%    18%          18%
(32)              (40%)               (29%)             (322)                (22%)               (18x)
(b)  Amount                        540        659       5r         54     115        297      20          2        28        205      -          13^       753   1,350
(c1191)             (104)               (412)              (22)                 (233)              (133)               (2,103)
VI. Total Cost Including              2,213     2,705      213        235      517      1,331     84           8      190      1 121      --         880    3,217   6,280
Contingencies                      (4,918)              (448)             (1,848)               (92)              (1,3115             (880)                (9,497)    mO
(I & V)                                          l
-See page 2 for                                   i
Estimates as of January 1977
Source: World Bank Mission, October 1976                                                                                                                                 ' a



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ASSUMED PRICE INCREASES 1977-80 (in percent)
Result of Price
Increases follow-
1977              1978               1979               1980       ing implementation
.______  ._______  ________  ________                              phasi   g*
Local   Foreign  Local    Foreign   Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign
1. Civil Works            13       13     12         12      12        12        12        12     25         25
2. Furniture              10       10     10         10      10         10       10        10     23         23
3. Equipment               9        9      8          8       8          8        8         8     19         19
4. Technical               8        8      8          8       8          8        8         8     22         22
Assistance
5. Fellowships             8        8      8          8       8         8         8         8     -          18
*Rounded
Source: Bank Mission
Date: November 1976
D,
co



ANNEX 6 tc)
LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IBRD FINANCING BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US$ 000)
Government      IBRD      % IBRD
Project Category         Cost      Finance    Finance    Finance
Civil Works                   4,400        2,000       2,400        55%
(including professional
fees)
Furniture                       400          200         200        55%
Equipment                     1,500          400       1,100        70%
Technical Assistance          1,100          200         900        85%
Fellowships                     800           -          800       100%
Unallocated                   1,300          400         900
Total        9,500        3,200       6,300
Estimates as of January 1977
Source: World Bank Mission



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
AND BASELINE COST CALCULATIONS
Number               Allocation
of                     in
Pro_ect Item (sub-item)         Persons    Years         us$                     General Purpose
A. TECHNICAIL ASSISTANCE
I(a) Agricultural and Industrial    1            2        110,000      Apprenticeship and in-plant training
Training Board
1         2         110,000      Job analysis, occupational standards,
tosting and certification
1         2         110,000      Development of modular training programs
and instructional aids
I(b) Vocational Training Center       1        1/4         16,000      Preparation of equipment list and related
proc.rement assistance
1  -1/2     137,000      Assistance in establishing the Center
Sub-Total               5       8--3/4       483,000
II  Forestry Training Institute        1          2        110,000      Assistance in establishing the Institute
Sub-Total               1          2         110,000
III(a) Science Technology Centers    8          16         320,000      Assistance in organizing and establishing         t
teaching programs, teacher training  and
teaching.
III(b) Improving Administration        1         1          55,000      Preparation of a school map                       ,
Sub-Total               9         17         375,000
(D



Number             Allocation
of                  in
Project Item (sub-item)        Persons   Years      us$                           General Purpose
IV Educational Facilities           1        2       110,000        Assistance in establishing and organizing
design office and preparing designs
Sub-Total              1         2       110,000
TOTAL             16       29-3/4  1,078,000
B. FELLOWSHIPS
I(a) Agricultural and Industrial   1         2                      Training in industrial training with
Training Board                                               emphasis on job analysis and occupational
standards
1        2                      Training in industrial training with
emphasis on testing and certification
1        2                      Training in industrial training with
emphasis on apprenticeship and in-plant
training
1        2                      Training in vocational guidance
2        4                      Training in development of industrial
training programs and instructional
materials
1        2                      Training in general planning, administrationd
and supervision of vocational centers, and
in planning the expansion of vocational
training to meet national needs.
0
Sub-Total             7        14       126,000
(DM



Number               Allocation
of                    in
Project Item (sub-item)       Persons    Years       us$                      General Purpose
I(b) Vocational Training          1          1                      Training in general administration and
Center                                                       management of vocational training centers
4         8                       Training in administration of vocational
training centers with each trainee
following in depth the development of
programs in one of the four basic trade
groups: construction, automotive,
electrical and mechanical
Sub-Total                5          9         81,000
I(c) Manpower Planning
Division                   2          3                      Economics/Manpower Planning
1         2                       Education/Human Resource Development
1        3/4                      Education/Human Resource Development
1        3/4                      Statistics/survey techniques
1      1-3/4                      Statistics/Economics
1      1-3/4                      Manpower Development/Administration
Sub-Total                7        10          90,000.
II Forestry Training Institute   2           4                      Training foresters in forestry training
techniques and upgrading their knowledge
of forestry
2         3                       Training 2 sub-professional instructors    w
in forestry training techniques and           w
0
upgrading them in their specialization.
Sub-Total                4         7          63,000                  _                         
I
(V



Number             Allocation
of                  in
Project Item (sub-item)            Persons   Years      us$                   General Purpose
III(b) Improving Administration       1       1/3                     Orientation of Director of Secondary
of Secondary Education                                       Education in secondary school develop-
ment problems particularly multi-
lateral schools in other developing
countries
1      1-2/3                   Training person to assist Director of
Secondary Education in administration
of secondary education
2       4                      Training in technical education
administration to assist Director of
Technical Education
1       2                      Training in Development and
administration of science programs and
secondary schools to assist the Director
of Science Education
2       4                      Training in science and supervision of
schools and science programs to produce
school supervisors in science
Sub-Total                  7      12        lo800_                                     _
III(c) Secondary Teacher              1       1/4                     Training in repair and operation of
Training                                                    audio-visual equipment
13     23-3/4                   Training as teacher trainers with
reference to specializations in
individual cases as follows:            (
2 each in Agricultural Education,
Science and Guidance/Counselling and   
1 each in English, Mathematics, Curri-  
culum Development, Evaluation, Home
Economics and Audio-Visual techniques  
Sub-Total                 14-24             2l6 o                                -f
Sub-Total                 14      2~4       216,000



Number              Allocation
of                     in
Project Item (sub-item)        Persons    Years        US$                    General Purpose
IV Educational Facilities         1         1/2                    Orientation of senior architect in
educational architectural irnfovations
in developing countries
1         1                     Training in educational architecture
for recent architectural graduate
1       1-1/2                   Training in building inspection
1       1-1/2                   Training in construction supervision
1       2-1/2                   Training in construction cost estimation
Sub-Total            5          7        63,000
TOTAL              49         83       747 OOO
0
\J1~
.   b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
nl



LIBERIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION AND PROCUREMENT OF RELATED FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT 1/
Joint Responsibi-                 1977*            1978              1979              1980
Implementation Activity                      lity of PIU and              12           4        2   3   4   1 |2   3   4   1   2   3   4
a/i b/
I.  Vocational Training Center               AITB and:
Architectural Designs/Approval           Consultant Architects    DDD DDD DDD DDD
Bidding Procurement/Approval             Consultant Architects                      D DD
Bids - Evaluation Award                  Consultant Architects                          $ $EE!E
Construction/Retention                   Contractors                                              IIII III 1IIIII  RRR |RR  RR RRRi
Furniture/Designs/Bids/Delivery          Supplier                            DDD DDD $$$ EE i                    11I
Equipment/Scheduling/Bids/Delivery    Supplier                               DDD DDD $$$ EE             III I IIII
II.  Forestry Training Institute             BF and:                                      | 
Architectural Designs/Approval           Consultant Architects    DDD DDD DDD
Bidding, Procurement/Approval            Consultant Architects                 D DD
Bids - Evaluation, Award                 Consultant Architects                      $ $EEI
Construction/Retention                   Contractor                                            III 1II  III III RRR RRR |RRR RRR
Furniture/Designs/Bids/Delivery          Supplier                        DDD DDD DDD $$$ EE              II III
Equipment/Scheduling/Bids/Delivery    Supplier                           DDD DDD DDD $$$ EE              II III
III.  Science and Technology Centers         DSE and:
Architectural Designs/Approval           Consultant Architects    DDD DDD DDD
Bidding, Procurement/Approval            Consultant Architects                DD D
Bids - Evaluation, Award                 Consultant Architects                     $$ EE
Construction/Retention                   Contractor                                        II  III III RRR RRR RRR RRR
Furniture/Designs/Bids/Delivery          Supplier                            DDD DDD $$$ EE    I III
Equipment/Scheduling/Bids/Delivery    Supplier                               DDD DDD $$$ EE    I II1
1/ Excluding vehicles                        Symbol Legend:                                                                                                   H
a/ Date of negotiations                         D - Architectural Designs/Preparation of lists           PIU: Project Implementation Unit                     0
b/ Date of effectiveness                        $ - Bids or Quotations                                   AITB: Agricultural and Industria  Tr. Board
*  Calendar year                                E - Evaluation/Award                                     DEA: Division of Educational Architecture
I - Construction/Supply                                  DSE: Division of Secondary Education
Source:  World Bank Mission                    R - Retention Period                                      BF:  Bureau of Forestry                             oo|
November 1976                                                                                                                                       r 0



LIBERIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PROCUREMENT OF VEHICLES AND OTHER EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
Joint Responsibi-    1      l' 1977          1978             1 79
Implementation Activity                                   lity of PIU and:       1   2  3   4   1   2   3   4   l   2   3   4
I.  Procurement of Vehicles
4 vehicles to AITB (2 in each order)                       ITB                    DD $$E    II    D D$  E             II
3 vehicles to VTC                                          VTC                                            D  $$E'    II
2 vehicles to MPD (1 in each order)                        MPD                   DD $$E    II             DD $$E:    II
4 four-wheel dr. vehicle FTI                               FTI                                       DD  $$       II
1 bus to FTI                                               FTI                                       DDD $$E      II
6 buses to STCS                                            DSE                               DD $$E      II
1 pickup truck to STCS                                     DSE                               DD $$E      II
3 vehicles - one each to DSE, DTE, DScE                DSE,DTE,DScE              DD $$E    II
2 fwd vehicles for Science Supervisors                     DScE                                           DD $$E      II
1 vehicle for NLS                                          NLS                   DD $$E    II
2 small buses to WVSTTC (one each order)                  WVSTTC                 DD $$E    II        DD$ $E       II
1 fwd vehic. to WVSTTC                                    WVSTTC                 DD $$E    II
1 car/station wagon to WSVTTC                              DEA                   DD $$E    II
4 vehicles for DEA (2 in each order)                       DEA                    DD $$E    II            DD $$E      II
II.  Procurement of Other Equipment and Supplies
Office equipment, furniture, to MPD                        MPD              DDD DDD $$$ E   II I
Office equipment, furniture, to DSE, DTE, DScE         DSE,DTE,DScE         DDD DDD $$$ E   II I
Science, audio visual and other equip. to WVSTTC          WVSTTC            DDD DDD D$$ $E       III
a/ Date of negotiations        Symbol Legend:
b/ Date of effectiveness         D - Preparation of Lists       PIU:  Project Implementation Unit
$ - Bids or Quotations       AITB: Agricultural and Industrial Training Board
Source: World Bank Mission       E - Evaluation/Award           VTC:  Vocational Training Center                                  d
November 1976            I - Supply                     MPD:  Manpower Planning Division
FTI:  Forestry Training Institute                                X
DSE:  Division of Secondary Education                            
DTE:  Division of Technical Education                            
DScE: Division of Science Education                               = 
NLS:  National Library Service                                   t 
WVSTTC: WVS Tubman Teachers College                                 p
DEF: Division of Educational Facilities                         to



LIBERIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
No. of         No. of         Joint Respons.                 1977              1978               1979              1980
Location and Specialists                         Specialists   Man/Months   of PIU and:                 a/1  2   3   4 I    2  3   4  1 1  2   3   4             TI 2   3   4
a/b!9 
I.  Industrial Training System                                                                                                                                    I l     -
Industrial Training Specialists                  3               72        AITB                    DDD DD$ $$        III IIIIii  III   1III1 1  III    I
Equipment Procurement Specialist                 1                3        VTC                     DDD $$$   III I                              l
Vocational Training Planner                      1               30        MPD                     DDD DDD $$$ $$$,            III III III III| III III IIIj III III, III
II.  Forestry Training Institute
Adviser/assistant to Director                    1               24         BF & FTI               DDD DDD $$$ $$$; III III III III III III III III
III.  Improving Secondary Education                                                                                          l
Science teaching specialists                     8              192        DSE & STCs              DDD DDD $$$ $$$ $$$1                 III III III III III        III III
School mapping specialist                        1               12       Bureau of Planning    DDD $$$              III|III III III
Minis.  of Education   DDD                                                             I
IV.  Strengthening Educational Architecture
Architect                                        1               24            DEF                 DDR RII III III III II  III III III III
Total                   16             357                                 _   _   _       
a/ Date of negotiations          Symbol Legend:                                                                                                                                  '
b/ Date of effectiveness           D:  Finalizing terms of reference                                                                                                             a
$:  Recruitment (Advertising/Selecting/Appointment)                                                                                          w
Source:  World Bank Mission        I:  Tenure of position                                                                                                                        0
November 1976                 Others as in previous schedules
am
m 00



LIBERIA  -  THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
FELLOWSHIPS
No. of     Total No. of   Joint Responsi-                1977  =           1978             1 -    1979  = _  1980
Trainees   Man/Months       bility of PIU and;    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
I. (a) Industrial Training Bureau
(See Annex 7 for specializations)            7            168           ATTN & MPD           RR PP    I III III III III III III III,I
(b) Vocational Training Center                                                                                                              !
Director designate                           1             12              AITB               RR PP    I III III III II
Heads of Department designate                4             96              AITB               RR PP    I III III III III III III III I
(c) Manpower Planning Division
Education/Human Resource Development         1             22               MPD              RR PP    I III III III III III III III
"1      ".      to       If              1              9               MPD                 RRR RPP P                I III III II
Manpower Dev./Admin.                         1             21               MPD               RR PP    I III III III III III III II
Economics/Manpower                           1             15               MPD              RR PP    I III III III III II
"   "  1      22               MPD                      RRR PPP             I III III III III III III III
Statistics/Economics                         1             22               MPD              RR PP    1 III III III III III III III
Statistics/Surveys                           1              9               MPD                      RRR PPP             I III III II
II. Forestry Training
Foresters                                    1             24                BF               RR PP    I III III III III III III III II
1             24                BF                      RRR PPP             I III III III III III III III II
Sub Professional Instructors                 2             36                BF                      RRR PPP     ~     III III III III III III
III.   Secondary Education
(b) Director Secondary Education                 1              4               DSE                  PPP          III I
Assist. Director Secondary Education         1             20               DSE               RR PPP          !III III III III III III II
Assistants Tech. Educ.                       2             48               DTE
Assistant Science Education                  1             24              DScE               RR PPP   I III| III III III III III III II
Science Supervisors                          2             48              DScE
(c) Teacher Trainers
(See Annex 7 for specializations)            5            110            WVSTTC              RR PPP   I III III III III III III III
4             88                                RR PPP P          II III III III lII III III II
4             88                                     RR PPP                 I III III Ill III Ill Ill III
1              2                                                 RRR PPP      II
IV.  Educational Architecture
Director (Senior Architect)                  1              6               DEF                      PPP               III III
Architect                                    1             12               DEF               RR PPPi  I III III III II                                             a
Construction                                 1             18               DEF               RREPPP   I III III III III III II                       l
Building Inspection                          1             18               DEF               RR PPP   I III III III |III III II        I             I      
Cost Estimation                              1             30               DEF               RR PPP   I III III III III III III III III III III
49            996                                  I______                             4_                      -    -      D.
Symbol Legend:M
R -  Recruitment/Selection                                                                                                                                               aq
P -  Placement on  study courses/attachments                                                                                                                              ml0
I - Tenure of Fellowship
Source: World Bank Mission
November 1976



ANNEX 9
LIBERIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(us$ 'coo)
Calendar      Fiscal  Fiscal Year                 Accumulated    Undisbursed
Year         Year      Quarter  Disbursements Disbursements       Balance
1977                      1           27            27             6,273
2          134           161            6,139
1978         3          113           274             6,026
4          387           661            5,639
1978
1          869         1,530            4,770
2        1,o64         2,594            3,706
1979         3        1,012         3,6o6            2,694
4          671         4,277            2,023
1979
1          806         5,083            1,217
2          518         5,601              699
1980         3          203         5,8o4              496
4          185         5,989              311
1980                      1          117         6,106               194
1981         2          194         6,300                0
Total            14        6,300         6,300                 0
November 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



LIBERIA: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
(US$ '000)
Disbursement   Fiscal**              1978                      1979                     1980             1981    Total Disburse-
Allocation        Year-------m------rents Incldn
by Category    Quarter          1   2   _    _ . _    2            3    4       1    2      3           1   2nr
l.Civil Works                             2,400                        3    3   3  203  564    683    552  289   <230  -100   50   20                           2,700
(including professional fees)
2. Furniture and Equipment                1,300                            10  55  102  170    209    233  222   351   213   35                                 1,600
3. Technical Assistance                      900                      18   13  18   5    78       71    124   96   140    81   85  128.  57  141                1,100
4. Fellowships                               800                       6  108  37   3    57    101    103   64    85   124   33   37   60   53                     900
5. Unallocated (contingencies)              900                               Included in categories 1 - 4 disbursements
TOTAL              6,300                      27134|113  381  869  1,064  1,012  671   806   518  203  185  117  194                     6,300
*Funds in category exhausted.  Disbursements following * represent reallocation from category 5 (unallocated).
**The Fiscal Year goes from 1 June - 30 June.
November 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



I BR D   12498
-          [                           \          IOP  0                            9'                                       C '  (    z0U5,SIf 
/  Kamora                7oinlomo                                                            " !  \    C 
.     \           /                                          G 5NIG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL "A.R. _          .     
S I E R R A    L E O N E      jFoE                                                                                       ,           H     AL
- 006R\L           O F  A                                                                \
g1-   C  O-' 0 N   T  Y    zorRCE G  U  I N  E  A                                               ,    A
vf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPE S7 4/0R rZ. i 
SIERRAl  FNEl  LEN                                   RO ST  ,. V                  
, $t   g            ,    J-IOEMA  ,    1                     J Am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~quellie 
eD>C AP>;,-                             , /e $                                                        4v p|
/  COUNTY X  C a  \    /  --Ca NT                       Zooz          GUNEN  I M B A  /
RAND    CAPE   'Y'Y ~ ~      ~         ~         ~         ~           U     TY'
neoX   ag' k             \   ncl~eREd  B 0  N  G      fw Gborn0o              t  pSogleiple     
THIRD  EDUCATIONe                                            C O U N T                                            D )EDEH
,OUNERS IN CV FACCTS    D[ F O      E
'APF7N ROAD                                                                                      /                                       S>Z    Ie 
kOD R                                                                          V N   R Y     C S  A   S T N e
GRAND~~~~~~~~~~~A YLA 
THITRD  EDUCAT CON C C CA                                                               SRG
-n      T        A,CRC22A2220C279R 4                                                                                              OCCEO\C    970 RE    H
PrOIJECT I                                                         /S>COU( T Y                                             
COUN"TIES INWfIeCFHFACLITIESWILL BE CNTUTD<                           !      ~       VAZFES  
. _ ORtSTRY TRAfNiNEG INSTITUTE                                 W                    L\  
v :SC-IENCE - 'E.>NOLOGY CEFtTE F 
.> VCCATiONAE TRA!N:NG CEEV'ER                    +0Xi                     SIN         COUNTY                                         t
"-E DkTfIAL 'RAINING B,RFAu                                                                                       Koh lake/ Z/wz>  
Zwedr COUNTY SEATS                                          OCeUtm         GreekvBt_                                 
M5 AAIN ROADS                                                        ~                                       
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                       >                                      z k
-fiA4f ROADS                                                                                                                         yo ke
- -CO-INTY SOUNDAWS5                                     slD"F                                 St3to. / ),YLN
--INERNAIICNAL BOUNDARIES               o   loLE                                                          '\ m               lb
t  &s  f eZ *S S d.. 1COUNT
P   xLwF vdOakowoSa tz te  lov         9r                                   8- t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-C-ER .7



