CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1427 AL
Loan Agreement
(Port of Jijel Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 30, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1427 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1977, between DEMOCRATIC AND
POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Sociftg nationale de sidfrurgie (hereinafter called
SNS) intends to construct, equip and operate the steel production
facilities included in the Steel Complex within the framework of
the economic use of the Port included in the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The member
of the Bank which is the Borrower or the Guarantor shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in its territory."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Steel Complex" or "First Phase of the Steel Complex"
means the first phase of an integrated steel complex to be built
about 15 km east of the city of Jijel and comprising, except as
the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the following:


﻿-3-
(i) a pelletizing plant with an annual production
capacity of about 2 million tons of pellets;
(ii) three direct reduction units with an annual
production capacity of about 1.2 million tons of
sponge iron;
(iii) four electric furnaces with an annual production
capacity of about 800,000 tons of liquid steel;
(iv) four continuous casting machines with a. annual
production capacity of about 755,000 tons of
billets; and
(v) a ferroalloy plant with an annual production
capacity of about 110,000 tons of different types
of alloys.
(b) "Steel Mills" means the following steel mills:
(i) a special steel mill to be built at Ain M'Lila
capable of consuming about 350,000 tons of the
sponge iron produced annually by the Steel Complex;
and
(ii) rolling mills to be built at appropriate locations,
capable of consuming all billets produced by the
Steel Complex.


﻿-4-
(c)  "Power Station" means the power station tb be built by
SONELGAZ adjacent to the steel Complex capable of supplying
electricity as needed to the Steel Complex and the Port of Jijel,
as well as natural gas as needed to the Steel Complex by tapping
the trunk line feeding the Power Station.
(d) "Second Phase of the Steel Complex" means the second
phase of the Steel Complex expected to be completed, about 1995
and consisting of the extension of the production capacity of the
Steel Complex.
(e) "SNS Traffic Handling Equipment" means the port handling
equipment to be installed by SNS at the Port of Jijel on the berths
constructed to permit during each year the:
(i) unloading of about 2.8 million tons of local iron
ore, foreign iron ore, manganese ore, chrome
ore, bentonite, coke, and scrap iron; and
(ii) loading of about 1.7 million tons of pellets,
sponge iron, billets and ferroalloys.
(f) "Port of Jijel" means the new port to be constructed,
equipped and operated under Part A of the Project.
(g) "ONP" means Office national des ports, an office
of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Ordonnance No. 71-29 of May 13, 1971.


﻿-5-
(h) "SNS" means the Socigtd nationale de sid6rurgie
referred to in the Preamble of this Agreement, a soci6t.
nationale of the Borrower, established ond operating pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 64-276 of September 3, 1964.
(i)  "SONATRAM" means Soci6t6 nationale de travaux
maritimes, a soci6t6 nationale of the Borrower, esteblished
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 70-47
of June 12, 1970.
(j) "SONELGAZ" means Soci6t6 nationale de l'4lectricit6
et du gaz, a soci6t6 nationale of the Borrower, established
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 69-59 of
July 28, 1969.
(k) "CNAN" means Compagnie nationale alg6rienne de
navigation, a soci6t6 nationale of the Borrower operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 67-77 of May 11, 1967.
(1) "SONAMA" means Soci6t6 nationale de manutention, a
soci6t6 nationale of the Borrower operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Ordonnance No. 71-16 of April 9, 1971.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, contracts for civil works or for the purchase of
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.


﻿-7-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annualy on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources reqoired for the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project, provide or cause to be provided the
necessary supplementary allocations of funds to ensure the timely
execution thereof; and (ii) in the carrying out of Part C of the
Project, make available to SONATRAM amounts in the equivalent of
ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower (i) in
the preparation of plans, specifications and bidding documents, in
the analysis of bids received and in the supervision of Part A of
the Project, and (ii) in the carrying out of Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
engineering and management consultants, respectively, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. The said


﻿management consultants required for Part B of the Project shall be
employed not later than June 30, 1978 or such other date as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint qualified counterparts to
the engineering consultants employed pursuant to paragraph (a)
above for the supervision of the civil works under Part A of the
Project.
(c) In order to assist SONATRAM (i) in the preparation
of bidding documents and in the analysis of bids received for
Part C (1) of the Project, and (ii) in the carrying out of Part C
(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SONATRAM to employ,
not later than December 31, 1.977, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, marine engineering consultants and technical con-
sultants, respectively, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otharwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure
the safety and stability of the works referred to in Part A of the
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request


﻿- 11 -
concerning (A) the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, and
(B) the steps to be taken pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to assign as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
assignment, evidence that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Promptly when the individual facilities and
equipment under Part A of the Project shall have become opera-
tional, the Borrower shall charge ONP with the operation and
management of such facilities and equipment in accordance with
the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 71-29 of May 13, 1971.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall
be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as
security for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in
the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any subdivision thereof and of
any entity owned or controlled by the Borrower or any such
subdivision.
Section 4.02. In order to ensure full operation of the
Port of Jijel expected by June 30, 1982, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 13 -
(a) cause SNS: (i) to procure and to install the steel pro-
duction facilities and equipment required for the First Phase of
the Steel Complex and for the Steel Mills, and thereafter to
operate and maintain the Steel Complex and the Steel Mills, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial and industrial practices;
(ii) to take all other necessary measures in order that the First
Phase of the Steel Complex be fully operational not later than
June 30, 1982 and in order to ensure the consumption of its pro-
duction namely by the full operation, in a timely manner, of the
Steel Mills; and (iii) to carry out the Second Phase of the Steel
Complex in a timely manner;
(b) cause SNS to provide and install the SNS Traffic Handl-
ing Equipment not later than June 30, 1981;
(c) cause SONELGAZ to take all necessary measures in order
to provide in a timely manner, as the need arises, energy to the
Steel Complex and the Port of Jijel, including the installation
of the Power Station;
(d) cause SONAMA to provide all necessary mobile general
cargo handling equipment at the Port of Jijel as required;
(e) cause all other equipment necessary for the operation
of the Port of Jijel to be provided in a timely manner; and


﻿- 14 -
(f)  cause the existing road connecting Jijel to Constantine
to be rehabilitated in order to sustain increased cargo .traffi,
through the Port of Jijel by such time as the Port of Jijel shall
have becae operational.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the construction, installation and operation of the
Port of Jijel, the Steel Complex and the Power Station are carried
out with due regard to the safeguarding of the environment and its
biota, including but without limitation, prevention of pollution
of the harbor from land and vessel sources and unfavorable
alterations of the coastline resulting from changed current and
tide patterns.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borroweit shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of ONP
and SONATRAM and of the departments or other agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ONP to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿- 15 -
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank As soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonbly
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ONP and
SONATRAM, from financial year 1977 on, and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause ONP to take all such
measures, including but not limited to the introduction of dues,
rates and other charges for services and facilities at the Port of
Jijel, as shall be necessary to provide ONP with revenues from
the said Port sufficient to make the payments referred to in
Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
Section 4.06. In order to permit rational utilization of
the Port of Jijel, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure coordination of: (a) the activities of the Port of Jijel
with those of its other ports; and (b) the construction and
operation of the Port of Jijel with the construction and operation
of the Steel Complex.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations
of ONP and SONATRAM;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ONP and SONATRAM
at all times to carry on their operations, under the supervision
of experienced and competent management, in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ONP and SONATRAM to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights which are necessary or useful for
the purpose of carrying out their obligations under this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall cause ONP and.SONATRAM at all times:
(i) to operate, maintain, renew and repair their
facilities and equipment in accordance with
sound management and engineering practices;
and
(ii) to maintain insurance against all risks as shall
be consistent with appropriate business practices
and shall make additional provision therefor to
the extent necessary.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that no property or assets
of ONP and SONATRAM shall be sold or transferred if such sale or
transfer shall adversely affect the efficient operation of ONP or
SONATRAM.


﻿- 17 -
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause ONP and SNS to
enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, which shall establi7h tariffs applicable to SNS traffic
through the Port of Jijel as well as other concession payments
to be made by SNS to ONP irrespective of traffic volume, at such
levels as shall enable ONP to achieve the rate of return on the
assets at the Port of Jijel to be used for SNS traffic referred
to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ONP to charge the tariffs
applicable to general cargo traffic at the Port of Jijel as they
shall have been determined in the manner set forth in Section 5.04
of this Agreement.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take or cause ONP to take from
time to time all necessary measures, including, but not limited
to, the establishment of the tariffs and other payments referred
to in Section 5.02 of this Agreement, as shall be required to
enable ONP to yield: (i) an annual return of not less than 8-1/2%
on the average net value of fixed assets at the Port of Jijel to
be used for SNS traffic; and (ii) such annual return on the
average net value of such fixed assets to be used for general
cargo as shall be determined in the manner set forth in Section
5.04 of this Agreement.


﻿- 18
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) capital costs common to both categories of fixed
assets referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii),
respectively, of paragraph (a) above shall be
allocated to each such category in accordance with
a method to be agreed upon by the Borrower and the
Bank.
(ii) (A) the annual return with respect to such fixed
assets to be used for SNS traffic shall be
calculated by dividing ONP's operating income
from SNS traffic for each fiscal year by
one-half of the sum of the net value of said
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
at the end of that year; and
(B) the annual return with respect to such fixed
assets to be used for general cargo handling
shall be calculated by dividing ONP's
operating income from general cargo traffic
for each fiscal year by one-half of the
sum of the net value of said fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of
that year.


﻿- 19 -
(iii) the terms "operating income from SNS traffic"
under paragraph (ii) (A) above and "operating
income from general cargo traffic" under paragraph
(ii) (B) above shall mean the difference between,
respectively:
(A) gross operating reveinue accruing from services
provided by ONP to SNS and from ONP's services
related to general cargo traffic; and
(B) operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses, including adequate provision for
depreciation, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt, and payments to the State
referred to in Section 5.05 of this Agreement
including income taxes, if any, as such
expenses relate to assets referred to in
paragraphs (ii) (A) and (ii) (B) above in
accordance with the cost allocation method
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above.
(iv) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross book value of the assets referred
to less the amount of accumulated depreciation,
both as valued from time to time in accordance
with appropriate valuation practices.


﻿- 20 -
Section 5.04. (a) Without limitation on the provisions of
Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry
out or cause to be carried out, not later than January 1, 1979,
or such other date as the Bank may agree, a review of the
Borrower's general port tariff structure, and rate levels to the
extent necessary, taking account of the requirements of said
Sections and promptly thereafter introduce and charge the
appropriate tariffs.
(b) The Borrower shall, on the basis of the review referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, determine (i) an adequate
rate of return to be achieved under sub-paragraph (ii) of para-
graph (a) of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, and (ii) the level of
tariffs to be introduced for the purpose with respect to general
cargo traffic of the Port of Jijel.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall ensure that payments to be
made by ONP to the State, including income taxes, if any, out of
revenues from ONP's operations at the Port of Jijel, shall not
exceed in any one year the sum of (i) its combined operating
income from SNS traffic and from general cargo traffic from the
Port of Jijel in that year, as such term is defined in Section
5.03 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, and (ii) the amount of deprecia-
tion charged for the purpose of calculating said combined operat-
ing income, less any amounts necessary to enable ONP to carry out
its operations, and to meet its current obligations, at the Port
of Jijel.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Borrower's Ordonnances
referred to in paragraphs (g) and (i) of Section 1.02 of this
Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as
to materially and adversely affect the management or operation of
ONP and SONATRAM, respectively, or any action shall have been
taken for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONP or SONATRAM
or for the suspension of their operations.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified
in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date December 29, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The 1inister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist8re des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Algeria
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINPLAN                              52062
Alger
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 24 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Seddik Ben Yahia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           Z of'
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works and             46,500,000       22%
dredging under Part
A of the Project
(2) Equipment under              3,500,000       40% of foreign
Part A of the Proj-                         expenditures
ect
(3) Consultants' ser-            2,200,000       40% of foreign
vices for Part A                            expenditures
of the Project
(4) Technical assistance           600,000       40% of foreign
and consultants'                            expenditures
services for Part B
of the Project
(5) Equipment under              3,700,000       40% of foreign
Part C of the                               expenditures
Project
(6) Technical assistance           300,000       40% of foreign
and consultants'                            expenditures
services for Part C
of the Project
(7) Unallocated                 23,200,000
TOTAL       80,000,000


﻿- 26 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 27 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreemeat, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the construction, equipment and
operation of a port about 15 km east of the city of Jijel mainly
to serve the Steel Complex, as well as the provision of assistance
in port management, training and feasibility studies and support
to the domestic civil works industry.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The Port
1.   Construction of a main breakwater with a length of
about 2,800 m reaching 17 m deep water at Mean Low Water
Spring Tides (MLWST).
2.   Construction of a secondary breakwater with a length
of about 900 m reaching 13 m deep water at MLWST.
3.   Construction of five berths to serve the Steel Complex,
four berths for general cargo, two berths for
roll-on/roll-off and one berth for container handling,
the total berthing length aggregating approximately
2,100 m.
4.   Construction of two transit sheds of a total area
of approximately 25,000 m2 and of one container
consolidating shed of an area of approximately 10,000 m2e
5.   Construction of a shallow draft basin for harbor
craft.


﻿- 29 -
6.   Dredging the main channel and the turning circle to a
depth of not less than 15.2 m, the general cargo and
container basin to a depth of not less than 11 m, the
Steel Complex basin to a depth ranging between 10.5 and
14.7 m and the harbor craft basin to a depth of not less
than 7 m, the total volume of dredging to be carried out
aggregating approximately 2.8 million m3.
7.   Provision, construction or installation of facilities
necessary for the operation of the port including, inter
alia, navigation aids, access roads, potable water,
sewage treatment, power and lighting, telecommunications,
fire protection, and administrative and social buildings.
8.   Provision of eight quay cranes for general cargo with
a capacity of 6 to 10 tons each and one container crane.
9.   Provision of four pilot boats.
Part B:   Technical Assistance for Port Management and Operations
and TrAining. and Studies
1.   Strengthening of ONP's management, administrative
and operational capabilities in the fields of costing
systems, internal control, internal audit and equipment
maintenance.
2.   Training of personnel at all levels of ONP, CNAN and
SONAMA.


﻿- 30 -
3.   Preparation of a new port cost accounting system and a
new tariff structure for all ports in Algeria.
4.   Preparation of a master plan study for the main Algerian
commercial ports.
Part C:   Assistance to the Domestic Civil Works
and Dredging Industry
1.   Provision of port construction equipment to SONATRAM.
2.   Technical assistance in construction yard organization,
in dredging and in training of SONATRAM's personnel.
Parts A and B of the Project are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1982 and Part C of the Project by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1981
through   November 15, 1993                  2,965,000
On May 15, 1994                                   2,910,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 32 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                            2.90%
I,ore than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                            7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                            8.20%


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with 1:hose
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-34-
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their quali-
fications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifica-
tions and other bidding documents and any subsequent modifications
thereof, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 35 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,


﻿- 36 -
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


