FILE COPY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 2933-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
POST-HURRICANE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJEC'
IN THE
SOUTHERN PENINSULA
February 18, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Gourde (G)
$1:              G5
Cl:              $0.20
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to the
U.S. dollar at the rate of G5=$1)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                 British/U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)                            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2               0.62 mile (mi) or 1,093 yards (yd)
1 square kilometer (km )               0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (mt)                      2,200 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                        2.24- (lb)
1 hectare (hg)                         2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                            0.908 quarts (qt)
ABBREVIATIONS
BCA           Bureau de Credit Agricole
(Agricultural Credit Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture)
BRH          Banque de la Republique d'Haiti
(Central Bank of Haiti)
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CUNA         Credit Union National Association of the United States
DARNDR       Department de l'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles
et du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development)
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
GNP          Gross National Product
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDAI         Institut de Developpement Agricole et Industriel
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank)
IDB          Int-er-American Development Bank
IHPCADE      Institut Haitien pour la Promotion du Cafe et des Denrees
d'Exportation
(Haitian Institute for the Promotion of Coffee and
Commodity Exports)
DMF          International Monetary Fund
NFS          Net Factor Services
OAS          Organization of American States
ODN          Organisme du Developpement du Nord
(Regional Organization for the Development of the North)
PPC          Petit Project Cafeier
(Smallholders Coffee Project)
SAC          Societe de Credit Agricole
(Agricultural Credit Society)
SNEP         Service National d'Eau Potable
(National Water Supply Authority)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
POST-HURRICANE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION
PROJECT IN THE SOUTHERN PENINSULA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Haiti
Amount:         SDR 2,600,000
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  The project would rehabilitate food crops and coffee production
through the provision of fertilizer, the extension of credit
for labor and farm inputs, expansion of coffee nurseries,
purchase of hand tools and the construction of regional
farm development centers to improve and reinforce support
services in the project area.
The project would: (i) help restore food production and
(ii) help salvage part of the 1981 coffee crop and increase
production in the 1982 and subsequent crops. Coffee yields
per hectare could increase from 250 kg to at least 300 kg
in the second and subsequent years. The project would help
about 10,000 farmers severely affected by Hurricane Allen to
maintain, and subsequently improve their incomes.
The risks of the project are the possibility of poor credit
recovery and non-return of hand tools, and potential weak-
nesses in field organization of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Pisks are reduced by providing 154 staff of various levels
for field work and supervision, and by having the overall
project coordinated by a Management Team of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Cost:
Local         Foreign
Currency       Exchange    Total
…-----    US$ Thousand---------
Fertilizer                     140          2,660      2,800
Farm credit                    360              40        400
Tools                            15            285       300
Transport and storage           72             108        180
Service centers                125             125       250
Nurseries                      270              90       360
Extension services             380              20       400
Total base cost         1,362          3,328      4,690
Price  contingencies       55            456        511
Total cost              1,417          3,784      5,201
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign Exchange      Total
(US$ 000)
Source
IDA                        957            2,234              3,191
IJSAID                      80            1,530               1,610
Government                 380               20                 400
Total              1,417             3 784              5,201
Disbursements:                                  FY81                     FY82
-------($ millions)--------
Annual             0.8                      2.4
Cumulative         0.8                      3.2
Staff Appraisal
Report:          None issued.  This is a combined President's and Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A POST-HURRICANE AGRICULTURAL
REHABILITATION PROJECT IN THE SOUTHERN PENINSULA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 2.6 million, equivalent to US$ US$3.2 million, on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti to help finance a post-Hurricane
Agricultural Rehabilitation project in the Southern Peninsula. The United
States Agency for International Development has agreed to make a grant equiva-
lent to US$1.6 million in support of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last economic report on Hait±i-,-d4s-tributed to the Executive
Directors on January 8, 1979, was Report No. 2165-HA, entitled "Current
Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti". A mission has recently updated
the macroeconomic situation and its findings are reflected below. Relevant
social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.  GNP
per capita in 1979 stood at US$260. Data for 1976 indicated that almost
75 percent of the population lived under conditions of absolute poverty.
An infant mortality rate of about 150 per thousand live births, an average
life expectancy of 51 years, low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutri-
tion and gastroenteric diseases account for over half of the deaths in the
country) and an adult illiteracy rate of about 80 percent illustrate the
depressed living standards of the population. Though accurate information
does not exist, underemployment is widespread, particularly in the agricul-
tural and informal sectors.
4.        The Haitian economy was characterized during the 1970s by modest
growth subject to cyclical fluctuations. The average annual growth rate
was 3.8 percent or 2.1 percent per capita during the 1970-79 period. Gross
domestic product (CDP) growth has fluctuated from 1.3 percent in 1977 to
5.3 percent in 1978 and to 1.7 percent in 1979. These results were strongly
influenced by the performance of agriculture. Manufacturing and construction
show a more even performance.
5.        Agriculture provides employment for about 73 percent of the popula-
tion. It accounted for about 40 percent of GDP growth between 1970 and 1979.
The sector is characterized by erratic behavior, extremely low productivity
and heavy dependence on climatic conditions. Its weak performance is reflected
in rapidly increasing food imports and declining agricultural export volume.
Between 1970-71 and 1978-79, the share of food imports in total imports
increased from 11 percent to 18 percent, while agricultural exports decreased
by 1.3 percent annually, in real terms. Recognizing that sustained economic
1/   All references to fiscal years are to Haitian Fiscal Years ending
September 30.



- 2 -
growth and a broadening of its benefits requires measures to improve agricul-
tural productivity, the Government has recently initiated programs to introduce
improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore the major
irrigation systems and develop agro-industries.
6.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public
utilities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with annual
average growth rates of 6.6 percent, 13.9 percent and 9.0 percent, respectively.
Their combined share in real GDP represented 21 percent in 1979 (in constant
prices), but, despite their strong growth dynamics, their combined contribution
to GDP growth during the nine year period did not exceed one-half of the GDP
increment. The manufacturing sector owes much of its expansionary drive to
the export processing industries and to a rapid increase in output of construc-
tion materials. Growth of locally manufactured products for the domestic
market was necessarily limited by the thinness of this market, explainable by
the early stage of development of Haiti.
7.        Starting from very low levels, public investment has increased
rapidly since 1970, at an average annual rate of 23.4 percent in real terms,
and its sectoral composition has undergone significant changes. While during
the first Five-Year Plan (1971-76), only about 11 percent of total government
development expenditures was for agriculture, the latter's share in the second
Five-Year Plan (1977-81), on the basis of projects already approved, is
estimated at about 24 percent. Other areas of high priority are transport,
education, and health, especially geared to rural areas. The overall orienta-
tion of the 1977-81 development program also reflects the Government's objec-
tive to decentralize economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial
towns. Their share in total development expenditures is likely to increase
from about 50 percent in the recent past, to about 70 percent during the second
Five-Year Plan period. However, the Government's decision to carry out three
major investment projects outside the Five-Year Plan, will displace or delay
planned investments and could substantially alter the expected pattern of
outlays.
8.        Institutional strengthening is among the second Five-Year Plan's
highest priorities, and technical assistance for project preparation and
implementation has been considerably increased. A Joint Commission for the
Implementation of External Cooperation Programs was established in 1975
to consider the country's economic situation and external technical and
financial assistance programs. The Commission, for which the Organization
of American States (OAS) provides the secretariat, is composed of senior
government officials and of representatives of the multilateral and bilateral
aid agencies active in Haiti. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, under the chairmanship of the World Bank, is another forum for
pclicy dialogue with the Haitian authorities.
9.        The mobilization of domestic resources for development expenditures
is hampered by institutional weaknesses in the banking sector and in public
finance. During the 1977-79 period, gross national savings (GNS) amounted to
2.9 percent of gross national product (GNP), down from 5.5 percent in FY75.
As the public sector provides a sizeable share of total savings, success in
raising national savings would depend, to a considerable degree, on efforts



- 3 -
to improve public finance management. In line with the recommendations of the
Bank and other donor agencies, a major reorganization of fiscal management,
currently taking place with IMF assistance, should help strengthen such
efforts. Inflation was not particularly high in the recent past, but its rate
is increasing pari-passu with world inflation, rising from 9.4 percent in 1979
to around 12 percent in 1980. An expected lower supply of food in 1981 will
probably increase the consumer price index by 20 percent.
10.       Most public revenues have been integrated into the budget; the
Treasury now centralizes all current expenditures and a significant share
of capital expenditures; tax collection is being consolidated and para-
fiscal functions have been removed from the Regie du Tabac; sound accounting
procedures are being established in all public institutions; customs duties
have been consolidated and their average rate raised; new taxes have been
imposed on the lottery and on international communications and the income
tax law was amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxation.
11.       Notwithstanding a very strong performance of coffee export tax revenues,
the public sector deficit increased significantly from 3.4 percent of GDP in FY79
to around 4.7 percent in FY80. As a result, the Government could not reach
agreement with the IMF on the program related to the remainder of the 1979-81
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) until March-April 1980, and this agreement was
substantially revised in December 1980 in the light of the impact of Hurricane
Allen. The situation will require both additional revenue measures and tight
control of expenditures. FY81 will be a difficult period for Haiti inasmuch
as the coffee crop will be a poor one, world coffee prices have dropped and
bauxite export revenues will also decline.
12.       Despite the slowdown in national savings, gross investment has
accelerated, reaching 14.9 percent of GNP in 1977-79.  This growth in invest-
ment was entirely attributable to the public sector, whose share of total
investment has increased to two-thirds. The gap between national investment
and savings, therefore, averaged 12 percent of GNP between 1977-79, compared to
8.4 percent in 1975 and 4.1 percent in 1970. The most important contributions
to filling this resource gap, have come from government borrowing from inter-
national and bilateral aid agencies (40 percent), grants-in-aid (35 percent),
and private transfers and direct foreign investment (25 percent). The public
sector depends almost exclusively on foreign sources for the financing of its
deficit. These inflows permitted prior to 1980 an increase in foreign
reserve holdings despite a net outflow of short-term funds.
13.       Gross international reserves fell from a level equal to two months
of imports of goods and net factor services (NFS) in 1977-79, to a level of
one month of goods and NFS by September 1980, as a result of a sharp expansion
of Central Bank credit to the public sector and of government investment in
several industrial projects in 1980. Private transfers continue growing as
the number of Haitians working abroad increases. Private direct investment has
also been rapidly rising with political stability, fiscal incentives, and
cheap labor as the main factors. It is expected to continue to rise. In
1979, new private foreign investment was almost five times higher than in
1975 (in nominal terms).



- 4 -
14.       The high proportion of grants and concessionary loans has helped in
maintaining the debt-service ratio at an estimated 4.2 percent for 1979. The
rising level of private foreign investment and of suppliers' credits, however,
will bring with it larger factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation
and interest payments. Net factor payments have doubled in 1979 over 1976 and
the ratio of public debt amortization, plus net factor payments (including
private non-guaranteed debt) to exports of goods and non-factor services, is
11.6 percent.
15.       A necessary continuation -- at a somewhat quicker pace than in the
past -- of Haiti's economic development will require a further increase in
the use of foreign savings, given the extremely low domestic saving capacity.
This would require external financing of a high proportion of the cost of
development projects, including local cost when the latter constitute a major
share of total cost. Further=-__rn, in view of the country's poverty, Haiti
will continue to require external assistance on ccncessionary terms for some
time to come, if it is to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of
living of its population. An important factor in determining the availability
of this assistance will be the effective implementation of the fiscal reform,
and, in particular, the control of expenditures, including those of a capital
nature. This aspect will be closely monitored by the Association.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
16.       Since 1974, IDA has financed nine projects in Haiti.  Two credits
for highway projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In 1976, a credit was made
for an education project and, in 1977, credits weie made for power and rural
development projects. In 1978, credits were made for a transportation
project (secondary roads and a pilot port component); for a second education
project and for a water supply project in provincial towns. In 1979, a credit
for a second power project was approved. The total of credits outstanding
is US$110 million, of which US$39.0 million were undisbursed as of January 31,
1981. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations in
Haiti as of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC has not made any investments in Haiti but is now considering two projects,
one in agro-business and the other for a housing hank.
17.       Various multilateral and bilateral development agencies are active
in Flaiti. IDB has made loans for rural development, transportation, industrial
credit, rural education, water supply, development of the Port-au-Prince
harbor and urban drainage in Port-au-Prince. IJSAID is providing assistance
for integrated rural development projects, community development, malaria
eradication, maternal-child health and family planning, modernization of
coffee production and marketing, construction of feeder roads and for highway
maintenance. CIDA (Canada) is supporting a rural development project in the
Southern Peninsula; a power project in Port-au-Prince in connection with IDA's
Second Power Project, and is assisting agricultural and technical education
and the construction of school facilities. CIDA has also completed a study



- 5 -
of Haiti's water resource potential for both irrigation and for power genera-
tion. France is financing seed production, educational planning and research,
road construction and equipment for provincial airports. The Federal Republic
of Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for a regional
development project in the Gonaives Plain, power facilities for Cap Haitien
and the Drouet and Gonaives-St. M4arc areas, and, together with France, is
providing technical assistance for the execution of the IDA-assisted rural
development project in the Northern Plain.
18.       Recent and prospective IDA operations in Haiti take into account
the ongoing and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line
with the Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan
(1977-81) and with Haiti's development priorities, current and planned
IDA operations are meant to support the improvement and expansion of basic
infrastructure in transportation and power, to expand educational opportuni-
ties and upgrade technical skills, to promote regional development in both
rural areas and provincial towns and to create new employment opportunities
in the directly productive sectors.
19.       A ports project is in an advanced stage of processing.  It would
include expansion of the port of Cap Haitien, for which Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany) is considering cofinancing, and
continue the program of coastal shipping port rehabilitation initiated under
the Fifth Transport Project. It also includes technical assistance for the
institutional development of the National Port Authority. An industrial
credit project was also recently appraised by IDA. It would establish a
rediscount facility in the Central Bank to encourage financial intermediaries
to engage in term lending: incentives would be offered to promote lending to
small- and medium-sized Haitian enterprises. The ongoing Rural Development
Project provides for the preparation of another project which would extend the
scope of the Regional Development Agency's programs to additional areas of the
Northern Plain. A pilot fuelwood project, also under preparation, would
address the severe soil erosion problem and the related need to rationalize
fuelwood production. An urbanization project, being prepared, is expected to
help the poorer segment of the population through upgrading of a produce
market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services assistance in one or two
provincial towns. A third power project has been identified and is in
preparation by Electricite' d'Haiti and its consultants.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and
outstanding came to 28.5 percent as of October 31, 1979. The Bank Group's
share of external public debt service was about 3.8 percent. Its share of
outstanding public external debt is estimated to have increased to about
29.8 percent in 1980, and its share of external debt service, to about 4
percent.



- 6 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structure of Agriculture Production
21.       The agricultural sector contributed about 40 percent of GDP and
about 60 percent of total merchandise exports from 1977 to 1979. About 73
percent of the employed population worked in agricultural activities as
reported in the 1971 population census.
22.       Cash crops in Haiti account for about 34 percent of the total value
of agricultural commodities, of which the most important are coffee, comprising
20 percent of the total value; sugarcane, 10 percent; and cocoa, sisal and
cotton, an aggregate of 4.1 percent.  The major food crops are rice, corn,
plantains and beans, which, together with millet and sweet potatoes, comprise
about 56 percent of total value of agricultural commodities. Livestock
production represents some 10 percent of the total value of agricultural
production. Most farmers keep a few head of livestock; hogs are the most
important (although currently affected by African swine fever), followed by
beef cattle. Animals are viewed by farmers as a form of savings.
Agricultural Production Trends
23.       According to rough estimates of agricultural production, average
annual growth actually declined by 0.7 percent during the 1960-70 period, but
rebounded to an annual growth rate of 2.5 percent for the 1970-79 period.
Because of lack of reliable statistics, these trends should be viewed with
caution, especially as declining agricultural exports and increasing food
imports indicate poor agricultural performance.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
24.       Based on a 1970 survey, about 60 percent of all farms were owned by
farmer-operators, about 25 percent were rented and sharecropped from private
owners, and the rest were under other forms of tenure. The percentage of
landowners with clear legal title is not indicated in the survey, but it is
known that few farmers have clear titles to their land and the lack of security
of land tenure appears to be a major constraint to agricultural progress. Many
farmers not only own land but also rent, sharecrop or farm under other forms
of tenure. The 1971 agricultural census and other surveys showed that the
average number of parcels per farm is around three. Fragmented landhold-
ings, particularly in different ecological zones, are often sought by farmers
because this provides some security against crop failure in any one area.
Wage labor is widely used in some parts of Haiti, but it is not at all clear
whether most of the workers hired are landless. W-hile the evidence suggests
that the number of landless laborers is relatively low, it is clear that many
of those who do occupy land have so little that they must supplement their
farm earnings with income from other sources. The agricultural population
density per 100 ha of crop area is 400 in Haiti, compared with 302 in the
neighbouring Dominican Republic, 244 in India, and 660 in Bangladesh.



25.       According to the 1971 agricultural census, about 46 percent of
farmland was in farms of less than 2 ha and 73 percent in farms of less than
4 ha. Only about 8 percent of farmland is in farms greater than 10 ha; the
larger holdings occupy the most productive flatland and are devoted primarily
to sugarcane.
Tecbnical Constraints
26.       The most important constraint in agriculture is the low level of
production technology. The only producers that apply improved technology
are agribusiness firms growing sisal, tomatoes and sugarcane, and smallholders
in scattered sections of the country following improved practices introduced
through foreign technical assistance. The low level of technology translates
directly into low yields of the main crops. It imparts to Haitian agriculture
one of its main and most paradoxical characteristics: the underutilization of
the productive lowlands and the overutilization of the marginal uplands with
resulting erosion.
27.       The five major areas of technical problems are:  (a) use of low
yielding varieties; (b) poor crop management; (c) inadequate use of water
resources; (d) insufficient soil and water conservation; and (e) endemic pest
problems. Insufficient research accounts for the persistence of technical
problems. Crop varieties are characterized by low yields, long cycles (four
to six months) and in the case of cereals, long stems. These characteristics
make crops vulnerable to drought, parasites, and wind damage. Some progress
was made over the last 20 years with the introduction of improved varieties of
sugarcane, cotton, rice, and maize, but no performance data are available and
an operational system of seed production has not yet been established.
28.       Poor crop management also has negative effects on yields.  Weed
control generally is insufficient, and use of purchased inputs (fertilizers,
pesticides) is limited (most often justifiably, since local varieties would
not give an economic response). Coffee and sugarcane growing are little
more than picking or cutting exercises, with little or no management. Land
preparation by hand is also relatively poor and often constitutes a bottleneck.
Furthermore, lack of quality control adversely affects returns from industrial
and export crops. For example, there is no premium for sugar content of cane
or lint quality of cotton, and poor overall quality of coffee and vetiver oil
(an essential oil) results in low export prices.
29.       Some 226,000 ha of soils may be suitable for irrigation, if suffi-
cient water were available at reasonable cost. Of this area, 66,000 ha
are currently under some form of irrigation, primarily from surface water.
It is estimated that another 11,000 ha could be irrigated without major
investment. The irrigation potential in the country is not precisely known
because of lack of streamflow data and knowledge of groundwater resources.
Only a few thousand hectares benefit from full water control, which is neces-
sary to achieve highest returns from irrigated agriculture. Much of the
irrigation system is old, sometimes dating from colonial times, and in need of
renovation. The irrigation infrastructure has been damaged by floods, espe-
cially by the hurricanes of the 1960s, and water intakes and canals have silted
up as the result of erosion. Many areas are water-logged for lack of drainage



- 8 -
or because of deterioration of distribution systems.  Over-irrigation also is
a problem. Irrigation efficiency is further impaired by the lack of land
leveling, the presence of trees scattered in the fields, and farmers' inade-
quate knowledge of crop water needs.
30.       Soil erosion affects most areas of Haiti; it results from heavy
population pressure on land and forests, scarcity of flat or moderately
sloping land, and poor utilization of soil resources, especially in the
productive valleys and plains. According to FAO estimates, the country loses
some: 15 million cubic meters of soil each year, corresponding to 6,000 ha of
land and although most of the eroded land is still usable, especially for tree
planting, productivity is declining rapidly.  Other erosion effects are:
(a) poor utilization of water because of excessive runoff and higher fluctua-
tions of the underground water supply, causing shortages of irrigation water
in dry areas; (b) disruption of irrigated agriculture, and (c) rapid siltation
of the Peligre reservoir, the country's major hydroelectric source.
Institutional Constraints
31.       The general weakness of agricultural support services has allowed
the above-mentioned technical constraints to persist for a long time. The
most important support elements are the various services of the Ministry of
Agriculture (DARNDR) whose effectiveness is inadequate.  During the 1971-75
period, an average of only 20 percent of budgetary (operating and development)
expenditures was allocated to agriculture (including rural education); the
share from 1975 to 1979 was 24 percent. Even if FL 480 funds in support of
DARNDR's current budget are considered, the picture changes only slightly.
The low share in budget expenditures compares unfavorably with the sector's
important contribution to the national economy and it translates directly into
low salaries for employees and limited outlays for field expenditures (about
5 percent of DARNDR's total operational budget). Of DARNDR's 400 graduate
technicians, less than half are assigned to the districts, giving a ratio of
extension workers to farmers of 1:2,000 -- well below levels necessary (1:800
or less) for a positive impact. Moreover, staff assigned to the field lack
the means to operate efficiently. Strengthened field programs are restricted
to areas or projects supported by external agencies.  The Government is trying
to deal with these constraints by increasing budgetary allocations for agricul-
ture and by contracting technical assistance for DARNDR from a number of
external agencies.
32.       Duplication of efforts, lack of coordination, and lack of effective
programs aggravate the situation. In some areas, district agronomists operate
side. by side with regional development agencies, the latter having first call
on government resources. At the field level, extension services are provided
under the district agronomist, and, to some extent, by the agricultural credit
institutions -- the Institute for Agricultural and Industrial Development
(IDAI) and the Agricultural Credit Bureau (BCA). The activities carried out
by various technical assistance and voluntary agencies are not coordinated,
which often results in poor utilization of resources, and programs are often
fragmented and uncoordinated and lack firm orientation toward specific goals.
The absence of technical packages, which is due to the paucity of research
data and the lack of continuity of technical assistance programs, is striking.
The trend toward the establishment of regional development agencies such as



- 9 -
the Development Organization for the North (ODN), should help ensure that all
agencies within a region move in the same direction and participate together
in well-planned and soundly implemented regional programs. Under the IDA-
financed rural development project (para 35), a covenant provided for the
annual review of DARNDR's technical assistance needs and of the adequacy of
its staff. The reviews did not take place because (a) supervision missions
had to give priority to intricate implementation problems; and (b) sub-
stantial technical and financial assistance is being extended to DARNJDR by
a number of bilateral and international agencies, thus meeting the purpose
of the intended reviews. fTevertheless, during appraisal of the second stage
of a rural development project, a review of DARNDR's need for staff will be
undertaken.
33.       Another important aspect of the institutional framework relates to
the lack of an effective community structure. The Haitian farmer is strongly
individualistic, and an active cooperative tradition is absent. Different
organizations, however, exist among rural neighbors and might be developed to
become instruments of rural development. The coumbites are informal temporary
groups for mutual aid in agricultural tasks such as land preparation, while
the escouades are more permanent, structured groups of 5 to 15 members each
for organized specific tasks. A number of agricultural credit societies
(SACs) have been created to secure credit and ensure collective guarantee, and
community councils have been established throughout the country for community
improvement (road repair, maintenance of irrigation works, school building and
maintenance) through self help. Some councils are effective; while others seem
unable to distribute benefits equitably among their members.
World Bank Group Strategy in Agriculture
34.       Taking into account the inadequate infrastructure, weaknesses of
the support services, especially at the central level, and lack of skilled
local staff, the Bank Group's strategy, and that of other sources of external
assistance, has been to support the Government's policy of regionalization
while efforts are simultaneously made to strengthen the central services
of DARNDR. FAO, OAS and IDB are providing technical assistance to DARNDR to
help its institutional development. This strategy is currently applied in
support of the Rural Development Project in the Northern Department (Credit
675-HA), details of which are given below.
Experience with the Rural Development Project in the Northern Department
35.       The project, started in 1977, aimed at the improvement of physical
infrastructure (irrigation, roads, markets, water supply) and crop production
through applied research, credit and extension. It has, however, experienced
serious problems. Disbursement, at less than a quarter of appraisal estimates,
has been slow for a number of reasons: (a) initial delays in recruiting inter-
national and national staff; (b) weaknesses of local staff and participat-
ing agencies; (c) slippage in counterpart financing; (d) lack of technical
packages; and (e) need to scale down the irrigation component. On the other
hand, with inputs from an effective technical assistance component, a replica-
ble regional development institution has been established and staffed and a
regional coordinating mechanism has been set up, which should lay the basis



- 10 -
for sustained improvement, provided there is adequate government funding and
support. Constraints to development in the region have been identified and
are being acted upon; a successful program of field trials is leading to the
development of suitable technical packages; and potable water supply systems
are being established to serve thousands of people in rural areas. The pace
of implementation of other components, especially roads, has improved recently,
but remains behind schedule. Agricultural credit is being supplied through
the Agricultural Credit Bureau (BCA) which is being strengthened (para 69).
The volume of credit remains below appraisal estimates, primarily because of
the lack of technical packages. The results to date suggest the need for
flexibility in implementation and to ensure the liquidity of the executing
agency.
The Coffee Subsector
36.       Coffee is Haiti's major crop.  It provides productive employment
for about 380,000 growers, who, in turn, account for some 400,000 jobs for
hired labor. It provides the economy with 40 to 50 percent of its export
receipts and government with US$10 million annually in tax revenue, or about
10 percent of total government revenues. It also accounts for about 25
percent of total farmer income. Given the importance of coffee to the economy,
the Government decided, following the onslaught of Hurricane Allen, which hit
the Southern Peninsula in August 1980, to carry out both emergency and longer
term efforts to avoid major declines in coffee production in 1981-82 and
future years.
37.       Coffee farms are mostly owned and operated by small-scale farmers.
Thus, about 34 percent of coffee farms are smaller than 1.3 ha and nearly 90
percent are smaller than 6 ha. Only 25 percent of the total area planted in
coffee is on farms larger than 6 ha. The table below shows the distribution
of coffee farms in the country according to farm size:
Cumulative
Size Range          Number of Farms              Distribution
(ha)                (percent)                  (percent)
Less than 0.61                 15.0                       15.0
0.61 - 1.30                 19.4                      34.4
1.31 - 2.60                30.6                       65.0
2.61 - 6.00                23.9                       88.9
More than 6.00                 11.1                      100.0
Total                 100.0                      100.0
Source: Plan Cafeier National, Faiti 1969-70/1975-76 based
on the 1950 Agricultural Census.
The average yield of coffee beans is about 250 kg per ha; however, yields
as high as 2,000 kg per ha have been obtained on some commercial coffee
farms that are well located, employ good cultural practices and apply
adequate fertilization.



- 11 -
38.       Coffee production has stagnated over the last two decades because
of low farm-gate prices and the increasing competition and profitability of
food crops. Experience has shown that in the wake of each hurricane, farmers
have failed to replace uprooted coffee shrubs shifting instead, to food crops.
While part of this response is due to the relatively high tax on coffee (and
no tax on foodcrops) it is also due, in part, to the fact that until very
recently agricultural services did not have the means to provide seedlings and
support services for coffee.
The Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (PPC)
39.       The project, carried out with USAID support since 1974, has aimed
at improving coffee production and smallholder income through improved techno-
logy, fertilizer, credit, technical assistance (supplied by FA0) and infra-
structure (coffee service centers and access roads). With participating
farmers applying 500 kg/ha, annual fertilizer use for coffee was expected to
increase from 580 tons in year 1 to 5,440 tons in year 5, and average yields
under the project, from 250 to 1100 kg/ha. The PPC project was supported by
a US$6 million loan and is currently drawing to a close. IJSAID is also
sponsoring a small-scale farmer coffee marketing project (US$2.2 million),
started in 1977. The project includes the reinforcement of cooperatives,
the establishment of cooperative washing facilities, and a national coffee
processing center. This project is still in its early stages.
40.       The PPC project reached 12,000 growers whose coffee yields increased,
on average, from 250 to 500 kg/ha, and who, on the whole, benefited from the
project. However, much of the benefit is ascribed to increases in food
crop output, since a substantial portion (probably half) of the fertilizer
was used on food crops. The small coffee grower is actually a subsistence
farmer concentrating on food production; he views his coffee trees as a
savings account which requires little w7ork. The trees of the rustic Typica
variety are not even planted by the farmer, but come from natural reseeding;
they are intercropped with plantain, corn, beans, and fruits, all of which are
usually more profitable than coffee when it is grown in the traditional manner.
USAID now feels that it is difficult to divorce coffee from associated crops
and questions the concept of a pure coffee project, which would not respond to
growers' needs. It also considers that production-oriented incentives must be
complemented by measures designed to reduce the burden of coffee export taxes
and improve the marketing system. While no reduction in coffee taxes can be
expected under this rehabilitation project and would, in any case, not be
feasible until the tax base has been sufficiently broadened, any possible IDA
support of coffee development in the future should be subject to a full review
of the coffee tax situation.
41.       The PPC project's main achievements are that it introduced the use
of fertilizer; established coffee centers as nurseries and for demonstration
purposes, and introduced farm credit to growers. The project also succeeded
in providing effective technical support and created a demand for more produc-
tive varieties, especially Caturra. Close to two million plants were trans-
planted to farms each year in 1978 and 1979.



- 12 -
The Food Crop Subsector
42.        WJhile in recent years farmgate prices of coffee have been stagnating,
food crop prices have been increasing, reflecting the deteriorating food
supply/demand situation in the country, an imbalance also shown by the level
of food imports, which has been increasing rapidly. The production of two
major food crops -- corn and sorghum -- appears to have declined in the course
of the last decade. Food crop production suffered from droughts in 1975-76
and 1976-77. In 1980, output was severely affected by Hurricane Allen in the
South, resulting in a worsening food supply and an increased demand for
imports. In spite of imports, however, the country suffers from malnutrition,
with the average daily deficit estimated at around 200 calories and 19 grams
of protein. Following the 1976-77 drought, DARNDR initiated a food crop
development program based on the introduction of improved packages (improved
seed, fertilization and pest control) for corn, sorghum and beans, but not
much information is available to date on results.
Hurricane Allen
43.        Hurricane Allen struck the Southern Peninsula of Haiti on August 5
and 6, 1980, with high winds gusting up to 150 km/hr. Loss of human life
and damage to infrastructure were relatively light. Government agencies
maved rapidly to restore services. The power company, Electricite d'Haiti,
suffered some US$400,000 worth of damage to a transformer and to transmission
and distribution lines, but it was quickly able to restore service. The
Highway M-aintenance Organization had pre-positioned equipment before the
hurricane struck and was able to open main roads in less than two days and
secondary roads in about two weeks. SNEP, the water supply agency, rapidly
sent water purification chemicals to the affected areas.
44.        Agriculture sustained heavy losses.  The Southern Peninsula, which
accounts for 30 percent of GDP, normally grows about 60 percent of Haiti's
coffee and a substantial share of its cocoa, coconut, fruit, plantain, beans,
maize, cassava, yam, and sorghum.  The Government's estimate of production
losses, including four to five years of fruit production, is about US$403
million, but well over half of this estimate is ascribed to unverifiable
losses in fruit production. Coffee is severely affected and production is
expected to drop by some 6,000 mt this year, or by one-third of the average
annual production of the country. At a minimum, this loss implies a shortfall
in exports of some US$17 million, and in fiscal revenues, of close to US$4 mil-
lion. As shown in the table below, the Southeast (Thiotte-Jacmel area) was
the hardest hit, and losses of the current coffee crop in this area alone are
expected to be about 3,000 mt for the 1980-81 coffee year. The loss of
the remaining 3,000 mt was spread over the rest of the Peninsula. According
to DARNDP estimates, some 20 to 30 percent of this year's food and sugarcane
crops were also lost, as well as 100 percent of the plantain crop. Losses are
estimated at US$122 million for plantains, US$4 million for corn and millet
and US$2 million for cocoa. Plantains are very sensitive to wind damage but
are expected to recover within a year with little need for investment.



- 13 -
ESTIMATES OF AREA PLANTED IN COFFEE DAMAGED BY HURRICANE ALLEN
AND LOSSES OF CURRENT (1980-81) COFFEE CROP BY DEPARTMENT
Losses of
Area Planted   Area Affected    Current Coffee        Expected
Department          in Coffee      by Hurricane          Crop         Export Value
(ha)             (ha)              (mt)        (US$ million)
Southeast          20.184            17,363            3,007              8.6
Grande-Anse        31,318            17,858            1,084              3.1
South              14,016            11,213            1,783              5.1
West                5,135               420               70              0.2
Total         70,653            46,854            5,944             17.0
Source: Mission estimates based on data from the Ministry of Agriculture,
Small Coffee Farmers Project, September 1980.
45.       Winds not only seriously damaged the present coffee crop but they
affected future coffee crops as well by uprooting or permanently damaging some
20 percent of coffee plants. As the major coffee harvest begins in October,
the hurricane struck trees when they were laden with beans that were either
blown off or stunted. As a result, it is estimated that about 44 percent of
the 1980-81 coffee crop in the hurricane area has been lost. Substantial
defoliation and damage to branches also occurred and shade trees were broken
or uprooted. Defoliation impedes photosynthesis and will have a serious
effect on coffee production over the next few years unless trees are fertilized.
As coffee is grown in the shade of other trees, loss of shade trees will shock
coffee trees and also result in production declines. Moreover, when the shade
trees fell, they damaged coffee trees, so that many will require major pruning,
while others will need to be replaced. On the other hand, the hurricane removed
excess shade and pruned and thinned coffee plants, which can thus be expected
to respond to fertilizer use. In addition, according to coffee extension
personnel, the hurricane has motivated growers to improve their stands and has
increased their receptivity to technical advice.
46.       Many farmers promptly began salvage operations by removing damaged
vegetation and initiating cultural practices, on their own or under food-for-
work programs. DARNDR set up a regional organization and began distribution
of seed and fertilizer from available stock. This surge of outside help,
together with local initiatives, means that the first emergency is now over.
There is need, however, for follow up measures to sustain the restoration of
the productive capacity of the area, especially through fertilization of coffee.
Specifically the supply of farm inputs needs to be ensured, particularly in
1981.



- 14 -
Emergency External Assistance
47.       USAID initiated programs amounting to about US$9.4 million, to
provide food, tools, chemical and medical supplies, fertilizer, and logistical
support, while IDB agreed to finance school reconstruction and repair from the
und:Lsbursed balance of an educational loan. It also approved a concessionary
loan of US$5.8 million for road reconstruction and rehabilitation in the
Southern Peninsula and a loan of US$8.65 million equivalent, under the
Venezuelan Trust Fund, to provide local counterpart funds for ongoing IDB and
IDA projects. Other assistance pledged to Haiti includes Can$650,000 from
Canada for food aid and reconstruction, and another Can$250,000 from private
Canadian foundations for food, seeds, and medical supplies. The Netherlands
pledged US$375,000 equivalent for food; the Federal Republic of Germany,
US$433,000 equivalent for reconstruction and another US$280,000 equivalent
through the Red Cross for food. France is providing 4,000 tons of wheat and
the European Economic Community, US$440,000 equivalent for reconstruction
and farm inputs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       As a result of the hurricane damage to agriculture in the south and
southwest of Haiti, the Haitian Government requested financial assistance from
IDA. Following two missions immediately after the Hurricane struck, in August
and September, an agricultural rehabilitation project was identified and
prepared by a mission in November 1980, in close consultation with the agen-
cies that will implement it. A Supplementary Project Sheet is attached as
Annex III. Negotiations were held in W1ashington, D.C. from January 15 to 16,
1981. The Republic of Haiti was represented by Mr. M. Cantave, Director
General of DARNDR and Mr. R. Conte, Director of BCA.
Project Area
49.       The project area is the Southern Peninsula of Haiti, which was
hit by Hurricane Allen on August 5 and 6, 1980. The area includes over
10,000 sq km, or some 38 percent of the total area of the country (see IBRD
Map 15832). The damage was most severe in the Southeast (Thiotte and Jacmel
areas) and in the Les Cayes area. About 1.5 million persons (300,000 families),
of which 1.2 million in rural areas, live in the affected zone. The major
crops in the area are: coffee with 46,000 ha; corn, 80,000 ha; sorghum,
55,000 ha; tubers, 50,000 ha; plantains, 45,000 ha; sugarcane, 35,000 ha;
beans, 30,000 ha; and rice, vetiver oil, sisal, cacao and fruit trees, 65,000
ha. Because of intercropping, those areas are not additive.
Project Objectives
50.       The project would follow up and build upon the emergency measures
taken immediately after the hurricane (paras 46 and 47), and would seek to
rehabilitate coffee and food production. In addition, it would help lay the
basis for future development, including measures to render the area better
able to cope with future hurricane damage.



- 15 -
51.       The project would benefit some 10,000 families living on about
10,000 ha devoted to coffee, food crops and fruit trees. Project beneficiaries
would be those who were most seriously affected among the more progressive
segment of farmers who have already been clients of BCA and PPC and recognize
the benefits of fertilization and management. Also, other farmers who would
be introduced to the use of fertilizers through an intensification of technical
assistance in the project area.
Brief Project Description
52.       To accomplish the above objectives, the project would finance (a) credit
for labor, fertilizer and other inputs to rehabilitate crop production; (b) hand
tools to complement the tool centers operated by DARNDR; (c) logistical support
for the storage and distribution of fertilizer and other inputs; (d) expansion
of coffee nurseries; and (e) construction of 16 farm service centers which
would also provide storage facilities.
Detailed Features
53.       Fertilizer.  In 1979, coffee growers in the project area used some
2,000 mt of fertilizer. The loss of shade trees and defoliation of coffee
shrubs result in an increased need for sustained fertilization to ensure
survival of shrubs. Without fertilizer and maintenance, coffee yields would
stagnate at about 100 kg/ha in the coming years, as against 250 kg/ha before
the hurricane. Fertilization and improved management would enable a more
rapid restoration of coffee production with yields eventually reaching about
500 kg/ha -- the level achieved under the PPC project -- under continuing
impraved management. The average rate needed annually is 500 kg/ha of a
compound fertilizer such as 20-10-20 (percentage of nitrogen, phosphate and
potash, respectively), split in three applications per year (December, February,
and June). This program of fertilization is based on field experience acquired
under the PPC program, and is in line with that of the neighbouring Dominican
Republic. In the case of food crops, fertilizer needs are not well defined
and improved technical packages remain to be developed. However, the experience
of the PPC project has shown that fertilizer has been used profitably by
farmers on food crops. Under the project, USAID intends to supply 5,000 mt of
fertilizer for the 1980-81 crop year (ending October 30, 1981). In addition,
a further 5,000 mt would be obtained under the proposed credit for the 1981-82
season. The use of 5,000 mt in one year represents a sharp increase over current
levels of use (2,100 mt nationwide), but it is necessary because of the damage
caused by the hurricane. The logistical problems created by this large volume
can be alleviated through rental arrangements financed under the project
(para 54) and the increase in technical assistance should help ensure that the
fertilizer is used properly.
54.       Transportation and Storage.  Storage and transportation have been
major constraints to making fertilizer available to users. The project would
therefore, provide funds for the transportation of fertilizer by rented trucks
(US$15 per ton to the main distribution centers and up to US$3 per ton for
distribution to the local centers) and for rental of storage as needed.
Transport and storage facilities are available and have already been used
under UtSAID's emergency relief effort.



- 16 -
55.       Farm Credit.  The volume of credit granted by BCA in the proiect
area and estimates for 1980/81 based on farmer demand have progressed as
follows:
Year                  Gourdes       US$ Equivalent
1978-79              2.2 million        440,000
1979-80              3.4 million        680,000
Estimate for 1980-81        5.5 million       1,100,000
The estimated surge in credit demand in 1980-81 beyond the previous years
rate of growth is largely caused by hurricane related needs. The project
would, therefore, finance this difference over the next two seasons, for an
amount of G 2 million (US$400,000). Availability of this amount under the
proposed credit would allow BCA to meet credit needs in the South without
diverting funds from other regions of the country. Short-term credit under
the project would be used primarily for labor, fertilizer and other inputs,
especially seed. The average level of on-lending would be US$100 per hectare.
Credit would be granted to individuals through SACs which would assume respon-
sibility for repayment. The rate of interest would be 9 percent per annum,
with a 1 percent annual service charge. The inflation rate was 9.4 percent in
1979 and about 12 percent in 1980, and is expected to reach 20 percent in 1981
before declining to a rate slightly above the world inflation rate. Neverthe-
less, given the poverty of the vast majority of project beneficiaries and the
expanded need to borrow for fertilizer purchases, the Government did not
consider it appropriate to press for increases in interest rates under this
project. A proposal to increase BCA's annual interest rate to 11 percent as
agreed under the Rural Development Project (Credit 675-HA) is pending with
BCA's management. BCA's interest rate structure would continue to be discussed
in the context of the Rural Development Project and preparation of its second
phase; any increases in interest rates would be applied to farm credit under
the project. As for other BCA operations, credit is granted upon review by
the credit agent, and is based essentially on the reputation of the borrower.
Qualified DARNDR staff would assist BCA in the selection of credit beneficiaries
and the technical supervision of credit (para 60). BCA would retain repayments
for further lending to the agricultural sector (Schedule 4,C,4, of the draft
Credit Agreement). It is estimated that growers would contribute some 600,000
man days of family labor over two years to operations related to hurricane
rehabilitation, valued at about US$840,000.
56.       Tool Centers.  To satisfy the high demand for tools in the hu-rricane
area (axes, machetes, shovels, pruning shears, hoes), DARNDR has created
hand tool centers with US$300,000 contributed by USAID. The centers have
been established at the level of the agricultural extension districts and
are administered by extension agents who lend tools to farmers free of charge
and are responsible for their recovery. To satisfy demand and complement
the supply procured with USAID and FAO funding, the project would make
available US$300,000 for the purchase of hand tools by DARNDR.



- 17 -
57.       Coffee Nurseries.  Under the PPC project, DARNDR is supplying
some 2 million coffee seedlings to growers annually, but it is estimated that
some 6 million trees were lost as a result of the hurricane. The project
would, therefore, provide funds to expand the capacity of existing nurseries
to satisfy incremental demand. With an average cost of production of US$0.06
per seedling, a sum of US$360,000 would be made available to DARNDR's coffee
department for expansion of its nurseries. The seedlings produced would be
improved varieties, such as Caturra, a variety which is fast growing, highly
productive and less susceptible to wind damage.
58.       Farm Service Centers.  Because of the severe lack of storage
facilities for farm inputs in the country, the Government intends to build
a network of storage centers over the next five years. The centers would be
used primarily to store fertilizer and other inputs, but they would develop
into farm service centers operated by extension agents who would be housed
in the facilities. IJnder the project, 16 such centers would be built in
the hurricane area, each with an average capacity of 360 cubic meters and
a cost of US$15,000 per unit. Construction would be completed by June 1982.
59.       Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would cause
DARNDR to provide designs for the service centers and a detailed implementation
schedule and budget on the expansion of tool banks, the expansion of nurseries,
and the construction of service centers. The submission of the schedule and
budget to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
60.       Extension Services.  The Government has appointed a number of
recently graduated agronomists to reinforce support services in the hurricane
area and help supervise field implementation. Each has been assigned to
supervise four to five rural extension districts. Each district, serving
three to four thousand growers, is staffed by an extension officer and a
development officer. Financing of the operating costs of these additional
agronomists is provided under the Government's budget. Assurances were obtained
that the Government would maintain an adequate number of staff (154 of various
levels) in the project area through the life of the project (Section 3.02(a)
of the draft Credit Agreement); and that it would draw up an extension program
for the affected areas, satisfactory to IDA, to advise farmers in the project
area on appropriate cultivation and fertilization techniques (Section 3.05 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Costs
61.       Total project cost is estimated at US$5.20 million, of which US$3.78
million (73 percent) would be in foreign exchange. Price estimates were made
at end 1980. Project disbursements are expected to be completed by June 1982.
There would be no physical contingency because quantities represent the
maximum that can be absorbed by the participating agencies. The cost includes
US$511,000 in price contingencies, estimated as follows: 15 percent for
fertilizer, 10 percent for logistical support, service centers and tools, and
5 percent for nurseries. Costs are shown in the table on page (ii) of the
Credit and Project Summary.



- 18 -
Financing
62.       Sources of project financing and project items to be financed
are shown in the tables on page (ii) of the Summary.
63.       IDA would finance US$3.2 million, or 61.3 percent of total project
costs. It would finance part of the fertilizer and all of the logistical
support, farm credit, hand tools, nurseries, and service center components of
the project. Some US$2.2 million of the proposed credit would be for foreign
exchange costs while the remaining US$1 million would be for local costs,
mainly for farm credit, transport and storage of fertilizer, purchase of hand
tools, expansion of coffee nurseries and construction of farm service centers.
The total participation by Government in project financing would be US$400,000,
or 7.7 percent of total project cost, which would be for personnel and operating
costs. The IDA credit would be made to the Republic of Haiti, which would
make the proceeds available to DAPRDR and to BCA. The Government would make a
grant of that part of the credit proceeds to be used by BCA for on-lending to
farmers. Local cost financing is recommended on the basis of Haiti's difficult
economic and budgetary situation, which has been exacerbated by losses and
expenditures resulting from the hurricane. USAID has agreed to finance 5,000
mt of fertilizer estimated to cost about US$1.6 million, or 31 percent of
total project cost with contingencies. These funds from USAID are, in fact,
par: of the resources allocated to carry out the Small Coffee Farmer Project,
which had not been used by the commitment closing date of November 1, 1980.
An agreement has been reached between USAID and the Government to purchase up
to 5,000 mt of fertilizer prior to March 1, 1981, the revised disbursement
closing date of the IJSAID loan.
Disbursements and Auditing
64.       IDA disbursements would cover 100 percent of both foreign and
local expenditures under the proposed credit for: fertilizers, hand tools,
nurseries, credit, logistical support and warehouses. As they involve numerous
small payments, local currency expenditures in respect of credit operations
would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditure certified by the BCA.
Similarly, local currency expenditures in respect of logistical support,
tools, nurseries and warehouse construction would be disbursed against State-
ments of Expenditure certified by DARNDR, which is tax-exempt. The Statements
of Expenditure would provide information such as: location of work performed,
total contract value (civil works), expenditure type/description, total amount
paid under the contract or reporting period and cumulative expenditures
(credit operations), total amount to be reimbursed, nane and address of
contractor or supplier, and other references such as purchase order or invoice
number. Supporting documentation for disbursements made against Statements of
Expenditure would be maintained by the BCA or DARNDR, as appropriate, under
certification procedures adopted during negotiations. The Statements of
Expenditure, together with the associated internal controls, would be audited
by Government auditors. The Auditor's Report would be furnished to IDA no
later than four months after the end of the Haitian fiscal year in which the
expenditures covered by the Statements of Expenditure were incurred (Section
4.01(b) and 4.02 of the draft Credit Agreement). Disbursement for fertilizer
would be made by direct payment to suppliers.



- 19 -
65.       Tn view of the severe budgetary constraints in Haiti, and in order
to ensure the timely availability of resources, a special account denominated
in U.S . dollars, with an initial IDA advance of US$500,000, would be estab-
lished at the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (Section 2.02(b) and as a condition
of Effectiveness, Section 5.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). The account
would function as a revolving fund, as it would be replenished by IDA reim-
bursements.
Procurement
66.       Fertilizer purchases (US$1.4 million) financed by IDA would be
procured by DARNDR through international competitive bidding. Purchase of
tools and materials for nurseries (US$0.4 million) and construction of service
centers (US$0.25 million) would be carried out through local procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA involving local bidding or quotations from three
suppliers.
Project Administration and Management
67.       Management Team.  The project would be supervised by a management
team chaired by the Director General of DARNDR (who headed the negotiating
team) and including the General Manager of BCA, the Director of the PPC
Program, the Director of the Agriculture Division of DARNDR and the Chief
Accountant of DARNDR. The team would meet as required to coordinate the
various parts of the program entrusted to BCA (credit), PPC (nurseries),
and District Operations Division of DARNDR (extension services, warehouse
construction and operational tool banks.) The chairman would be responsible
for preparation of the implementation schedule and budget, and control of
Statements of Expenditure. Assurances were obtained that the Government would
appoint the Management Team as defined and maintain it in operation until
completion of the project (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Management Team would be appointed by ministerial order within DARNDR
as a condition of Board presentation of the project to the Executive Directors.
68.       Ministry of Agriculture  DARNDR).  DARNDR would be responsible for
project implementation. It is represented in the project area by four district
agronomists who supervise all field operations (extension, input supply, pest
control, soil conservation, and such projects as the PPC project), and direct
a total staff of 569. In addition, there are 80 agronomists and technicians
engaged in the PPC project. To supplement this normal staff and in response
to the situation caused by the hurricane, the Ministry has now assigned an
additional staff of 154 to the project area (para 60). The Ministry of
Agriculture would directly procure the fertilizer and have it transported to
local distribution centers in the project area. Through its PPC Unit, it
would make arrangements to expand coffee tree nurseries. It would coordinate
the final selection of 16 service center sites and cause the centers to be
constructed.



- 20 -
69.       Bureau de Credit Agricole (BCA).  The Bureau de Credit Agricole, a
farm credit agency within the Ministry of Agriculture, would carry out the
day-to-day activities of making subloans to farmers for labor, fertilizer and
other inputs. BCA extends subloans to farmers at 9 percent (plus 1 percent
annual service charge) per annum to finance labor costs and inputs, and
provides fertilizer in kind, with repayment at the end of the crop year. At
the time the Rural Development Project (Credit 675-HA of 1977) was appraised,
BCA was found to be a weak organization, because of high administrative costs
arising from its network of field offices. Nevertheless as required under the
Credit Agreement, it has submitted to IDA a satisfactory program for its
reorganization and the improvement of its performance. It has started imple-
menting the program, prepared with the assistance of the Credit Union National
Association of the U.S. (CUNA) under USAID financing. CUNA is pursuing its
technical assistance, which is essential for the continued strengthening of
BCA. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
seek to continue technical assistance to BCA during project implementation
(Section 4.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).
70.       Following the CUNA recommendations, BCA began improving its credit
delivery system and its internal efficiency by streamlining its procedures
(reduction of time required for loan processing), upgrading its staff and
improving its portfolio management (accounting and financial reporting).
it is now in the process of decentralizing its operations and expects to
install internal audit procedures by mid-CY81. BCA has been successful in
channeling credit to agriculture and small farmers, but notwithstanding recent
improvements, it remains a relatively weak institution with no prospects of
financial self sufficiency in the foreseeable future. There is little techni-
cal support of credit applications and no technical supervision of the use of
funds. The main criterion for granting credit is the reputation of the
borrower. Credit is channeled exclusively through SACs which ensure collec-
tive gurantee of repayment by members; however, the application of the collec-
tive guarantee idea has had mixed success.
71.       Total volume of lending reached G 3.4 million in 1979-80, as
against G 2.2 million in 1978-79. Recovery is not satisfactory, averaging
85 percent for traditional loans on food crops, but only 40 percent for
coffee loans. With the assignment of additional agronomic staff (para 68),
credit supervision and loan recovery can be expected to improve 1nder the
project. BCA operates three regional offices in the project area and the
recent streamlining of procedures is expected to enable them to increase
their volume of lending and better satisfy the demand for credit.
72.       Considering the estimated 44 percent loss of coffee production
and the urgent help needed by growers in the affected area, fertilizer
financed under the emergency assistance (para 47) was provided free of charge
until the end of 1980. However, starting in 1981, Government intends to
resume charging a (subsidized) fertilizer price. The Government considers
that the subsidy would need to be maintained for a limited time, albeit at
a lower level in order to maintain an attractive benefit: cost ratio for
fertilizer use (para 74). During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that: (a) it would terminate the distribution of free
fertilizer in 1981; (b) it would ensure that the subsidy did not exceed 50
percent of the cost delivered to the final distribution centers; and (c) it
would reduce the subsidy to 35 percent of market cost by 1982 (Section 3.06 of
the draft Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Justification and Risks
73.       Justification.  The project takes into account the implementation
capacity of DARNDR; it would provide inputs, tools, and cash credit for labor
to 10,000 farmers whose farms were most severely ravaged by Hurricane Allen.
Without sufficient fertilizer to offset the immediate and medium-term effects
of the hurricane, coffee production in the area would not recover for several
years due to defoliation, damage to branches, loss of trees, and loss of shade
trees. The 1980-81 crop has already been affected, with an estimated 27 percent
loss (6,000 mt) in national production compared to an estimate of 22,500 mt
before the hurricane. The 1981-82 crop year could also be disastrous if major
efforts were not made to salvage and fertilize plantations, especially on more
productive farms. The country will suffer an export loss of US$17 million for
1981, with little improvement in 1982 if immediate action is not taken. The
rehabilitation operation would help coffee farmers maintain, and eventually
increase, production over the next two to three years.
74.       The project would allow beneficiaries to maintain their production
and income. The hurricane gives coffee growers an opportunity to improve
their trees through natural thinning of excessively dense stands and shade
and to replace missing trees with more productive varieties, especially
Caturra. For food crops, the benefits brought about by the project would be
substantial, although not quantifiable and, in any case, the increase in
output would reduce the need for imported food.
75.       The construction of service centers and the expansion of nurseries
would help strengthen the physical and institutional infrastructure for the
delivery of services to farmers in the Southern Peninsula. While the hurri-
cane has resulted in loss of employment, the project would offer employment
opportunities, through credit for labor to rehabilitate plantations, and
through the construction of farm service centers. The socio-economic impact
of the project is that it would help restore and maintain incomes of some
10,000 mainly small farmers seriously affected by the hurricane. Moreover,
the experience acquired by DARNDR and the establishment of farm service
centers could lead to a larger agricultural development project, suitable
for external financing.
76.       Risks.  IDA's experience in the agricultural sector in Haiti shows
slow disbursement and implementation, primarily because of lack of technical
staff, budgetary constraints and slow authorization of expenditures by the
Government bureaucracy. However, the establishment of a revolving fund with
an IDA advance should reduce the chances of delays in this project. Despite
the improving experience of BCA and the Government's action in assigning addi-
tional staff to the project area, supervision of subloans is likely to be
relatively weak and subloan recoveries by BCA may be a problem. BCA is
increasingly resorting to legal action against delinquent sub-borrowers, with
court rulings favorable to BCA and this should help improve credit recovery.
Another risk pertains to the lending, free of charge, of low-value hand tools
to farmers through the tool banks of DARNDR: it may be difficult to devote
the effort required to ensure their return. Nevertheless, it is a risk worth
taking because it does away with the idea of giving away tools. Moreover, the



- 22 -
concentration of DAPNDR staff in the project area makes it possible to exert
greater control over the use and return of tools. In view of the absence of
proven technical packages on food crops, the risk exists that fertilizer will
not be used to full efficiency in the absence of other improved practices --
which would need years of field trials to develop. On the other hand, farmers
have gained empirical experience under the PPC project on the profitable use
of fertilizers for food crops.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
proposed credit are listed in Section III of Annex III. Conditions of effec-
tiveness would be: (i) that a special account had been opened at Banque de
la Republique d'Haiti; and (ii) that the Government had formulated a program
and budget, satisfactory to the Association, regarding the deployment of tool
banks, the expansion of nurseries, and the construction of farm service centers.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 18, 1981



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                       Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                              REPEREPCE     S  (WFIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             27.8
AGRICULTURAL      13. 9                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCQIE            MIDDLE IN'COF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  APPICA SOrTE  OP SAPARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  100.0        120.0     260.0                   1562.9                     868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..        43.0       57.0                   1055.9                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       3.6         4.2        4.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6          19.8      23.8                     63.4                      28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MIILLIONS)                        8.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2145
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       131.0       153.0      173.0                    28.1                      61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    259.0        300.0      345.0                    81. 7                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.0        41.5      43.5                      41.4                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                          55. 0       54.0      52.9                     54.7                      51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         4.5       3.6                      3.9                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.6         1.5        1.7                      2.7                      2.7
URBAN                               4.4         3.9        4. 1                     4. 1                     4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0        43. 0      43.0                    34.8                      46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        18.0       17.0                      8.9                      16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.0        2.9                      2.5                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..       16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..        5. 0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          104.0       100.0      91.0                    106.9                      94.0
PER CAPITA SUPFLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREIENTS)                    88.0        87.0      93.0                    107.4                      92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.0        47.0      51.0                     65.6                      53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        17.0       18.0                    33.7                      15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      39.0        29.0       23.0                      8.4                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0         47.0       51.0                    63. 1                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              * *      150.0/c       ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..       14.0                    65.9                      31.0
URBAN                                ..          ..       38.0                    80.4                      66.P
RURAL                               ..           ..        7.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCREtA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..           ..         ..                    79. 4
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10600.0     11730.0    5936.0                   1849.2                   14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    11880.0       7460.0    3513.0                   1227.5                    3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1790.0      1370.0    1219.0                    480.3                    1141.5
t'RBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                               ..          3.6       4.4
URBAN                                ..         2.2       4.2
RURAL                                ..         4.3       4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCO
TOTAL                                ..         1.9
URBAN                                ..         2.0
RURAL                                ..         1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                .      .              2. 9
URBAN
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                       ..                        .-



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                        Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV1RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)1
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         49.0       71.0                     99. 7                     61.7
MALE                  50.0        55.0         ..                    101.0                       69.2
FEMALE                42.0        43.0         ..                     99.4                       51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  4.0          6.0         ..                     34.4                      20.6
MALE                   5.0          8.0        ..                     33.5                       29.2
FEMALE                 2.0         3.0         ..                     34.7                       14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)  21.0          19.0        8.0                     38.2                       7. 0
P'UPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0         45.0         ..                     30.5                      36.6
SECONDARY                           13.0        18.0         ..                     14.5                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0        20.0       23.0                     76.3
CO_SUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPU,LATION                         2.0          3.0        3.5                     43.0                      38.8
iADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         20.0      21.0                     245.3                      83.5
1'V RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0. 5         2.6       2.9                      84.2
1EWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
'IHOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        19.0       20.0                     63.3                      24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                       ..                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1967.1       2101.9    2340.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.4         47.4      46.0                      22.2                      38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         74.2       69.8                     37. 1                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.4          7.2       8.0                      23.5                      17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.8         50.6       50.5                     31.5                      38.8
MALE                                  59.7        55.2       55.1                     48.9                      48.4
FEIALE                               52. 1        46.4       46.2                     14.0                      29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        1.0                      1.4                       1.3
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      169.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      144.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      82.0                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       73.0                    332.5
E'TIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       55.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1965-70 average.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25-                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDOICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are dm00 fert  tstrces generally jadged the cost -uthoitative  and reliable, it shouid ale bhe creed that they ray not be inter-
ntaoailly ca-parable becau.oaf ale inch of ceandredi-ed deficitio-s sed coocepte ased by diff eret countries ie ealleating the data.  The data are, eee-
theless, osefol to describe ardors at  agitode, indicare trends, -nd ahroactetsie  -erra-i  _aj-e differenaes between -cturies.
The referee gteraups are (1) the sace ctuntry graop of the sobjeer country sod (2) a country g-op vith soec-h-a higher  -eerege ioaer than the country greap
of  the eehjac aauntey (ecect far "CapItal Surplus Oil Exporters" gassp where "Middle tearer toeth Afrian and Middle last'n is  hosen  he.ause - f stranger
eocia-culturol affilitie.) . IO the tefetenor  grtap data the o-oragee are population weightrd arithretia ceane for eath lodlcatot cnd ehhpn only when at
least half rf  theaaoutries ina garop has data fr that indicator.   Since the arverage of aouotrilr  aong the iodicators dependd  o the availability of
data and is -ot uniforn,  -autio  not be e-ro ined in relatiag  -veragen of one iodiotat to another.  These averages ore only oseful in ro pa.ing the valoe
of oer  ladicator a0t 0 ci=  acang the cauntry and referact   go-pt.
LAND  AREA (thaoa..d ork .)                                                               Psoplotio- per  Nhyniciun - FopolatIon divida by  utnbec 0r practicing phy-
Total - Total stfsecs area  psing 1ad urea end  inelad waters-                           siciaso  qulifted fron-   nedlasi school at uniersiety level.
Agretalotual - Ee. at_  of agricalcural sane oned tenporarily or petereettly           Population  per Nursing Peteso  - Population divided by  unuber of pre-ticatg
for craps, pestates, cachet sad kitaher gardens or to lie fallow: 1977 data.            role and fesale graduate cores, pnacticln  curses, asd .asistet nurse.s
Pspulation perr Hosptae Bed - t         -tal  urben. and coral - Pepsistirs (treal,
NP FOR CAPITA   S) - GNP po  capi e       tim      It  . nt uaket prices, ca-                -ban, and tal) divided by their repective  -nber of  ho            l beds
_antied by sar co rvosion etod as World fool itlas (1977-79 basis); 1960,                  ailablh  in poblic and pritete geceral sad specialized hospital and te-
i970, and  19796det.                                                                      hbilitatior eenters.  Hnpitrls are emtsblithstets premnaently staffed
by ot leant one phymician. Etablihs..enrt providing principally asatadisl
ENEfGY CONSUhPTION PER CAPITA - Aut...  cr osuttot of co -rciral  -rtty (aoal               earn ace nut iRcladed.  Rue   hospitalc, howevee, include helth  nd -dical
sod lignite, pFtoir., natural gan a-c hydro-, roclesc sod geathetral tlne-                centers net permanently staffed by I physicana (bht by a m-dien1 sseietant,
ctaltty) ek kilog-a=e of conlequiralert per capita; 19h0, 1970, sod 1979                  oes-, xidwife, etcr) which offse  ic-patient accon-dstirr and peovide a
data.                                                                                     lirited range of nedical faiitites.  FPr stattistil P=tpes-  htb-n hbPi-
tals include Wlis principal gentral end spetialirtd hbspitals. vAd -eal
POPULATION AND VITAL STArISTICS                                                             hospitauB leal or r- rlI hospitals and medical and maternIty center..
Total Populatio-, _fid-er (=illions) - As of July 1i 1960, 1970, and 19?g               adnieslone per Nospital Bed - Total  sbner of adnienttns en or di t    rarges
dota.                                                                                   frun h-opitln  divided by the comber of beds.
Urban Popolation (aeraent of total) - Ratto of urhanto toto1 popolatite;
diffReret defiritiont of rbus aces say affect co-parability of dita                 nOUSING
a=ongecoutries; 1960, 1970, atd 1975 drat.                                            Average Sire of gonbehold (persons pet hnsesheld) - total, sebs. end rsa-
P'oPulatioo Pro)ctiocs                                                                    A                 ionsehold consists of a gerop of indivduals eRr share living q-arters
Poeplation in year 2000 - Correct popalation projeari.ac  are baerd on 1980             and their rein reels   A boneder or lodger say or say cot bh  included in
coral  population by age srd sco rd their  -ortality and fertility rates,             th  houarhold for statiarical p-rpnes.
Prajettion paraI etere f asrtality rates  .cprise of three level  asdno-            A-erageo -bhr oR persons per coon- toral orban, nd  rsa  - A-eeg.e nun-
ieg lilt nepectancy at birth tncraintg with country's per capita inaome               ber of persons per coon   il rl burn, and earn1 occupied conventiec.l
level, and tesalo life rxpectanpy stabiliaing at 77.5 yeare   The para-               dvollings, teape-tively.  D-wllings eceladr nen-pesatent st               -dcteres end
otetes far fertility rote also hats  three lavelo aexusing decline in                -unncopied ptrts
fertility a_ording to ico-e lo.-n  and pant failY planning perfrorno.I.             Ana.es  to Electricitr (percent of dwellings)  - toral,  hno.g and rurel -
Etch contey is thee  -ssigned one of three nnst oonhinatisos oI sotrlity                              -laventtes l dwelliles with riectricity in living qesrters ns pencectrag
and fertility treeds for projection purpoar.i of total, urha, and rural dwellings respectively
Stationary pooplatie - lentstatona   population thete is no growth siace
thb  bith crat is aqual to ch  dath rate, and also the  ge structure re-    EDUCATON
anls constant.  This is achinved only after fertility ratee drcline to              Adyot  foet tics
the replace=ent  level of eeit et reprodoctito   rate, vhenr eac  genreation             Primary tchnol - trnta, sale and fe=ale - irons toeta, sale and female
of worst replaces itself meetly.  The statio-sry populati-o  tise we                     nenollpent of nil ages at the primary l-eve  as p.r.ontsgr  of reaptetive
esrstnard oc the banis of the pro'erted characteriotico  of the population              prisary school-age ppoplations; carnally incindes thil=ee  aged 6-11
it the year 2000, and the rate of delrne of fertility rate to replace-                  years bat adjusted foe different lengbth  of pri-acy  edeosrion; fee
=t a. teosntries vith  nivtersal eduaation erne1lneot may exceed 100 percent
Year statis..ry population in toesbed - The year when sttinionry population                niece sort psp1s are  elov or shove the offiicial shol age.
tier has been reached.                                                                S--odary sthIel - total,  ale and finale - Crpotnd an cbeer; -ecoidnry
Populstion Density                                                                           sducation rrquiresnat loner four Iesrs of approved primary inetructieo;
tee eq. IOD - Mlid-year populItion pee equate kilo=rt-r (100 herresr-) of                  provides gr-ersi,vcati.on.1, or teacher tranintg instetoti.n.  fee pupih
total  IeI osually of 12 to 17 yearn of age; oerespond-ene cors en are geneesily
tee soq  h=   g-ttulturol land - Co=poted as oboe for sgricoltoral land                    encluded.
Only.                                                                                 Vosational . eroIlcent (-erct of seacon  V) -  .ocatiotal iestittti...
ero>laito- Ant trocture (percent) -  hildre-  (i-it peers), vorking-sgo (15-                 indlude techni-l, irdnteis1, It ether pregraEs which oprente indepes-
64 years), sod reted (65 yee  nd sver) as peren.tagen of =id-year pops-                   deotly or as detrente of erondary instirutleos
Iation; 1960, 1970, ccd 1978 dta.                                                      Pfocl-t ea.hr ratio - prinra, nod serordaty - Total studretn  ennlled in
Population Growth late (percent) - total - Aonnal growth ettes of tota1 rid-                 primary and setn-d-ry levels divided by ewehers of teh-ers in the
year populatioes for 1950-6R, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                        orresponding ieves.
Fepolation Growth Rote (perron_) - _ban - Anoal growth eaten of -bsan pFat-                Adam  literacy  ate (erment) - Liteete adults (sble to read  nd weits)
lstioDs for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                 us I percr.ngta    of total aduIt potplatinn aged 15 yeers and ovder
Oasis Birth late (pet  thountod) - Annual live births per thousand of nid-'ees
Ppoplatin; 1960, 1970, sod 1979 data.                                               CONSUPTION
Crods Death latr  (per thbousad) - Anual deaths per thouand of rid-pent                 Pasoenger CGat  (-er tho-endd pepslation) - Pas.enger cr  co- peine meter
population; 1910, 1971, acd 1921 dua.                                                    earn neating lens then eight persons; accludes enbhlecors, hearten end
Grons R.,rodantion bate - Aerage nnmer of dacghteen nuan  will bae- in                    =ilitap vehilese.
hoe ens'1 tepr-ductive period if the experiences preannt ape-npecifin Ret-             adle Rceanivers  (per -hlusaci porulatine) - All types of rencivers f-r n-dif
tilityrr;aI    uually fiv--y-ear overagen mdn  is 1960, 1920, sod 1977.                 bhrodacat  to genert  l tublic perthoost hd of population; etcolden seli-
PanilA Planng  -dAcceptrs)e   a-nual (thounnode) -  on   torbet of ace-ptots               tensed rsc5iver  incountries sad in years when ergistrf rin of endi sew
of birth-co-trol devices ander a..pi.es of natianal faily planning p-sg-en              wan in tffect; data Roe retent yearn may not be comparable sita  mast
Farily Plantign-Users (corecnt of carried n-ones) - Pernotage of  -arried                 -cntties abolished  ileloig.
wo=nr  of child-bearing afe (15-44 years) who uns  biath-rootrol devies to            TV Rlarivers (per tbeusaed population) - TV receivers  for br..dtsIt to
all sactied women it  cAre age group.                                                    g.ne.-  public per th__nood populario; exclude nolionnsed TV receivers
it coovteirs aod in years when rrgistraioD of TV erts wa  in siffet.
FOOD AND NUrRITION                                                                        Ne-eraper Oieeaistn  (er th.anand Populstian) - Shoes the average ai-a]l-
Iden of Food Production Per Opsta (1969-71=100) - IRdeo of pee capita nnnal               lion of "daily general intreres  newspaper', defined asperiodita1 prb-
peodoctiro  of all ford roneodllee.  Prdodution reclaids  seed and feed and             licotlan  devoted pritiarily  o recreding greeral news   It is considered
in on calendar yesr basis.  Cotrdoditis  cover prirary goods (e.g. susarnat             to he "daily" if it appearst least feat tines aeek
irnteed of tuger) which Its edible and  -otain cotriente (Ie. toffee atd              CiDea annual Attendance per Capito per Tet -Based tn the  -ubehe  of
ten arc sxldesd). Aggregate peod-ction of each countay in based 00                      tickets told during the year, Including ndnieeInls to drive-i  tinemas
nurtiona  aveeagr producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970, sod 1978 data,                  rod =obils  nits
tee capita eupptI  of calore  (peren  of resoqleeente) - Co=ptoed f_ro
enerip equivalent of net food supplies avoilable in conntey pre capita            LA80R I FORC
pan  day. Avilable suppliRe   conprise d.emetiR  prdodctino, imports lens           Total Labor FoPee  (thauseods) - EconeniloIly native perenDs, inading
copatte, and rbofr- in stoc.k   Net supplien ecolode aoisal fed, serds,               arged forees and une=pioyed hot sxclading hosmowiern, neadenta, see
quartitie_stsd in food processing, and loestee I   distribttinn   Require-            Definitions in tarioun coontres are net cIt    mparable; 1960, 197  end
sntr  wr estipated by FAP  binned on physiological oneds for nor-l an-                1928 data.
vity sod health considering  -ricoennoctal tenperstue-, body weights,  ge           Peu9le (drerten) - Fe=aln labor forte at percentogs of total labor forte
a-d sex distriobtion of poysirtire, and alirwieg 10 percent f-r waste At            Agricuiture (patecet) - Labo  force in fariog9 forestry, hnting  nd
hotshold level  1961-65, 1970, snd 1977 dots.                                         fiehing an percentage of ototl loboe fRor; 1960, 1970 sod 1978 dtm.
err cadres ocrly of protein (sarsD  per dna) - Protein  ..nteIt of per topits         lndustry (Percent) - Labor forcs ie riling, coetruction, m-ansf-ttring
car supply of  food per day   Net supply of food it defined an abboe.  Re-             sd electricity, water sod got as percentage of tot-1 inlet foree; 1960,
qadfeenenr  far all counerias estuhlinhed by USDA provide for =niimu                  1970 and 1978 data.
ellownace of 6h  grant of tmtap patao Per day end 20 grant of animal end            Parriranicn late (yercent) - ttal. male, and female - Ptartieipstin  or
pulse protein, If which 10 genaR  should be animal protein   The.e.tand-              activity eaten aretcn-poted as toti, salt  and I f-ale labor forts as
a_dsee lowIer thar thest of 75 gssaR  of totn1 proteti  sod 23 gEars of               psecen.tgss of trts1, male and female popolati-A of allages respectively;
animal protein as snaverngn for the  -red, proponed by FAO in the Third               1960, 1970  end 1975 date.  These are ILO's participatien rtten reflecting
Warld Food Survey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1927 data.                                        age-sexsttre of the population, srd long tint trend.      few tati-
Per mapitt  proteit mu rely fra  asal and pulse-e Protein supply of food de-            ma.ens are frI rPnticesl noorcem
noned fror  eic. s cad pulses in atom  per day;  9191-65l  1920 ad 1927 ida.a   Rcopent =icepdenoc  latio - lati  of potulation under 15 med 65 and over
Child (ages 1-4) Roroality tate (Fee thousand) - annua1 desths per tho,sand in            to the total laber forne.
age Sreup 1-A peara, to ohildren in thi  age grouP; for nest developing acon
trirn data derived fron life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                      INCOh3 DI5TRIBUTION
Fercentae of Peivate Ine (both io  ch nd lied) - RInereid by  1rihe-t
E5Lfe  5areotnecy oc tlrth  (yeses) - Average nsm     of   orn of life   nainiag             percent, riheset 20 percent, poorest 20 perlent, and poorest 40 percent
Life RxpEItancY st Birth (ye ts) - Averag.  -=b.. of y.e-r of lifs  -emai.ins              of hnse.holda.
at birth; 1960, 19)0 -nd 1978 dat.
Itfant N_'tality late (ret thoauasd) - Annual denthI  of infanteander ocFee yt   PO_VET TYtRGRT GROUPS
of age per thonsand lion birtht.                                                       Entietd Absolute Poverty ITcot Lntel (Us$ ter Inpita) - urba and errl-
Access to Safe Wcter (perenet of popalatlon) - tonal, urban, and rotal - Nt                Absolute poveert  lorons level is that itttue levi below which a ninil
NBber of pFople (total, -rban, and rural) with tesnonoble acoes. to ssfe                 nutritionally odequats dist plus essential non-food requirtnts is set
vnter supply (includes ceated sarfacewutort or onteeted boo  _ncoetamtcstnd              afftrdbl.
eater tunh no that fron protected bhot el, springs, and stnnItywvells) a               es           1-ated Reiativs Poverty Inc=e Level (sSt pan  "apit') - orb-n and  rsa  -
pera-otages of rhoir restertrOs popsOatioDs   In an urban areaa pehido                   Rural relative poverty incene leve  is one-third of aveenge pee capiet
fountain orostoripoot located nec or e  that 200 =sterns fran a  oonse sapY be           persolal mcoms of the tratry.  Urban olel is de,i-d feon the natal
considered us being vithin c -res   ble  nooses  d that hast.  Ic raral arson            leveluvith  dj-s-net for higeeorcDt of living in orban areas
er.eacabIs Iccsse  .o.ld i=ply that the irserifo or nebnrn of the housahold           Intimated PDpulstio Islam Absolute Poverty Iamma Level (Rer-nit) - urben
do not have to opted a dicpr-pertitratc part of the diy in fetahidg ths                  and muril  Percent of  ponl.tioe (orban end rursl) wo err "absolute poor".
fatily' I aster oneds.
Acress nRcect- limocsl oser   of gopulation - total. urban  and
ernl - eu=ber of p-eple  total, urban, ad rural) served bynn 'reta
disposal as perecoentge  of  elir respective populaions.  Et-retn din-                                                 fcenocl  and Srain) Dsse  Divisaon
pos.l cay iclud1   the coll-ien nod disp..s1, with or withlot treatoent,                                        as E-ni analysis and Prejections Dep-rteent
of ho,so excreta and w-ste-cater bp unter-borne oyst-e. or the use of                                                                 Octtbet 1980
pit privies an sIiiler Oocea-lations.



- 26 -
Page 4 of 5
HAITI _ ECONOMIC DATA-/
GROSS NATIONAI PRODUCT IN 1979                                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7. constant prices)
US$ Million                 %                                              1965-70             1970-75             1975-79
GNP at market prices           1,259.8                  100.0                                               -0.1                 3.7                4.1
Gross Domestic Investment         180.8                  14.4                                               11.6                13.8                 2.5
Gross National Savings 2/          32.5                   2.6                                               42.3                15.9              -41.7
Current Account Belance          -63.3                    5.0                                                -                   -
Export of Goods, NFS              190.0                  15.1                                                4.4                -3.7                2.2
Import of Goods, NFS              324.0                  25.7                                                4.4                 0.9                9.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added                                                Labor Force                                           V.A. per Worker
USD  Nilliun                7                              US$ million                 %                           US9 Million 
Agriculture                       507.1                  39.8
Industry 3/                       282.9                  22.2
Services                          484.2                  38.0
Total/Average                1,274.1                                                        ..                100.0                                  ..                10
GOVERNHMIENT FINANCE
General <Government 4/                                               Central Government
(G Million)            ' of GDP                                     (G Million)            7 of GDP
i17*=          1979           1975                                  1979            1979           1975
Current Receipts                               877.1           13.8           13.1                                  588.0            9.2            9.3
Current Expenditures                           803.8           12.6           11.7                                  567.7            8.9            8.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                         73.3            1.2             1.4                                  20.3            0.3            1.1
Capital Expenditures                           574.6            9.40            7.5                                436.4             6.9            5.5
External Assistance (net) 5/                   426.5            6.7             5.2                                388.5             6.1            4.5
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970          1975          1976          1977           1978             1979
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                198.2          583.4         779.9         930.6       1159.7           1,353.5
Sank Credit to Public Sector                         189.2          318.0         346.3         288.9          332.0            393.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         65.3         451.3          519.7         657.9          791.5            921.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                      10.0          14.7          15.9          16.8           19.9             21.2
CGonsumer Price Index (1965 - 100)                    114.6          199.9         218.7         234.9          228.8            250.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                                    3.3          18.0           9.4           7.4           -2.6              9.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          -2.1           10.4           8.9          16.6           14.9             18.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          9.9          45.3           15.2          26.6           20.3             16.5
Hot:  All co-nersons to dollars in thia table  re at the averag  eahange rate preveiliag during the period co-o-ed.
1/ Data refers to FY ending September 30.
2/ Does nor include current transfers.
3/ Mining, manufacturing, public utilities end construction.
41 Consolidated accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises.
5/ Mgt disbursements of loans and grants.



- 27 _
Page 5 of 5
EAITI - COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                     MERCMRNDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
1975        1976        1977        1978        1979                                                          U                  _____
(USS Milion)                -
Ifport of Goods, NFS                  105.7       140.6        173.9       199.2       189.6            Coffee                                           53.0            39.3
'mport of Goods, NFS                 -165.1      -218.8      -262.8      -293.7      -323.5             Sugar                                             1.0             0.7
Resource Gap (daficit== -)           _ 59.4      -78.2        -88.9       -94.5      -133.              Essential Oils                                   8.0             5.9
Sisal                                            1.3             1.0
Interest Pay.-nt. (net) 1/             -7.0        -7.2       -12.1       -14.7       -14.3             Bauxite                                          17.7           13.1
Other Factor Paynent. (net)            ...          ..          ..           ..          ..             Aasembly Industry (net)                         18.2             13.5
Net Tranofers                          39.4         65.0     - 63.5         67.9        85.0            Small Industries sodi Handicraft                 16.1            11.9
Balence on Correct Account            -27.0       -20.3           .5       -41.3       -63.3            All Other Co        mmodities                    19.5            14.5
Total                               134.8           100.0
Direct Foreign Investment               2.7         6.8          8.0        10.0        15.0
Nat MLT Rorrowing                      19.7         24,8        62.0        48.1        38.2            EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1979            US$Millisn
Disburse,nents                       24.9        33.3        70.8        57.3         44.9
Amortization                          5.2         8.5         8.3         9.2         6.7             Public Debt, including guaranteed             208.6
RN-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Items n.e.i.                    -18.5          7.5      -19.3        -2.6         26.3            Tota1 Oustanding and Disbured                  2
Increase in Re.e-vas (+r              -23.1        18.8         13.6        14.2        16.2
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Groso Reserves                         12.7         28.3        35.9        46.8        53.1
Net Reserves                          -23.7         -4.9         8.6        22.9        39.0            Public Debt, including Guaranteed                4.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                              Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Imports                              12.9        17.1        23.6        24.5         n.a.
Exports                                     -           -                 -                           IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 30, 1979)        JS$Million
RAFE OP EXCHANGE                                                                                                                                        IBRD             IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed                        -              45.3
Since 1971                                                                                             Ucdisbxsrsed                                     -48.2
TSS1.500 = G5.00                                                                                        Outstanding including Undisbursed                -               93.5
*  1.50 = US$0.20
1/ Includes all factor servic.
-  not applicable
.. .ot  -vail.ble                                                                                                                                        January 30, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1981)
---------$ Million …
(less cancellations)
Loan. or
Credit                                                     Bank
Number        Year       Borrower           Purpose       Amount      IDA      Undisbursed
One loan and four credits have been fully disbursed           2.6     46.4
618-HA        1976     Republic of Haiti   Education                   5.5          1.1
675-HA        1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development             10.0          7.3
757-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Water Supply                6.6          3.8
770-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Education                  10.0          8.7
807-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion                    15.0          4.1
895-HA        1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                      16.5         14.0
Total                               2.6    110.0         38.9
of which has been repaid    2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                         0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             110.0 1/
Total undisbursed                                        39.0
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
C.   EEC SPECIAL ACTION FUND
4-HA          1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                       6.0          3.3
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECT IN EXECITION 1/
Credit 618      First Education Project; $5.5 Million Credit of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30. 1981.
The project is about 14 months behind schedule due to original
start-up delays in school design and in contracting for construction, and
subsequently because of climatic conditions and six months of administrative
problems, including a shortage of counterpart funds. Some 50 (of 65) rural
schools have been completed and are in use, and the rest will be completed
by the end of September 1981. The three teacher training colleges will be
completed by June 1981. There has been considerable progress in the educa-
tional aspects of the project, including curricula revisions, teacher training
and communal use of school facilities. The problem of counterpart funds has
been largely resolved between the Ministries of Finance and of Education.
Credit 675      Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Substantial progress was made in 1980. The Water Supply component
is proceeding well and will be expanded and agricultural field trials have
been successfully carried out and will be expanded. Administration and
staff problems in the Organisme de Developpement du Nord, the project agency,
have been largely resolved, but lengthly procedures for approval of local
expenditures and delays in the provision of counterpart funds still continue.
On the other hand, disbursements are well behind schedule because of delays
in feeder road construction, irrigation rehabilitation and rural credit
components. Weaknesses continue in the extension service provided to ODN by
the Ministry of Agriculture. Some progress has been made recently in feeder
road construction.
Credit 757      Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; $6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants and delays in issuing bid documents
and the subsequent need to rebid for three of the seven project towns, for
which satisfactory bids were received in July 1980. Technical assistance from
PAHO is proceeding well. Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) is considering
financing two of the three towns included under a related UNCDF project (which
IDA is administering) because of a shortage of UNCDF funds and bids higher than
expected.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit 770      Second Education Project; $10 Million Credit of March 16,
1968; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project is about a year behind schedule
because of initial start-up delays; subsequent administrative problems;
changes in the consultants' contract and delays in purchasing cement on a
tax-free basis. A revised construction schedule still allows completion of
school construction (46 units of various types) by the original Closing Date.
The educational component is proceeding satisfactorily. Performance of the
Project Unit, and of consultants, is also satisfactory.
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Project; $15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
(a)  Road Component:  This includes construction of 54 km of roads in
the Northern plain, 13 km in the Southwest, construction of two
bridges and preinvestment studies of high priority projects in
the transport sector. Work is substantially on schedule and no
serious problems have been encountered.
(b)  Coastal Shipping Ports Component:  This includes construction of
two coastal shipping ports in the Northwest and Southwest and of
a main coastal shipping port in Port-au-Prince. Construction is
about 10 months behind schedule largely because of hurricane damage
to the contractor's facilities in the Dominican Republic (his
home base) last year and a delay in obtaining permits to transport
dynamite. This has now been resolved. Training of coastal shipping
port staff has been rescheduled to coincide with the estimated
completion of port construction. Management advisory services are
proceeding well, though a study on the development of coastal
shipping was delayed by the illness of consultant's staff.
Credit 895         Second Power Project:  $16 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC Special   Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
Action Credit 4   April 24, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
These two credits were declared effective almost 11 months after
signing because of delays in contract award. These delays arose because of
opposition to the award to the lowest evaluated bidder within Electricite
d' Haiti (EdH). The contract with suppliers was signed in April 1980, and
with the new consultants, in June 1980. EdH's financial performance is
satisfactory. Government arrears due to EdH increased from $1 million at
appraisal, to about $1.8 million before declining to $1.2 million. EdH's
Chairman is taking steps to ensure settlement of bills as rendered.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
POST - HURRICANE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification
(1)  Project prepared by:      Implementing agencies, with the
assistance of Bank staff
(2)  Initial request for IDA financing:   August 1980
(3) First mission to consider project: August/September 1980
(b)  Appraisal mission departure:  The project was not formally appraised.
It was prepared and evaluated by missions
in September and November 1980.
(c)  Negotiations Completed:        January 1981
(d)  Planned Effectiveness Date:   April 1981
TII Special IDA Implementation Action
At effectiveness, disburse US$500,000 to a Revolving Fund
in the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (para 65).
III. Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
1.  the Government would provide IDA a detailed implementation schedule
and budget regarding the expansion of tool centers, the expansion
of nurseries and the construction of farm service centers,
(Condition of Effectiveness), (para 59);
2.   the Government would maintain 154 staff of various levels
until completion of the project, (para 60);
3.   the Government would draw up an extension program, satisfactory to
the Association, to advise farmers on appropriate cultivation and
fertilization techniques, (para 60);
4.   Government would establish a revolving account in the Bank of
the Republic of Haiti (Condition of Effectiveness, para 65);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5.   the Government would maintain the Management Team in
operation until completion of the project, (para 67);
6.   The Government would seek to continue the technical assistance
being provided to BCA (para 69); and
7.   The Government would reduce the subsidy on fertilizer to 35 percent
by 1982 (para 72).



73' S30               A3) i,                                                   72' 30'                                 72' 00     Th.o dap ha  t pcc,,pcc Rh the
0.0 A                                                                                                                                                      Wodd Reck 3 chaff dcclcc,velP fcc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1d M  .ff-'W
A- T s         A TI A N TI C                              A  T  L A  N  T   C                                                                     ASC A                                          --          - l.,
2, _00'                                                                                               A  T . A IV  O  C F A N                                  h,.p -
0  A-0                                       C~~~~OEAN    C C A N              VITPORT SRE PAlX                            /W- l                                                                ld,co~hc Iogc -- 
12'                                       -,       -       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S --`LU
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
;   X---->  t--REPU8LNCAN                                                                                                     C'                      EBORGNE 
N     JAMtA           '0          "3, PUERLO RICO                         MOLE ST. NICOmA
PS   HURAIRANEPORT MARL0 RA I                                   O   POE                                                                                                 EAITINN    '
h h O APIOPP~&A A SpA    AR sriiesd                                 AR RDRSOPOLCIS                                      G OROS MORNE GLI
10. ~  ~      ~      --A phi  Under 300ntrch3 4IE5    A5I  Piri   07 20~IOND  TERIE 5;                                                    8NT                                                   
74' 30'  14- 00'                              aly                                                PLAISANCE               ml           R)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT 0
30' III                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                ~       ~~~H  A   I T I  POPAINTND  RSANME
,:DHY5_           j                               SO,                  C    (\\C                 T \ %                  Xs           }9                             19400E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,4IER1,LLIRE
POST HURRICANE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION  PROJECT                                                                                  GONAVS                 P N             OTAIAc'S' 6VLES,
P-o1Rct Area                     Regional Offices      Ar,rCdtuaIA  Extentson                                                                  I
ROADS                                  J ~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Ct'ed,
-        ,JEREMIE CrtAsphalt, Reconstructed                                                  G                                                                          fcRNDELLN k '
----Asphalt, Under Recoustfuct,rc                                                                                                                                                     ERAL >
Aspholt, Old                                                                                                                                                                     SO'_R*
GroveL'0                                                 IT      30     30      dO                MAC                         ONEITIEINC                             \ 
… -----   Eorth
VETRTI S    0~~~~~~o,>             0-10 ~~ TtROMASSIOU  T
PKYSLOGRAPHY                                                                                                                                             ct"0                              0 3
0                              ~~~~~~~~~MoPuhtctn Ranges
Plateau                                                IOA
RiverSPp                                                                                                                                                              0 P 
Deport ment RoounclesSAE                                                                                                                  EUc           C'           ACRBA         - 
-    - lotornotiOonl Bounodoc,es01, c"APST/
AACAH I ~~~~~~~~~A~NETTEI
CAPE ROSE                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
MORON ~~~~   ~~ROSEAo0 ~~ CAI >ERPA'0~                                                                                                      Oh-o,vop4'ccc
T~AME-A CR                R C  -_Ch30RAIL                        <-'       RAADERE PENIOdIAVUA                                                                      CROIX M l               COaX
01010          ,P~~~~~~~~~    PESTEL ~'pcPETIT TROU                                                                          OR            C
AN30A,APC  -A-VEAU                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8 3 
TSIHAINAUO ,         pCAS ,'--'~   ~0-0~__S   PAIIE
hO   A'                               A~~~~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~       ~~~~RAD'ERES  DI~T  S EIEPES
LES IROb                                                                               C,M cp o'~
LA CAHOUAN E          CM   ERN (cc                                            ~ -~-                                                       '     y  3
TIROO    ~         -A~ES ANGLAIS                                            STAM015 -PE,                                                                                                                 Q -    7-HE*
RfT-A OIMENT                                                                                               r ONRS 00                                                -         O    ASE, 
CLITEAO< 
RDIHF-A-BATrAU6N                                                                          -DEFCAPERA MER                                                                    GRANS D
R0PEIF-ARATEA0~  RANT ST JANE
PORT-SALO          TJA       - 
SOSS'JACdE5C    A    A1   /8 8    E  A N/                                         E TAANEPIRO
POINT ORAVT                                                                                                                                                                     SEz23hT~-'
74-PO'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~3'773- 0072.'
1P00n  ' 0                                 7,



