;LiT          CREDIT NUMBER 1106 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1106 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (al, X-3                   , 1981, between
the REPUBLIC OF HAITI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Ministry" means the Ministry of the Borrower respon-
sible for Agriculture;
(b) "Bureau" means the Agricultural Credits Bureau of
the Ministry; and
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,600,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Ministry to open a Special Account in the National Bank
of Haiti denominated in dollars on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Payments out of the Special Account
shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable costs of goods and
ser%rices required to carry out the Project and to be financed
under this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto.
(c) The Association shall, promptly, after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
under Category 7 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 hereto
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in dollars
equivalent to SDR 390,000. Thereafter, at the request of the
Borrower, the Association shall further so withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
equal to payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures
for the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement, but
only to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together
with any amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of SDR 390,000. Except as the Association shall other-
wise determine, each such deposit after the initial deposit shall
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
same Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts, as have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit by
the Association into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that
the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or


﻿-3-
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal
from the Credit Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association-and, unless
otherwise determined by the Association, prior to *any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the
Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (c) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals from the Credit Account can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account under paragraph
(a) of this Section, or when the total amount withdrawn from the
Credit Account plus the amount of any qualified agreement to
reimburse made by the Association and of any special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 2,210,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Credit Account of the remaining amount of the Credit for the
Project shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association and shall be made only to the
extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the evidence
submitted in support of the applications for such withdrawal that
all payments by the Borrower out of the Special Account were made
on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1982 or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1991, and ending December 15,
2030, each installment to and including the istaillment payable
on December 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall continue to employ in the area
of the Project until the completion of the Project: 11 District
Directors, 11 District Coordinators, 22 Extension Supervisors and
110 Extension Agents.
(b) To ensure the necessary coordination and supervision
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a manage-
ment team comprised of the Director General of the Ministry, as
Chairman, the General Manager of the Bureau, the Director of the
Coffee Production Section, the Director of the Agriculture
Division of the Ministry and the Chief Accountant of the Ministry.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the


﻿-6-
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. In order to advise farmers in the area of
the Project on appropriate cultivation and fertilization techni-
ques, the Borrower shall establish and carry out an extension
program satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) as from the date of
this Agreement, charge a price to farmers for fertilizer made
available through the Ministry; (ii) ensure that the subsidy
element in such price not exceed 50 percent of the cost of ferti-
lizer delivered to final distribution centers; and (iii) unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, reduce such subsidy by the
beginning of 1982, to not more than 35 percent of such cost.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) all operations and
accounts with respect to the Project be kept separate from the
other operations and accounts of the Ministry; and (ii) that the
Ministry retain, until two years after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures for the Project on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account under this
Agreement on the basis of certificates of expenditures and enable
the Association's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts for
the Project, including the Special Account, audited for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿-7-
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audits by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the f ore-
going, separate opinions by said auditors (A) on the Special
Account and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to 'n Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure were used to
make payments for goods received, or works or services performed,
and that such goods, works and services were eligible for financ-
ing under this Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the
Project; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audits
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to strengthen the
operations of the Bureau, and for the purpose, shall use its best
efforts to retain the technical assistance being provided to the
Bureau.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Account has been opened; and
(b) the Association has received from the Ministry detailed
budgets and schedules of implementation for the deployment of tool
banks, the expansion of nurseries and the construction of service
centers inc.luded in the Project.
Section 5.02. The date              I31? /, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                     Telex:
SECRETAIRERIE D'ETAT DES           2030347
FINANCES ET DES AFFAIRES      FINANCE
ECONOMIQUES
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Byv Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Fertilizers                  1,100,000        100%
(2) Hand tools and imple-          160,000        100%
ments
(3) Domestic transport             100,000        100%
and storage inputs
(4) Agricultural credits           240,000        100% of amounts
disbursed by
the Bureau
(5) Construction of farm           160,000        100%
service centers
(6) Expansion of nurseries         200,000        100%
(7) Initial deposit in
Special Account                390,000
(8) Unallocated                    250,000
TOTAL              2,600,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or


﻿- 11 -
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to rehabilitate coffee and food
crop production in the hurricane-stricken South and Southeast of
Haiti and to provide a basis for future development in the area.
The Project includes:
Part A:
Expansion of the Bureau's program of agricultural credits
to farmers for labor, fertilizers and other inputs, following the
policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 4 below.
Part B:
Acquisition of agricultural tools and implements and their
use in the tool banks of the Ministry.
Part C:
Expansion of the capacity of the Ministry's nurseries to
produce coffee seedlings.
Part D:
Construction of 16 storage centers averaging about 120
m2 each for storage of inputs and to be developed into farm
service centers to be operated by resident extension agents.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1982.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Tools and implements, materials for the expansion of nur-
series and contracts for the construction of storage centers will
be procured under the Borrower's applicable procedures.


﻿- 14 -
C. keviewof Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for fertilizers:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as


﻿- 15 -
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 16 -
Schedule 4
Lending and Operating Policies and
Procedures of the Bureau
A.   Purposes of the Credits
The Bureau's regional offices in the area of the Project
(Thiotte, Jacmel, Fond des Negres, Jeremie, Port-au-Prince)
will make short-term credits to eligible farmers and to Agricul-
tural Credit Societies for expenditures for inputs such as fertil-
izers, seeds, pesticides and hired labor, which are related to
coffee and food crops affected by the hurricane.
B.   Eligibility
In order to be eligible to receive a credit, a farmer
must have a credit record satisfactory to the Bureau. Priority,
however, will be given to Agricultural Credit Societies operating
in the hurricane-affected area.
C.   Terms and Conditions
1.   The Bureau will be responsible for extending cash
credits, administering credits in kind for fertilizer
and other inputs supplied by the ministry, and for
recovery of all credits.
2.   The credits extended will be short-term, to be repaid
within one year.
3.   All credits will bear interest at the rate of 9% per
annum and will carry a 1% service charge or higher if
the Bureau makes the decision to increase it.
4.   The funds repaid will be retained by the Bureau for use
in its further agricultural credit operations.
D.   Procedures
1.   Individual applications for credits on behalf of members
of Agricultural Credit Societies will be consolidated
by the Societies. The credit agents of the Bureau
will review all applications, including the individual


﻿- 17 -
farmers's farm plans and budgets, financing require-
ments, repayment abilities, debts and family needs, and
the technical recommendations of the Agricultural
Extension Service. The applications, with comments and
recommendations on the basis of such reviews, will be
submitted to the regional office of the Bureau for
approval within two weeks of such submission.
2.   Credits will be disbursed, to the extent possible, in
kind, that is, in the form of fertilizers, pesticides
and seeds.
E.   Supervision
1.   The Bureau's credit agents will be responsible for the
supervision of the Credits, including the verification
of their use and the repayments from the borrowers.
2.   Extension agents will regularly visit borrowers to
ensure that farmers effectively carry out improved
practices and make effective use of the inputs supplied
under the credit.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198A-.
FOR SECRETARY


