Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2851 
Project Name 
Mizoram State Roads Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Roads and highways (95%); Central government administration 
(5%) 
Project ID 
P069889 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (GOI) 
Implementing Agency 
 
Public Works Department 
Tuikhuah Tlang 
Aizawl 
Mizoram 
India 
Tel: 0389 2324001 
 
Government of Mizoram 
Tuikhuah Tlang 
Aizawl 
Mizoram 
India 
Tel: 91-389-2322176  Fax: 91-389-2323349 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 7, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 21, 2001 
Date of Board Approval 
March 21, 2002 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1.1. 
State context and geographical isolation.  
Mizoram has a population of about 1 million 
people and an area of about 21,087 square km giving it one of the lowest population densities in 
India. It is located at the southern end of the Northeast of India and borders with Bangladesh and 
Myanmar. The terrain of the state is predominantly hilly or mountainous. The socioeconomic 
development of Mizoram was negatively affected by the loss of access to Chittagong Port 
following the partition of India. As a result of Partition, access to the nearest sea port - Kolkata 
–
now involves a 1700 km trip around Bangladesh that takes between six to seven days from 
Aizawl, the capital of Mizoram. Within the state there is no rail infrastructure and there is only 
one airport which is still poorly served by the airline industry. The nearest major city from 
Aizawl is Guahati (in the state of Assam) which is about 500 km away. It takes about two days to 
cover the distance because of the underdeveloped and poor state of the road network. As a result 
of its geographic isolation and poor infrastructure, Mizoram has not been able to develop 
economically as quickly as parts of the rest of the country. To this end, the Government of India 
(GOI) now places high priority on mitigating the effects of geographical isolation, and provides 
targeted assistance to Mizoram and the other states of the Northeastern region.  
 
Page  2
1.2. 
Poor carrying capacity and condition of road network
.
The road network provides the 
only means of transport for goods and people within Mizoram. It consists of a total of about 
6,840 km of low capacity and poor quality roads, including: (a) 885 km of National Highways 
(NH); (b) 225 km of State Highways (SH); (c) 3471 km of Major District Roads (MDR) and 
Other District Roads (ODR); and (d) 2,259 km of mostly unpaved village roads (VR). The entire 
Mizoram state road network consists of what are classified as single lane roads (about 3/3.5 m 
wide carriageway) and less than 1,000 km (about 15 percent) is at present paved. The majority of 
the state roads are in a poor condition with potholes, ruts, cracks and landslide-prone areas. Poor 
road quality and inadequate carrying capacity thus contribute to low riding quality, low travel 
speeds and high vehicle operating costs. This translates into costly and slow road travel, with 
average travel speeds of about 10-15 km per hour. Depending on the season, it takes about six-
nine hours to cover the 171 km between, Aizawl and Lunglei, the two largest cities in Mizoram 
with about a third of the state's population. Finally, because of un-bridged river crossings, 
inadequate drainage, and landslides, part of the road network is often impassable during the 
Monsoon season (June-October).  
 
1.3. 
Weak institutional capacity to manage road network
.
Being one of the youngest and 
smallest PWDs in the country, the Mizoram Public Works Department (PWD) still lacks the 
necessary breadth of skills, resources and experience to adequately manage the state road 
network. Furthermore, the absence of an effective roads policy and legislative framework, the 
limited state level roads funding and very limited local road contractor capacity, have all 
contributed in Mizoram to the inefficient planning and development of roads, relatively poor 
construction quality, inadequate maintenance of the road network, and delays in the execution of 
works. This is further compounded by the fact that the development and maintenance of roads in 
the state is currently shared among four different agencies (PWD, Rural Development 
Department, Border Roads Organization (BRO) and Ministry of Roads, Transport, and 
Highways (MORTH). 
 
1.4. 
Insufficient funding for road maintenance and poor maintenance planning
.
State 
allocations for road maintenance currently meet only about 50 percent of requirements as per the 
current maintenance norms and have been significantly below objective requirements for several 
years. A major portion of these funds are absorbed by nondiscretionary PWD salary/wage 
obligations, leaving only a small portion available for actual road maintenance. The limited 
budget available to the PWD, together with increasing demands for new road construction and 
major road rehabilitation, have resulted in the neglect of road maintenance, leading to a serious 
deterioration of the already very limited road asset base in the state.  
 
1.5. 
GOM's road sector strategy
.
One of GOM's key development objectives is to improve 
the road network to facilitate access, and hence development opportunities to all parts of 
Mizoram. This strategic objective is already supported in the ninth and tenth State Plan which 
focuses on providing road connectivity to unconnected villages and completing ongoing road 
projects. GOM has also drafted a comprehensive Road Development Policy (RDP) to give a 
more strategic focus to the road sector and the process of road sector reform. Furthermore, GOM 
is participating in a number of Centrally-sponsored development programs that target rural road 
development. 
 
Page  3
2. Objectives 
 
2.1 
The principal development objectives of the project are to improve the management and 
carrying capacity of the Mizoram core state road network. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
3.1 
International Development association (IDA) is in a unique position to respond to the 
challenges and opportunities posed by the road sector in India by: (a) providing critical long term 
capital and expertise needed to support accelerated growth and alleviate poverty; (b) leveraging 
its lending volume and its advisory capabilities to facilitate the institutional and policy reform 
process; and (c) ensuring that the social development and environmental concerns of large road 
infrastructure projects are fully reflected and integrated in project design, preparation, and 
implementation. Based on the design of similar state road projects in India and other relevant 
worldwide project experience, IDA has developed a customized state-level approach to improve 
road sector management and financing. This well tested approach forms the basis of project 
identification, design and implementation for the Project. Furthermore, IDA's involvement in the 
roads sector in Mizoram should facilitate the mainstreaming of 'international standards' within 
the PWD in the following areas: (a) economic analysis for road infrastructure investments; (b) 
supervision of civil works; (c) procurement and selection of contractors and consultants; (d) 
project, contract and financial management; (e) social and environmental screening and 
management of large road infrastructure projects; (f) intra-sectoral linkages and cooperation; (g) 
cost effective design and engineering of roads; (h) dispute resolution mechanisms; (i) quality 
assurance policy and systems; (j) public accountability and transparency in roads management; 
and (k) improved business practices, procedures and processes. 
 
4. Description 
 
4.1 
The Project is funding six major components: 
Improvement (widening and strengthening) of about 184 km of state roads, 
Implementation of Resettlement & Indigenous People Development Plan (R&IPDP), 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Environmental & Social 
Management Plan (ESMP) for the civil works components, 
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 300 km of state roads, 
Design, supervision and technical advisory services for the civil works components, 
Institutional strengthening including equipment, Technical Assistance (TA), training and 
pre-investment studies, 
Road safety engineering. 
 
4.2 
Additional Financing: The project is facing cost overruns to the tune of about USD 24.0 
million, primarily due to higher cost of works and construction materials among others and not 
on account of any enhancement in scope of the project. The most significant cost overrun was in 
road improvement component (both Phase I & II). The cost escalation in Phase I improvement 
works (about 23% over estimated cost) were due to poor performance of the contractor leading 
to severe delays and finally contract termination and reengagement of new contractors. Phase II 
road improvement contract was awarded about 35% higher than the estimated cost, primarily on 
Page  4
account of the bidder’s perception about the difficult terrain and remoteness of the project, 
scarcity of quality construction materials and local labor and major changes involved in the then 
ongoing Phase I improvement works. To bridge the cost overrun, GOM requested through the 
Government of India for an additional financing of USD 18.0 million from IDA. 
 
4.3 
Rationale for Additional Credit: The additional credit can be justified as the causes of the 
cost overrun were mostly beyond the control of the Government of Mizoram. Moreover, 
Mizoram, a special category state on account of its being part of the underdeveloped 
Northeastern region of India, would find it financially difficult to absorb the entire cost overrun 
impact. Further, it would be important to complete the ongoing activities as planned in order to 
achieve the original development objective. Without the additional financing, the project 
development objective will be seriously compromised as the expected travel time and cost 
benefits associated with road improvement component will only be partially realized. 
 
5. 
Financing (
at the time of Project Effectiveness) 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
10 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
60 
 Total 
70 
6. 
Financing (
revised as on February 2007) 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT (original contribution) 
10 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (original credit) 
66* 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT (additional contribution) 
6 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (additional credit) 
18 
 Total 
100 
*
Due to appreciation of SDR against $, original credit amount was SDR 47.5 million (equivalent to $60m, at the 
prevailing exchange rate in 2002) 
 
7. Implementation 
 
7.1 
Project oversight, policy guidance and coordination
.
A
GOM Steering Committee and 
Works Advisory Committee (WAC), chaired by the state Chief Secretary and including the 
heads of key line departments, have already been established to provide necessary inter-
departmental coordination and support for the preparation and implementation of this project.  
 
7.2 
Executing agency
.
The PWD has overall responsibility for project implementation. As 
part of the project, actions are being taken to reconfigure and equip the PWD for strengthened 
and sustainable management of the road network. This should ensure the widespread 
dissemination and sustainability of the new methods and technology introduced by the Project 
which is the first Mizoram-specific project funded by IDA. 
 
 
Project management. A project management team has already been set up within the PWD. It is 
headed by a Project Director and staffed with high quality staff from within the PWD, as well as 
specialists from other relevant GOM
 
Departments; more specifically, staff with expertise in 
social, environmental, procurement and financial management has been brought into the PWD, 
on a dedicated basis, to manage the implementation of all project components. Internationally 
Page  5
experience Project Coordinating Consultants (PCC), supervision consultants, technical advisory 
Consultants (TAC) and technical assistance (TA) consultants have been assisting the PWD in 
implementing all project components. 
 
8. Sustainability 
 
8.1 
Sustaining the project benefits will largely depend on GOM's commitment to: (a) 
strengthen the capacity of the PWD to manage the road network; (b) provide increased and 
sustained levels of maintenance funding; (c) mainstreaming the new business processes, policies 
and techniques that the PWD has/will be exposed to in preparing and implementing the Project; 
and (d) finalizing and implementing the RDP (Expand please). Within this context, the main 
objective of the ISAP is to strengthen and modernize the PWD to more effectively and 
efficiently manage the state road network.  
 
The successful implementation of the ISAP should improve the technical, operational and 
managerial capabilities of the PWD in its role as GOM's road network manager, which should in 
turn ensure the sustainability of the road network. Furthermore, to decrease the maintenance 
funding gap, GOM has already committed itself to substantially increase maintenance funding in 
real terms by the end of the project. GOM has stated its intent, if technically and financially 
feasible, to introduce a dedicated Road Fund to improve the sustainability of road maintenance. 
The increased effectiveness and efficiency of the PWD in managing the road network together 
with increased and more stable maintenance funding, should ensure the sustainability of the large 
investments that GOM is planning to make in the state's road infrastructure asset base. 
 
9.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
8.1 
IDA's growing experience in the transport sector in India has shown that successful road 
projects need: (a) strong client ownership and willingness to implement institutional change; (b) 
quality at entry; (c) strong institutional capacity for project management, consultancy and 
contract administration; (d) experience with the Bank's social, environmental, financial 
management and procurement rules; (e) strong interdepartmental coordination; (f) completion of 
land acquisition and substantial implementation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) and EMP 
before start of construction works; (g) strong contractor and consultant capabilities; (h) 
enforcement of applicable construction standards; (i) long term provision of adequate 
maintenance funding; (j) provision of adequate and timely funding for ongoing civil works 
contracts; and (k) low turnover of key project staff. 
 
9.2 
As a direct result of the experience gained in preparing and implementing several road 
projects in India, the preparation and implementation of the Project incorporates the following 
key lessons: (a) comprehensive and quality preparation of engineering, social, environmental and 
institutional aspects to ensure quality at entry; (b) early implementation of catalytic policy based 
institutional strengthening measures to enhance institutional capacity for both effective project 
management and improved road sector management; (c) strict pre-qualification/selection of 
contractors/consultants; (d) enhanced interdepartmental coordination; (e) empowerment of 
implementing agency (PWD) in all contractual, financial and road/Right of way (ROW) 
management activities required to implement the project; (f) involvement of key stakeholders in 
Page  6
project preparation and implementation; (g) development and modernization of contractors 
through efficient and transparent procurement, improved project management and enhanced 
contract administration; (h) introduction of road funding measures to ensure sustained increases 
in road maintenance funding; (i) implementation of a Financial Management System (FMS) to 
monitor all aspects of project implementation; (j) upfront preparation and implementation of 
RAP and EMP; and (k) linking site readiness with start of civil works contracts. 
 
10. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment (OP
/BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (OP
/BP
4.04)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11
)
[X] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
4.12)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (OP
/BP
4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (OP
/BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
11. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11.1 Sectoral Environmental Assessment, Government of Mizoram, Public Works 
Department, October 2001. 
11.2 Environmental and Social Management Plan, Major Maintenance Routes (Phase-1), 
Government of Mizoram, Public Works Department, October 2001. 
11.3 Environmental and Social Management Plan, Priority Road Phase-1 (P-IA), 
Government of Mizoram, Public Works Department, October 2001. 
11.4 Environmental Impact Assessment Phase 1, Government of Mizoram, Public Works 
Department, October 2001. 
11.5 Environmental Assessment (Summary), Phase 1, Government of Mizoram, Public 
Works Department, October 2001 
11.6 Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, February 2002. 
11.7 Resettlement and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, Phase-I, Volume II-Annexure, 
Government of Mizoram, Public Works Department, October 2001. 
11.8 Resettlement and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, Phase-I, Volume II-Main 
Report, Government of Mizoram, Public Works Department, October 2001. 
11.9 R&IPDP, Volume II, Baseline Profile for PAPs, Government of Mizoram, Public 
Works Department, May 2003.  
11.10 Resettlement and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, Government of Mizoram, 
Public Works Department, May 2003. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
11.11 Environmental Impact Assessment for Buangpul-Lunglel Section P1B, Government of 
Mizoram, Public Works Department, June 2003. 
11.12 Environmental Management Plan for P1B, Government of Mizoram, Public Works 
Department, June 2003. 
11.13 Environmental and Resettlement Management Plan for Maintenance Corridors, Phase 
II, Government of Mizoram, Public Works Department, June 2003. 
11.14 EIA & EMP for Aizawl Bypass, Government of Mizoram, Public Works Department,, 
June 2003. 
 
12. Contact point 
Contact: Arnab Bandyopadhyay 
Title: Sr. Transport Engineer 
Tel: 5785+829 
Fax: 91-11-41177849 
Email: abandyopadhyay@worldbank.org 
Location: New Delhi, India (IBRD) 
 
13. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
