                                                CONFORMED COPY


                                            CREDIT NUMBER 4812-IN




       Project Agreement
(Second Additional Financing for Mizoram State Roads Project)



                          between



   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                            and



                   STATE OF MIZORAM




                   Dated October 22, 2010
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated October 22, 2010, entered into between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) and the STATE
OF MIZORAM (“Project Implementing Entity? or “Mizoram?) (“Project Agreement?) in
connection with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement?) of same date
between India (“Recipient?) and the Association. The Association and Mizoram hereby
agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing
        Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or
        the General Conditions.

                              ARTICLE II — PROJECT

2.01.   Mizoram declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
        Mizoram shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article
        IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds,
        facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

2.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Association and Mizoram shall otherwise agree, Mizoram shall
        carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this
        Agreement.

                          ARTICLE III — TERMINATION

3.01.   For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of
        this Agreement.

                ARTICLE IV — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

4.01.   Mizoram’s Representative is the Chief Secretary to the Government of Mizoram,
        or such other person or persons as he or she shall designate in writing.
                                         -2-

4.02.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Facsimile:

               1-202-477-6391

4.03.   Mizoram’s Address is:

               Chief Secretary
               Government of Mizoram
               Tuikhuah Tlang, Aizawl 796001
               Mizoram
               India

               Facsimile:

               0389 - 2322745


        AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.


                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                       By /s/ Giovanna Prennushi
                              Authorized Representative


                       STATE OF MIZORAM



                       By /s/ K. Lalsawmvela
                              Authorized Representative
                                          -3-

                                      SCHEDULE

                               Execution of the Project

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Project Implementation

1.      Mizoram shall maintain, throughout the period of Project implementation until
        completion of the Project: (a) an accounts officer for the Project, who shall be a
        finance or management professional; and (b) an accountant for the Project, each
        such person with experience and qualifications agreed with the Association.

2.      Mizoram shall:

        (a)     take such action as may be necessary to acquire land as and when needed
                for carrying out the Project;

        (b)     implement the resettlement and rehabilitation and related measures set
                forth in RIPDP in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures,
                time schedules and other provisions set forth therein and refrain from
                taking any action which shall prevent or interfere with such
                implementation;

        (c)     in relation to those sections of state roads included in Parts A.1 and B.1
                of the Project, which have not been covered by the RIPDP: (i) refrain
                from inviting bids for road construction and improvement relating to
                such sections of state roads; or (ii) if no bidding process is involved,
                refrain from selecting a contractor for works on such sections of state
                roads in accordance with the provisions of Section III, Schedule 2 to the
                Financing Agreement, unless Mizoram has submitted to the Association
                updates or amendments to the RIPDP, which shall be satisfactory to the
                Association, setting forth, details regarding resettlement of persons
                affected by the Project in such sections of state roads;

        (d)     in relation to those sections of state roads included in Parts A.1 and B.1
                of the Project, which have not been covered by the EMP and the ESMP:
                (i) refrain from inviting bids for road construction and improvement
                relating to such sections of state roads; or (ii) if no bidding process is
                involved, refrain from selecting a contractor for works on such sections
                of state roads in accordance with the provisions of Section III,
                Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement, unless Mizoram has submitted
                to the Association updates or amendments to the EMP and ESMP for
                such sections of state roads, all of which shall be satisfactory to the
                Association;
                                          -4-

        (e)     implement the environmental mitigation, monitoring, institutional
                strengthening and other measures set out in the EMP and ESMP in
                accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule and
                other provisions set out therein and shall not take any action which
                would prevent or interfere with such implementation; and

        (f)     continue to conduct annual monitoring of environmental impacts of the
                implementation of the Project for two (2) years following the Closing
                Date.

3.      Mizoram shall not use any part of the proceeds of the Financing to undertake
        civil works on any roads not included in the Project Implementation Plan, unless
        and until Mizoram has submitted to the Association documentation satisfactory
        to the Association for undertaking civil works for such roads, including a
        feasibility study report, an environmental management plan, an environmental
        and social management plan and a resettlement and indigenous peoples
        development plan.

4.      Mizoram shall:

        (a)     conduct and furnish to the Association, not later than November 30,
                2010, surveys of Mizoram’s core road network, in accordance with a
                methodology agreed with the Association, and shall share the surveys’
                results with the Association;

        (b)     in order to assist PWD in discharging its responsibilities under the
                Project, maintain a fully staffed environment, social and management
                unit, within the PWD, with suitably qualified staff; and

        (c)     carry out the ISAP in accordance with guidelines and a methodology
                agreed with the Association by December 31, 2010.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        Mizoram shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      Mizoram shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association. Each
        such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall
                                          -5-

        be furnished by Mizoram to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days
        after the end of the period covered by such report to the Association.

2.      Mizoram shall provide to the Recipient and the Association all such information
        as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request with respect to the
        report referred to in Section 4.08 of the General Conditions

B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      Mizoram shall maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
        statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
        acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations
        and financial condition of Mizoram, including the operations, resources and
        expenditures related to the Project.

2.      Mizoram shall have its financial statements, referred to above, audited by
        independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with
        consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association. Each audit
        of these financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) financial year of
        Mizoram. Mizoram shall ensure that the audited financial statements for each
        period shall be furnished to the Recipient and the Association not later than six
        (6) months after the end of the period.

Section III.    Procurement

        All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
        the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
        of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.
