                                                CONFORMED COPY


                                            CREDIT NUMBER 4812-IN




    Financing Agreement
(Second Additional Financing for Mizoram State Roads Project)



                          between



                           INDIA



                            and



   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                   Dated October 22, 2010
                                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4812-IN

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated October 22, 2010, entered into between
INDIA (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Recipient and
the Association hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        eight    million    six    hundred      thousand   Special     Drawing    Rights
        (SDR 8,600,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?) to assist in financing the
        project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.
                                          -2-


                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its continued commitment to the objective of the Project.
        To this end, the Recipient shall cause Mizoram to carry out the Project in
        accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and the
        Project Agreement.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

4.02.   For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional
        Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
        Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient.

5.02. The Recipient’s Address is:

                Secretary
                Department of Economic Affairs
                Ministry of Finance, Government of India
                North Block
                New Delhi 110001, India

                Facsimile:

                91-11-23092039
                                         -3-


5.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Facsimile:

               1-202-477-6391


        AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.

                                INDIA




                                By /s/ Govind Mohan
                                       Authorized Representative


                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                By /s/ Giovanna Prennushi
                                       Authorized Representative
                                          -4-


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                                 Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to improve the management and carrying capacity
of the Mizoram state road network.

       The Project consists of the Original Project with Part B modified as follows:

Part B: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance

1.     Carrying out, through the execution of works, a program of road rehabilitation
       and maintenance of about 297 km of state roads not included under Part A.1 of
       the Project.

2.     Carrying out the ESMP through the execution of works and the provision of
       goods and consultants’ services.
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                    Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

1.      To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds
        of the Financing available to Mizoram, in accordance with the Recipient’s
        standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.

2. The Recipient shall protect the interests of the Association to accomplish the
   purposes of the Financing.

3. The Recipient through [NRRDA], shall, not later than August 1, 2011, engage an
   independent performance auditor acceptable to the Association, to carry out
   performance audits for Part A of the Project. The said independent performance
   auditor will determine: (i) whether the Disbursement-linked Indicators for each
   scheduled-disbursement have been met; and (ii) whether the expenditures incurred
   under a given disbursement schedule have been incurred in compliance with the
   safeguards and fiduciary arrangements as set out in ________ and the construction
   standards as set out in relevant contractions contracts.    The Recipient through
   [NRRDA],shall furnish a copy of audit reports of the said independent performance
   auditor to the Association on or before May 1st and December 1st in each year.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

        The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall
        ensure that Mizoram prepares Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
        of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
        agreed with the Association. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
        (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than
        forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
                                           -6-


1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
        cause Mizoram to prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project
        Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in
        form and substance satisfactory to the Association.

3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.
        The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section, except for two on-going civil
        works contracts for the Project dated January 13, 2006 and October 22, 2003
        respectively, which shall be governed by the provisions of Section I of the
        “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits?, published by
        the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September
        1997 and January 1999.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section; except for two on-
        going contracts for construction supervision for the Project dated September 4,
        2003 and March 28, 2002 respectively, which shall be governed by the
        provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers?, published by the Association in January
        1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
                                       -7-



1.   International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
     paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded
     on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
     provisions agreed upon from time to time between the Recipient and the
     Association.

4.   Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
     specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
     Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
     specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

      Procurement Method

      (a)   National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions agreed
            to from time to time, between the Recipient and the Association
      (b)   Shopping

      (c)   Direct Contracting

      (d)   Community Participation

      (e)   Force Account


C.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.   Quality- and Cost-based Selection.          Except as otherwise provided in
     paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
     awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

2.   Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
     specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
     which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
     the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

      Procurement Method

      (a)   Fixed Budget Selection

      (b)   Single Source Selection

      (c)   Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
            Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
                                 -8-


(d)   Quality-Based Selection

(e)   Least Cost Selection

(f)   Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications

(g)   Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
                                          -9-


D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

       The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
       Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
       by the Association.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
       the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
       (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
       2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
       this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
       set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
       financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category?), the allocations of the
       amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
       be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

                                            Amount of the             Percentage of
                                           Additional Credit       Expenditures to be
                                              Allocated                 Financed
                  Category                (expressed in SDR)       (inclusive of Taxes)
        (1) Civil Works, goods,                 8,600,000                 100%
        consultants services,
        resettlement cost, training,
        studies, and Incremental
        Operating Costs

        TOTAL AMOUNT                            8,600,000

B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
       made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. except that
       withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,720,000 equivalent
       may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2010
       for Eligible Expenditures.

2.     The Closing Date is December 31, 2010.
                                         - 10 -


                                    SCHEDULE 3

                                 Repayment Schedule


                                                  Principal Amount of the Additional
                                                           Credit repayable
           Date Payment Due                          (expressed as a percentage)*

On each March 15 and September 15:

commencing March 15, 2021 to and                                1.25%
including September 15, 2030

commencing March 15, 2031 to and                                 2.5%
including September 15, 2045


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Financing to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to
Section 3.03(b) of the General Conditions.
                                          - 11 -


                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
        Section II of this Appendix.

2.      “Category? means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2
        to this Agreement.

3.      “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

4.      “Development Credit Agreement? means the development credit agreement for
        the Mizoram State Roads Project entered into between the Recipient and the
        International Development Association, dated May 6, 2002 (Credit No.3618-IN).

5.      “EMP? means Environmental Management Plan of Mizoram dated January 2002,
        whose objective is to mitigate adverse environmental impacts of road
        construction under Part A.1 of the Project.

6.      “ESMP? means Environmental and Social Management Plan of Mizoram whose
        objective is to mitigate the environmental and social impacts of road construction
        activities under Part B.1 of the Project.

7.      “Fiscal Year? and “FY? mean the Borrower and Mizoram’s fiscal year,
        beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following
        calendar year.

8.      “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010.

9.      “GAAP? means the Recipient’s Governance and Accountability Action Plan,
        dated August 2010, which identifies key governance issues and sets forth
        mitigation measures to address said issues in respect of the carrying out of
        Project activities, as said Plan may be amended from time to time with the
        concurrence of the Association.

10.     “Incremental Operating Costs? means the incremental operating costs incurred
        for carrying out Project related in-house surveys and audits (such as surveys and
        audits for road conditions and safety), including related travel cost and cost of
        vehicle rentals.
                                        - 12 -


11.   “ISAP? means the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan of Mizoram whose
      objective is to modernize and strengthen institutions referred to under Part C.1 of
      the Project, a copy of which has been furnished to the Association on
      December 21, 2001.

12.   “Original Project? means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
      Credit Agreement.

13.   “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October, 2006 and May 2010.

14.   “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated August 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

15.   “Project Agreement? means the agreement between the Association and
      Mizoram of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
      and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
      Agreement.

16.   “Project Implementing Entity? means the Recipient’s State of Mizoram, or any
      successor thereto.

17.   “Project Implementation Plan? means the Project Implementation Plan of
      Mizoram for the carrying out of the Project, dated February 2002, as agreed with
      the Association.

18.   “PWD? means the Public Works Department of Mizoram, or any successor
      thereto.

19.   “RIPDP? means the Resettlement and Indigenous Peoples’ Development Plan,
      dated January 2002, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement
      of Mizoram and the Association, which sets out, inter alia, certain principles and
      objectives for the resettlement and rehabilitation of the persons affected by the
      Project, including eligibility criteria for identification of such affected persons
      and monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with provisions
      of the plan.
                                              - 13 -


Section II. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

        The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

“… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed
       by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other
       individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the
       Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a
       result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or
       entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
       connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

“… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures
       (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an individual or
       entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity
       ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be
       awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract,
       financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise
       participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other
       project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank
       determines (fn15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

Footnotes:

        “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed
        contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions
        policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early
        temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a
        sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment
        agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has
        engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use
        of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?
                                     - 14 -



“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.?
