 IEG
                                                                                                     Report Number: ICRR14744

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                           Date Posted: 06/09/2015

               Country: Jordan
             Project ID: P081823                                                         Appraisal                 Actual
         Project Name: Jordan - Cultural                Project Costs (US$M):                         71.1                  73.3
                         Heritage, Tourism &
                         Urban Development
  L/C Number:                                             Loan/Credit (US$M):                         56.0                  50.8
      Sector Board:      Urban Development                Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                              01/30/2007
                                                                Closing Date:           09/30/2012         03/31/2014
           Sector(s):       Urban Transport (37%); Other social services (32%); Other industry (13%); Sub-national
                            government administration (12%); Central government administration (6%)
          Theme(s):         Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (25%); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (25%); Urban Economic Development (17%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service
                            Delivery (17%); Cultural Heritage (16%)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:              ICR Review                   Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva           Peter Nigel Freeman       Christopher David            IEGPS1
                                                      Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Original Objective: "to contribute to: (a) tourism development in five historically and culturally important cities (Jerash,
Karak, Madaba, Salt and Ajloun), and thereby create the conditions for local economic development; and (b)
consolidation of the tourism industry in Petra." (Loan Agreement dated February 11, 2007, p.4)

The statement of the project development objective (PDO) was essentially the same in the main text of the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) (p.iii, 5). In the PAD's Annex 3- Results Framework and Monitoring, however, the second
sub-objective, however, is different: "to complete the Petra Archeological Park (PAP) Management Plan, initiated
under the Second Tourism Development Project".

Following IEG procedures, this ICR Review is based upon assessment of the achievement of the project objective as formulated in
the legal document.

Revised Objective:"to support tourism development in five historically and culturally important cities - Jerash, Karak,
Madaba, Salt, Aljoun, - and thereby contribute to local economic development." (Amendment to the Loan Agreement
dated July 19, 2011)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/14/2011

c. Components:
Component 1: Revitalization of Historic City Centers , Urban Infrastructure Improvements and Cultural Landscapes
Regeneration (appraisal cost US$55.15 million; actual cost US$65.48 million) focused on activities in and around the
historic cores of Jerash, Karak, Madaba, Salt and Ajloun, and included: (a) upgrading of and improvements to street
networks and allied public spaces; (b) rehabilitation and upgrading of pivotal urban spaces; (c) rehabilitation of
façades and landscaping and furnishing of primary streets; (d) renovation and preservation of selected heritage
buildings through adaptive reuse - including a pilot Salt Heritage Fund for privately owned historic buildings; (e) traffic
and parking management; (f) construction/ rehabilitation of essential municipal buildings and facilities; (g)
regeneration of cultural (natural) landscapes (Ajloun only); and (h) design and supervision services.

Component 2: Petra Gateway (appraisal cost US$6.05 million; actual cost US$0 million) included construction of a
new Visitors Center at the Petra Sanctuary; and related consultant services.

Component 3: Local Economic Development (appraisal cost US$1.16 million; actual cost US$0 million) was to
provide financial and technical assistance to local entrepreneurs, investors and community groups to encourage the
creation and/or expansion of environmentally appropriate and financially viable small and medium enterprises in the
project areas. It includes: (a) cultural heritage and tourism related business promotion and development grants; (b)
business-related workshops and training; and (c) program development and management consultancy services.

Component 4: Capacity Building and Project Management (appraisal cost US$2.86 million; actual cost US$0.22
million) was to support (a) municipal capacity building, including promotion, management, maintenance and
development control of historic centers by the project municipalities, formation and operation of local Strategic
Partnerships by the municipalities with local community and business groups, and Municipal Revitalization Pacts in
the form of additional core infrastructure funding based on municipality performance; and (b) project management and
institutional support.

Land Acquisition, Expropriation and Resettlement Costs (appraisal cost US$5.86 million; actual cost US$7.60 million)
.

Changes to the components:

During restructuring in 2011,
  Component 1: the activity in support of the Salt Heritage Fund was cancelled, as private homeowners were
    carrying out renovation/preservation activities on their own, as per ICR p.5.
  Component 2 was cancelled due to the Government's decision to use its own funding and a USAID grant for
    construction of the Visitor center in Petra.
  Component 3 was reduced to include only the grants and technical assistance to local entrepreneurs, investors,
    and community groups, as a result of delay in implementation.
  Component 4 was revised to focus on training, as studies and technical activities were being financed with grant
    funds from other partners.

During restructuring in 2013:
  Component 3- Local Economic Development was cancelled due to the component's complexity given the limited
    time frame for its implementation (Restructuring Paper 2013, p.5).


    d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The project was appraised for US$71.1 million. According to the ICR (Annex 1), the actual project cost
was US$73.3 million.

Financing: The total IBRD commitment was US$56 million and US$50.8 million was disbursed by project closure.
US$1 million was cancelled in 2013, and US$4.2 million was unused by project closure. The ICR p.2 notes in 2002, a
grant of USD 350,000 was awarded from the Multi Donor Trust Fund for Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Tourism
(Italy) to develop the project concept.

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower commitment of US$15.08 million at appraisal. It was increased to US$18.3
million at restructuring in 2011 to cover the costs related to land acquisition and resettlement (Restructuring Paper
2011). The ICR's Annex 1 reports that US$9.2 million was disbursed.

Dates: The project closing date was extended twice for a total of 18 months from September 30, 2012 to March 31,
2014. The first extension, in 2011, was for 6 months to March 31, 2013 due to delays. The second extension, in 2013,
was for one year to March 31, 2014 to enable completion of works in Ajloun and Salt, and a number of activities relat
ed to operation and maintenance (Restructuring Paper 2013, p. 6). During project restructuring in 2011, the project
development objective was revised to drop the second sub-objective (b) on consolidation of the tourism industry in
Petra, due to the Government's decision to use its own funding of US$2.5 million for construction of the Visitor center
in Petra and a USAID grant of US$125,000 for detailed design and bidding documents. The project results framework
was updated to reflect the restructured scope (see section 10 below).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objective: High.
Tourism is one of the pillars of the Jordanian economy, accounting for 11% of GDP at the time of appraisal in 2007.
The project development objectives were relevant to Jordan's 2004 National Tourist Strategy with focus on deepening
and diversifying Jordan’s tourism products, improving quality, and increasing employment, as well as its National
Agenda 2007-2017. The objectives were also relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan FY2006-2010, which targeted leveraging cultural assets to generate local economic opportunities.
When the objective was revised to drop the second sub-objective related to support in Petra, the activity was taken up
by the Government.

Revised Objective: High.

The revised project objectives remained equally relevant to the Government's focus on tourism and the Bank's
Country Partnership Strategy FY2012-2015, which aimed at improving local development in the historically and
culturally important cities through increased tourism activities.

b. Relevance of Design:

Original Objective: Modest.
The statement of the original project objective had two sub-objectives. The first sub-objective of supporting tourism
development in the five cities was to be achieved through investments in rehabilitation and improvement of urban
infrastructure, grants to support local economic development, and capacity building identified under three
components. The second sub-objective to contribute to consolidation of the tourism industry in Petra was to be
supported by construction of the Visitor Center in Petra under a separate self-standing component.

This project was designed to attract tourists to secondary cities, thus encouraging longer stays and higher average
expenditures, linking tourism more closely to local businesses and benefiting the local residents. The former Quality
Assurance Group's (QAG's) review of the project quality at entry in 2007 noted how cultural heritage, tourism, and
municipal management were innovatively brought together to spur local economic development and how the project
took a tailored, non-conventional approach to urban policy, building on in-depth sector knowledge and participation of
key stakeholders with adequate attention to social and environmental aspects. However, the project design was
found to be ambitious, as described by the ICR p.13, in terms of number of stakeholders, geographic locations, and
safeguard requirements, given the capacity and time constraints. A possible overload of the activities likely stretched
the institutional capacity within the implementing agency, the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MoTA) and project
municipalities to execute and monitor sub-projects (Restructuring Paper 2011, p.2).

Revised Objective: Substantial.
The project design was modified in 2011 and 2013 to drop two components, and reduce the scope of other
components (see details in 2c above). The causal chain remained clear between the revised outputs/components and
intended outcome of contributing to local economic development through support of tourism development in the five
selected cities.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Original Objective:

(i) To contribute to tourism development in five historically and culturally important cities (Jerash, Karak, Madaba,
Salt and Ajloun), and thereby create the conditions for local economic development . Substantial.

Output
    100% planned area of street networks, public spaces, and historic buildings were upgraded in the five cities of
     Jerash, Karak, Madaba, Salt, and Ajloun.
    Technical assistance was carried out to support the Municipal Revitalization Pact, including TA in expropriation
     and relocation, historic core regulation, traffic planning and management, and municipal finance and
     management; establishment of City Core Management Unit in the Municipality; and community partnership
     workshops and training.
    Technical assistance, training and business development support to selected business enterprises and
     entrepreneurs were cancelled.

Outcome
  The target of 20% for increased value of properties in targeted cities was exceeded at 50% (the original indicator
    was increased value added in businesses in city cores).
  The target of 2.2 days for tourist length of stay in the project core areas was exceeded at 2.8 days on average (ba
    seline value 1.5 days)
  697 direct and 306 indirect tourism-related jobs were created in target cities, exceeding the target of 500.

Findings from the project's economic impact assessment report:
    Total visitors to the principal attractions in the five project sites reached about 700,000 in 2013, above levels prior
     to the project which averaged 600,000 in 2005-2007, despite the economic and security situation in the region.
     Foreign tourists to the principal heritage sites in the five project cities rose as a share of total foreign tourists in
     Jordan – in 2006-7 about 8% of foreign tourists visited the five sites, in 2013 it was 11%. Although domestic
     tourism numbers in Jordan as a whole fell by about 11% from 2008 to 2012, domestic tourist numbers in the
     target cities grew by about 18% over the same period.

    Tourism- related employment grew in the five cities at a substantially faster rate than for Jordan as a whole.
     Employment in tourist shops increased by 200% in project sites during 2007-2013, against a 70% rise for Jordan
     as a whole. Employment in tourist and travel agencies grew strongly (80%) in the target cities over the same
     period.


(ii) To contribute to consolidation of the tourism industry in Petra . Modest.

Output
  Construction of the Visitor Center in Petra was dropped, as a result of the Government's decision to fund the
    works with their own sources (grant funds from USAID for the final design and its own funds for the construction).
    The decision was also apparently influenced by cost overruns experienced by the project under other
    components, which were reduced in scope. The Visitor Center was built, and UNESCO provided technical
    expertise and oversight over environmental and social safeguards. The PAD p.139 reports that the facility was
    originally conceived and designed under the Bank- financed Second Tourism Development Project. Under that
    project, however, funds were not identified for the construction of the Center, and the Government requested this
    project (P081823) to provide the needed investment.

Outcome
  The output conceived under this objective was delivered. Bank's contribution to this sub-objective is rated
    modest, as the facility was appraised by the Bank.


Revised Objective:
To support tourism development in five historically and culturally important cities - Jerash, Karak, Madaba, Salt,
Aljoun - and thereby contribute to local economic development . Substantial.

See the outputs and outcomes under the first original sub-objective above.



5. Efficiency:

At closure, the economic impact assessment estimated an annual increase of about 18% in tourist numbers
(about 120,000 tourists) compared to what the numbers would have been in the absence of the project. The annual
expenditure generated by this increase in tourist numbers was estimated at around JD 6 million. The study also
estimated the multiplier effects of the increased expenditure due to the additional tourists. The indirect multiplier
effects (due to backward linkages) were estimated at JD 2.7 million, while induced multiplier effects resulting from
increased consumer spending were estimated to be approximately JD 3.5 million.
A cost-benefit analysis was not carried out at appraisal, due to the difficulty of quantifying benefits and assigning a
monetary value (PAD, Annex 9). Instead a cost-effectiveness approach was proposed to determine whether the
project represented the least cost solution by an analysis of cost per unit of input. The ICR compared the project's
unit costs for comparable works for roads, municipal buildings, drainage, street lightening, portable water, and
sewerage with Lebanon, West Bank &Gaza, and Yemen. It reports (p.18) that unit construction costs in Jordan are
higher by about 10-20% than in these countries. Jordan has higher costs per unit of input, such as costs of materials,
and daily labor rates. Overall, in terms of cost effectiveness, the actual project costs exceeded the estimates by more
than 160%. This was partly explained by steeper than expected price increases for commodities, as well as overly
optimistic estimates at appraisal (ICR, p.8,18). A number of activities/ outputs were not carried out or completed as
planned by project closure; the difference was absorbed by funding from cancelled non-core activities. A delay of 18
months in project implementation was affected by some administrative and operational inefficiencies, including
changes in staffing both at the Government and the Bank, apart from exogenous factors (budget ceiling, regional
instability).

Efficiency is assessed as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       No
     ICR estimate                    No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original Objective: Relevance of objectives was high, and that of design modest. The project substantially achieved its
first objective and contributed to tourism development in five historically and culturally important cities of Jerash,
Karak, Madaba, Salt and Ajloun, thereby creating the conditions for local economic development. The achievement
under the second sub-objective was rated modest, to reflect Bank's modest contribution to the construction of the
Visitor Center in Petra. Efficiency is assessed as modest. The project development outcome is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

Revised Objective: Relevance of objectives was high, and that of design substantial. The project substantially
contributed to local economic development through support of tourism development in five historically and culturally
important cities of Jerash, Karak, Madaba, Salt and Ajloun. Efficiency is assessed as modest. The project
development outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The disbursement shares were 69% (US$35.13 million) and
31% (US$15.67 million) prior to and subsequent to project restructuring in 2011.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Financial. As the ICR reports, there is considerable bottom-up pressure for the central Government to provide
     resources for O&M, but with budget constraints and imperfect decentralization, the risk is moderate. According to
     the ICR p. 12, all the participating municipalities are committed to protect the new assets as priority. Madaba
     allocated JD 500,000 for street maintenance and JD 1 million for upgrading tourism infrastructure. Jerash has
     adequate capacity and resources, and the new mayor and the city manager confirmed to the ICR team that O&M
     of project assets would be given priority. In Salt, facilities built under the project included spaces that could be
     rented out, ensuring revenues that can be reinvested in the O&M of the asset.


    Institutional. As per ICR, larger municipalities of Salt and Madaba showed capacity to maintain assets. In Karak
     and Ajloun, the situation was initially more challenging, but as tourism has continued to develop, the
     municipalities made available the required capacity and resources. The Borrower still notes that weak capacity
     building and poor country management unit staffing might hinder the sustainability of operation and maintenance
      (ICR's Annex 6-Borrower comments).

     Political and security risk . The continuity of benefit flows is uncertain surrounding the numbers of tourist visitors
      as a result of on-going and worsening hostilities in the region. Foreign tourists are particularly sensitive to political
      and security risks posed by such events as the war in Syria, flows of refugees, the growth of ISIS (which has
      destroyed many artifacts), and unrest in Afghanistan, Iraq, West Bank/Gaza, and Egypt.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The former Quality Assurance Group rated the project's overall quality at entry as satisfactory (QAG, August
2007), noting that the implementation period of 5 years was too short given the comprehensiveness of the project
and past experience within the sector in Jordan (ICR, p.23). The ICR p.7 reports, the project design was built on
earlier Bank engagement in the country, in particular tourism development projects and urban development
projects. To ensure a broad support base for the project, the project included participatory preparation process,
through Strategic Partnerships with the community, and through Municipal Revitalization Pacts, which allowed
community voice and permitted continuous adjustments as needed over the life of the project. The need of
strengthening implementation capacity in a range of sectors, which was recognized by the previous Second
Tourism Development Project (P035997), was to be addressed through recruitment of an additional 17 staff to
TDD’s existing 15 personnel, together with equipment and training. Also, based on the experience of that project,
the project recognized the importance of M&E, as described by the ICR p.8. Despite this, the indicators and
results framework were still poorly formulated, as noted by the ICR p.9, and necessitated revisions.

In addition to weaknesses in M&E, the project design was ambitious in terms of the activities and capacity to
implement them, resulting in the need to reduce the scope through two restructurings.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were held about twice a year, and a total of 16 implementation status reports (ISRs) were
filed, which were of good quality and candid in observations, as described by the ICR p.23. Dwindling interest and
commitment in the implementing agency MoTA was handled through dialogue and resulted in strong commitment
at project closure (ICR, p.14).

There were however five changes in the project team leads, thus affecting the pace of implementation (ICR, p.1).
The ICR (p.23) also finds that: (i) revisions into the results framework were not sufficient and could have been
further strengthened; (ii) the mid-term review was under-utilized to prepare for restructuring; (iii) the Bank could
have been more proactive in avoiding delays restructuring. In addition, the Borrower expected more support in
institutional capacity building from the project, and a better participatory model/approach to involve communities in
the targeted cities, in particular in the initial stages of project implementation, according to the ICR's Borrower
comments (ICR, p.59).


     Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    As the ICR p.24 reports, the Government's ownership and commitment were strong, particularly at the
beginning of the project. The Government complied with all covenants. The inter-ministerial cooperation was
good, particularly with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MoMA).

The Government provided the counterpart funding as agreed, making available the additional funding to address
safeguard issues (the costs associated with land acquisition, expropriation and resettlement). There were
frequent changes of Ministers and municipal Governments that affected early progress in implementation. The
budget ceiling on project expenditures as a result of fiscal crisis necessitated phasing of the project
implementation. Also, the institutional changes (decentralization) impacted relations between Ministries and
between MoTA and the communities.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The project was implemented by the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA) through its Technical
Development Department (TDD). The ICR p. 25 reports TDD ensured that adequate decisions were taken to
address problems arising during implementation, with more realistic phasing of the works and the appointment of
a number of additional engineers. The safeguard issues were handled properly. Fiduciary compliance was
observed, and financial management was satisfactorily conducted (ICR, p.25). The initially slow pace of
implementation was addressed by MoTA's strengthening the implementation team and temporarily postponing
works on further sites. In particular, technical and managerial capacity was strengthened and the consulting
engineers reinforced (ICR, p.9). Monitoring and evaluation remained a challenge, however, throughout
implementation.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The initial results framework was too complex, as described by the Project Restructuring Paper of 2011 (p.2), which in
the end turned to be difficult to implement and was revised in 2011. The second outcome indicators under the first
sub-objective 'increased value added in businesses in cores' was revised to 'increased value of properties in targeted
cities". Out of 18 intermediate indicators under the first sub-objective, 11 were dropped at restructuring. The M&E
system provided information to track the key indicators but as the ICR p.10 finds that revision of the results framework
did not fundamentally improved its design to properly reflect the outcomes. As a result, an independent economic
impact assessment was carried out towards the end of the project.

The ICR p. 9 notes that specialized consultancy services were included in the project design to be provided at national
and local levels to prepare the system.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   The M&E was used to tabulate data from survey forms. Municipal units collected data and conducted sampling
exercises.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR p. 10 reports that there was an intensive collaboration with an independent consultancy that undertook an
economic impact assessment at local level.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category B project due to limited negative social and environmental impacts expected during
the implementation of the rehabilitation and construction works. Three safeguard policies were triggered:
Environmental Assessment OP 4.01, Cultural Property OP 4.11, and Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12.

Environment Assessment : The ICR p. 11 reports that compliance was substantial, with minor exceptions on dust
control and noise, which had negligible negative impacts. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was based on
Jordanian legislation and Bank guidelines. Consultants delivered several awareness and training workshops for
stakeholders and supervised respect of the EMP in works contracting and implementation.

Involuntary Resettlement : The ICR p.11 reports that land acquisition and resettlement were handled by Government
in line with Bank requirements and the Resettlement Policy Framework.Two Resettlement Action Plans were
prepared for Jerash and Karak and two abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans were prepared for Salt and Ajloun.
Site specific Resettlement Action Plans were prepared for Jerash, Karak and Salt, and these were substantially
respected during implementation, as per ICR p.11. There were delays in the process, particularly in Salt and Ajloun
(where the relocation of vendors was required before works could start). The actual resettlement impacts were slightly
smaller than the impacts documented in Resettlement Action Plans at appraisal stage, for example 12,408m2 of
permanent land were acquired in comparison to the appraised 20,333m2; 46 households were affected as compared
to the appraised 52. Community Liaison Officers were appointed by each city to follow up with the project affected
persons and act as a conduit between concerned municipalities and affected communities. The ICR p. 25 reports that
the project affected people were satisfied with the compensation and resettlement package. The compensation rates
for all lost assets were determined based on market value and reflected replacement cost.

Cultural Property: The main text of the ICR does not discuss compliance with this policy. According to the Borrower's
comments (ICR's Annex 6, p.55), a few minor issues identified during construction that triggered this policy were
corrected to maintain the integrity of the cultural property. The project has been designed to ensure compliance with
the Jordanian law for the protection and conservation of cultural property, which is also in compliance with Bank
policy. Contracts included provisions for “chance finds”. In a few cases which encountered remains of cultural heritage
value, the Department of Antiquities intervened to verify the cultural integrity of the finds and recommended measures
for the works which were implemented accordingly. The contracts for restoration of historical buildings included in the
project were also in compliance with the Jordanian laws and the Bank policy.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial management. The ICR p. 25 reports that fiduciary compliance was observed, financial management was
satisfactorily conducted, and audit compliance was satisfactory in terms of quality and timely submission. All audits
were unqualified.

Procurement. As per ICR p.11, procurement of works, goods and selection of consultants made use of possible
flexibility of the Bank’s Guidelines to make use of Government's regulations when appropriate, in alignment
with the Loan Agreement (especially with respect to the national bidding provisions). Procurement incorporated
budget requirements and procurement planning. Rectifications and adjustments were timely and integrated in the
procurement plan and disbursement forecasting. The ICR p.8 reports that the budget ceiling on project expenditures
in 2010 slowed down implementation, i.e., the budget was capped at the equivalent of US$ 4 million against contract
commitments of USD 24 million, necessitating the phasing and lengthening of implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant               Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                 Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Selected lessons from the ICR:

    An integrated project approach combining the tourism, cultural heritage, and urban upgrading activities could
     help bring significant economic benefits.

    Right-sizing investments in integrated cultural heritage projects balances the need for critical mass in a number
     of cities while avoiding spreading efforts too thin in too many locations.

    A solid understanding of incentives, skill gaps and political economy among all key stakeholders is essential to
     design institutional arrangements in a complex environment with multiple stakeholders.

From the Borrower's comments:

    A more balanced distribution of activities beyond infrastructure and streamlining with municipal urban and
     strategic plans is important.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is informative and outcome oriented. It provides a thorough account of the economic impact assessment
carried out under the project. Lessons are evidence based. A more insightful discussion would have been useful to
learn what issues arose during implementation of this mutli-disciplinary project, which involved coordination of multiple
stakeholders and land acquisition in urban areas. Very little is said on procurement with 90% of project financing for
civil works. The ICR should have also addressed compliance with Bank's safeguard policy on cultural property, with
the project's focus on historical and cultural assets. There were mistakes in the Borrower's financing amounts in
Annex 1: the appraisal estimate was US$15.08 million instead of US$9.22 million. The actual costs do not add up in
tables (a) and (b) of Annex 1.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
