                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27704

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-41670)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$33.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                             GUATEMALA

                                                 FOR A

                               BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT




                                                5/17/2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective )

                          Currency Unit = Quetzal
                            1.00 Quetzal = US$ 0.13
                               US$ 1.00 = 7.58 Quetzales

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                         1 January      to 31 December

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COEDUCA   Parent-run School Committee (Comite Educativo de Autogestión Educativa)
DICADE    Dirección de Calidad y Desarrollo Educativo
DIGEBI    General Directorate of Bilingual Education (Dirección General de Educación Bilingüe)
EMIS      Education Management Information System
FIS       Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social)
FONAPAZ   National Fund for Peace (Fondo Nacional para la Paz)
FSDC      Social Fund for Community Development
FUNRURAL  Foundation for Rural Development
GOG       Government of Guatemala
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
INE       National Statistics Institute
ISEs      Instituciones Especializadas en Servicios Educativos
MCS       Ministry of Culture and Sports
MEDIR     Evaluation of Intercultural Bilingual Education
MFP       Ministry of Public Finance
MINEDUC   Ministry of Education
NEUBI     Nueva Escuela Unitaria Bilingüe Intercultural
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAEB      Bilingual Intercultural Education Project in the Quiche area
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PEMBI     Mayan Bilingual Intercultural Education
PRONADE   National Community-Managed Program for Educational Development (Programa
          Nacional de Autogestión para el Desarrollo Educativo)
SEP       Secretaría Ejecutiva de la Presidencia de la República
SIAF      Integrated System for Financial Administration
SIGEPRO   Sistema Integrado de Gerencia de Proyectos
SIMAC     Sistema de Mejoramiento de los Recursos Humanos y Adecuación Curricular
SPEB      Second Basic Education Project
UDI       Informatic Unit (Unidad de Informática del MINEDUC)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UPE       Education Planning Unit
URNG      National Guatemalan Revolutionary Union
ZONAPAZ   Geographic area that includes nine departments most affected by the armed conflict


                        Vice President:       David de Ferranti
                     Country Director:        Jane Armitage
                Country Sector Leader:        Helena Ribe
                    Task Team Leader:         Carlos Rojas

                                        GUATEMALA
                         BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41

Project ID: P007223                                                  Project Name: GT BASIC EDUCATION REFORM
Team Leader: Carlos A. Rojas                                         TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: GT BASIC EDUCATION REFORM                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-41670
   Country/Department: GUATEMALA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (55%); Central government administration
                            (30%); Sub-national government administration (13%); Tertiary
                            education (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Indigenous peoples (P); Gender (P); Access to
                            urban services for the poor (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/24/1993                                     Effective: 03/19/1998                03/19/1998
     Appraisal: 03/31/1997                                         MTR: 10/10/2000                  10/10/2000
      Approval: 05/20/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Ana Maria Arriagada                            Julian Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:             Carlos Rojas                                   Carlos Rojas
ICR Primary Author:             Angela Demas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's main objectives are to: a) increase coverage for pre-primary and primary school children in
rural areas, especially among indigenous groups and girls, through a community-based school management
program (PRONADE) and by introducing afternoon school shifts; b) improve efficiency and quality
through the support of bilingual education and multigrade teaching methods; and c) strengthen the
organization and management of MINEDUC and decentralize education administration to encourage
greater community participation. There is a geographic focus on the areas most affected by decades of
internal conflict (ZONAPAZ).

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$46.8 million of which US$33.0 million would be financed by
the loan and US$13.8 million by the government. The project was comprised of three components:

Component I: Expansion of Coverage and Equity (US$22.4 million or 48 percent of total project
costs).

(a) PRONADE - Programa Nacional de Autogestion para el Desarrollo Educativo. (National
    Community-Managed Program for Educational Development);
(b) Programa de la Niña (Girls' Education Program);
(c) Afternoon Shifts

Component II: Improvement of Efficiency and Quality (US$9.5 million or 20 percent of total project
costs).

(a) Curriculum Development;
(b) Bilingual Education;
(c) Multi-grade Schooling in Rural Guatemala;
(d) Fund for Innovations to Support Educational Quality;
(e) National Assessment System - NAS

Component III: Institutional Strengthening (US$13.6 million or 29 percent of total project costs).

(a)      Support to ISES to train COEDUCAS;
(b)      Training to MINEDUC and COEDUCAS in new systems of administration;
(c)      Strengthening of MINEDUC (planning, human resources, financing, administration);
(d)      Strengthening of the 22 Departmental Directorates;
(e)      Development and improvement of the Education Management Information Systems
         (MIS); and
(f)      Design and implementation of a system of project evaluation and execution.

Component IV: Project Administration (US$1.4 million or 3 percent of total project costs).

3.4 Revised Components:
In response to the structural damage and crisis brought about by Hurricane Mitch in 1998, the first



                                                     - 2 -

component of the project, Expansion of Coverage and Equity, was modified to include school rehabilitation
and construction. This required a reallocation of resources whereby civil works was increased significantly
in relationship to the original foreseen expenditures in this category. The revision required an amendment
to the Loan Agreement and implementation plan. The following table shows the reallocation of funds to
civil works:

                              Amendment to the Loan Agreement (US$ M)

               Investment Categories                Original      Modified          Changes
         1. Civil Works                                   1,000          8,000           +7,000
         2. Goods                                         2,700          2,000              -700
         3. Consultant Services                            8,200         6,500            -1,700
         4. Training                                       2,500         2,000              -500
         5. Salaries and Operational     Costs           11,500       11,5000                   0
         6. Educational Innovations                        3,300         3,000              -300
         7. Unallocated                                   3,800               0           -3,800
                         Total                           33,000         33,000                  0
Source: Legal Agreement and Amendment of December 1998.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Objectives of the Project were fully consistent with the Guatemala CAS effective at the time of entry. They
also were reflective of the objectives as stated in the Government's five year Education Strategy.

The project was designed in a participatory manner with the direct participation of the Vice Minister of
Education, department heads, and functionaries of the Ministry in every aspect related to the scope and
content of the components. This involvement assured that the objectives and activities contemplated were
well defined and also minimized the chance of complications during implementation. The input provided by
government and other stakeholders fit within the context of the country that had recently ended many years
of internal conflict with the signing of the Peace Accords in 1996. The collaborative effort resulted in
realistic project development objectives that were built on the foundation of the agreements reached through
the Peace Accords.

Critical risks that were identified in the PAD as well as lessons learned from previous projects also
contributed to management design and execution of the project. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) rather
than an implementation unit was set up with the responsibility to coordinate and monitor activities instead
of executing them. Implementation was assigned to the respective operational departments of the Ministry.
Additionally, parts of the activities were also contracted out to national entities outside of the Ministry with
expertise and abilities better suited for certain assignments, such as the Universities of San Carlos, Rafael
Landivar, Francisco Marroquin, and del Valle.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The project objectives established in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) continue to be as relevant
today as they were when the project commenced. They also continue to be consistent with the overall
education policies currently being implemented by MINEDUC in order to improve the coverage, equity and



                                                       - 3 -

quality of the education system. The Project was designed to support the compliance of the approved
initiatives established by the Peace Accords and were agreed upon by the Government of Guatemala and
the National Guatemalan Revolutionary Union (URNG) with the final accords completed on December 29,
1996. The Project's aim to help increase school coverage focused primarily on the nine rural departments
that form ZONAPAZ, the area most affected by the armed conflict during the civil war. It is also the
geographic area with the highest concentration of the population facing extreme poverty and registers the
lowest educational indicators in the country.

The project satisfactorily increased coverage for pre-primary and primary school children in the poorest,
rural areas; improved the efficiency and quality of the delivery of education through the support of
bilingual education and multigrade teaching methods; and strengthened and organized the management of
MINEDUC. The achievement of these three main objectives are addressed individually below.

a) Increase coverage for pre-primary and primary school children in rural areas, especially among
indigenous groups and girls, through a community-based school management program (PRONADE)
and by introducing afternoon school shifts;

ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The community-based school program (PRONADE) far surpassed the expected number of children to be
enrolled during the lifetime of the project. Originally the project estimated that coverage would be extended
to about 25,000 more students per year, so that by year 2000, about 75,000 more students would be
attending PRONADE schools.        The actual numbers show that the goal of 75,000 students was easily met
and by year 2000 under the project, PRONADE had expanded to accommodate 209,000 children. At
project end, more than 3,500 isolated rural, indigenous communities (COEDUCAs) were providing basic
education to more than 300,000 students. Teachers appointed and number of schools organized have also
surpassed the targets established (see Annex 1).

Coverage of PRONADE schools increased from 9.8 percent to 12.8 percent share of the primary school
population, and it increased from 11 to 14.8 percent of the official public school population. These
achievements have contributed to the growth of the primary net enrollment rate which increased from 69.1
percent in 1996 to 85.1 percent in 2001, according to MINEDUC statistics. At the pre-primary level, net
enrollment grew from 20.7 percent in 1996 to 41.3 percent in 2001. Furthermore, gross enrollment for
primary students has reached about 103 percent. While the number of boys still outnumbers the amount of
girls enrolled, the gap may have narrowed by a few percentage points. For both girls and boys and rural
and urban children, significant improvements for both net and gross enrollment have been realized. Net
enrollment for girls has increased from 65.7 percent in 1995 to 83.15 percent as reported in 2001 and for
boys from 72.6 percent to 87.05 percent. With measurements starting in 1997, gross enrollment of rural
children enjoyed an average annual increase of 7.6 percent. Increases ranged from about 4 percent to
almost 14 percent, with the largest increases achieved during 1998 and 1999 at a little over 13 percent
each. This is in direct correspondence with the large expansion of PRONADE communities supported by
the project in those same years.

The introduction of afternoon shifts at primary schools in Guatemala also had an impact on the increase in
coverage in rural areas. A total of 765 teachers in 439 schools have been appointed to work in the
afternoon shifts, thereby contributing to the expansion of coverage to 116,000 more students. With the
introduction of school rehabilitation after Hurricane Mitch, a total of 164 schools were reconstructed in
areas most critically affected. These facilities provided more children with access to primary education in a
safe and suitable environment.


                                                      - 4 -

b) Improve efficiency and quality through the support of bilingual education and multigrade teaching
methods; and

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Data collected by the Informatics Unit of the Ministry suggests that the efforts to improve the efficiency
and quality of Guatemala's education system have had some positive impact. Though it is still early and
full effects of activities supported cannot be measured until a few more years, as well as difficulties to
disaggregate data for purposes of seeing impact in areas targeted by the project, some initial statistics
reveal improvements that could be attributed to the project. Most notable is the decline in dropout rate for
rural children from 10.5 percent in 1995 to 8.4 percent in 2001. The average, overall drop out was
measured at 7.02 percent for primary level children in 2001. In the same year, primary repetition has been
measured at 14.6 percent, only about 2.4 percentage points down from 17 percent in 1996. Girls and boys
are close, but girls have a slightly better showing with 14 percent repeating a grade versus boys at 15.2
percent.

In a Quasi-Experimental study on performance of PRONADE schools conducted in 2001 and financed by
KfW, results comparing retention of PRONADE students with those in traditional schools indicate a
significantly better retainment in PRONADE schools. A cohort of PRONADE students from both
bilingual and monolingual schools were followed from 1999 to 2001. At the national level it was measured
that 44.4 percent of students reached second grade (59.1% urban and 38.2% rural). In the case of the
PRONADE cohort, 73 percent advanced to the second grade. Interestingly, the bilingual schools in the
sample that represented indigenous communities in Alta Verapaz, El Quiche, and Huehuetenango out
performed the Spanish speaking schools in the sample representing Zacapa, Chiquimula, Jutiapa, Jalapa,
Santa Rosa and Escuintla. An average of 10 percentage points separated the boys and girls in PRONADE
schools with more boys advancing to second grade than girls. By third grade, the sample representing
PRONADE schools drops to 56 percent advancing from second grade to third. About 61 percent of boys
make it in comparison to 52 percent of girls.

c) Strengthen the organization and management of MINEDUC and decentralize education
administration to encourage greater community participation. There is a geographic focus on the
areas most affected by decades of internal conflict (ZONAPAZ).

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

On several levels, the project successfully assisted the government with strengthening the management of
MINEDUC and decentralizing its administration. Additionally, the underpinnings of several activities of
the project support the ideal of greater community participation and the project was designed from the start
with much input from a wide group of stakeholders. Support was provided to MINEDUC to redefine the
roles and functions at each level of the Ministry's structure. This was successfully completed and put into
effect in year 2000, however, while the structure still exists, it has not come to full utilization due to the
change in administration and differing priorities. Some other areas of success include the creation of 22
departmental directorates for DIGEBI (JEDEBI) and the creation and fortification of the management
information units at the level of the 22 departmental directorates. The regional informatics units have been
a successful pilot in the effort to decentralize the education administration and encourage greater local
participation.

Much of the project focused on extending and enhancing provision of services in the rural areas and those


                                                       - 5 -

most affected by the years of internal conflict. Under the PRONADE program the management of
community schools is carried out entirely by the COEDUCAs which are parent run community
associations. Through the project some 3,500 more COEDUCAS were formed and have received training
from non-governmental organizations in the management and daily operation of their local school.
Additionally, the project supported the design of a strategy to assist decentralization called Juntas
Escolares and the communications campaign formed to educate the public about the program's function
and how they could participate. The Juntas Escolares are small community/parent associations formed at
the school level with the authority to manage local aspects of their community's school, such as simple
maintenance and repairs, etc. The result of the strategy was the formation of more than 3,500 Juntas
Escolares. Similarly, the project provided technical support to create and implement Juntas de Oposición
which are bodies at the departmental level with the authority to select and appoint teachers. Unfortunately,
during the last half of project implementation, some responsibilities of the Juntas were limited because the
new administration preferred to recentralize to the Ministry certain duties including the ability to select
teachers.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Expansion of Coverage and Equity (US$22.4 million)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Analysis by subcomponent:

(a) PRONADE - Programa Nacional de Autogestion para el Desarrollo Educativo. (National
Community-Managed Program for Educational Development)

PRONADE went far beyond the original planned increase in coverage supported by the project to meet the
evident demand in rural, mostly indigenous communities that were not being served by the education system
because no school was available within a reasonable distance. This subcomponent was very successful and
quickly surpassed the goal of increasing enrollment by 75,000 students. In 1997, approximately 64,000
students were enrolled in PRONADE schools. By the first semester of year 2000, with assistance from the
project, an additional 208,753 students were attending PRONADE schools for a total of 272,753 children
in total being served. The enrollment gains as a result of the expansion of PRONADE schools during the
life of the project is significant, and it represents about one-fifth of the total matriculation of all rural school
children, according to the Annual Education Statistics produced by the Ministry.

The principal challenge that PRONADE faces is the lack of assigned budget to cover the cost of the
program mostly in relation to teachers' salaries. The economic situation of the country and allocation of
budget affects the ability to provide timely payment of recurrent costs, and as teachers in the traditional
school system are affected with delay in payment of salaries, so too are the PRONADE teachers. While the
project supported the teacher salaries with declining financing, eventually the government is responsible for
covering these recurrent costs. The government has been making the payments, but some delays have
occurred.

(b) Programa de la Niña (Education Program for Girls)

The goal of this subcomponent was to enhance the incorporation of girls in the education system and retain
them so that they could complete at least a primary education. To achieve this, the project supported the
sensibilitization programs both for educators and communities, including activities that would expose the
importance of educating girls so participants could see firsthand the benefits. A communications campaign
was established to publicize the importance of educating girls and to encourage girls receiving scholarships



                                                        - 6 -

to attend school to stay in school and complete their education. The campaign distributed 10,000 buttons,
printed school bags, and publicized the Third National Meeting on Girls' Education in the country. The
subcomponent also strengthened the coordination of information and communication among the
departmental offices of MINEDUC, as well as with the center regarding this theme.

(c) Afternoon Shifts

Under the project, the Ministry was able to create 800 teacher placements for afternoon shifts, allowing
some 116,000 more students of which 57,000 were first graders to attend primary school. The program
contributed to the expansion of coverage, especially for students unable to follow a traditional school
schedule or in the case where one-shift schools were over capacity and unable to accept more children. The
number of schools offering afternoon shifts reached 439, and 765 teachers were appointed to teach during
those shifts. Each shift received furniture, including a desk and a chair for the teacher, a bookcase, and a
blackboard. A study analyzing the characteristics and situation of the "Afternoon Shifts" has been
produced and is being used by the Planning Unit within MINEDUC.

While the government originally had the goal to legally establish 2000 new teaching positions specifically
for the afternoon shifts, it only succeeded in creating 800 positions. Economic constraints had an impact
on creating more teacher positions due to the recurrent cost factor. If judging the success of the afternoon
shifts solely on the number of new teacher places and new afternoon shifts created, it would seem that this
subcomponent underperformed, however the goal of the program was to increase coverage so more children
could go to school. In this respect, the program reached its goal of enrolling 70,000 students by year 2000,
and exceeded this number by another 46,000. From this viewpoint, afternoon shifts are considered
satisfactory.

(d) Construction and Rehabilitation of School Buildings

This subcomponent was not originally planned during the appraisal of the project, instead it was created to
address the emergency crisis caused by Hurricane Mitch through an amendment to the Legal Agreement. At
the time of the amendment the rehabilitation was thought to support the third Component - Strengthening of
MINEDUC, however, it seems to more naturally correspond with the first component for increasing school
coverage at the primary level, so we are including it here. To execute this subcomponent, the Ministry
entered into a legal agreement with the Social Investment Fund (FIS) and the Executive Secretary of the
Presidency of the Republic (SEP), so that these public entities could act as Government Agencies for the
contracting, supervision and monitoring of the civil works. The program was executed in two phases and
completed reconstruction of 164 educational buildings.

In the first phase, FIS constructed 58 official school buildings in the following departments:
Chimaltenango (2); El Progreso (3); El Quiché (19); Huehuetenango (4); Izabal (23); Jalapa (6); and
Zacapa (1). The SEP reconstructed 16 schools. In the second phase, under the agreement with FIS titled
"Classrooms for the New Century," five subprojects covering another 90 educational buildings were
completed. For example, one subproject targeted displaced communities in Huehuetenango (7), Peten (6),
and Alta Verapaz (2), all communities in the ZONAPAZ areas.

Reconstruction was completed during the first months of 2001, at a total of US$5.37 million which was
less than originally anticipated. The US$1.63 million in funds remaining under the Civil Works
procurement category was reallocated back to the other investment categories. This swift reaction by the
Bank, proved to be timely and provided an immediate relief to those communities that had no school
infrastructure.


                                                      - 7 -

Component II: Improvement of Efficiency and Quality (US$9.5 million)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

While this component's resources were reduced with the reallocation of funds to support rebuilding of
schools after Hurricane Mitch, it still successfully improved the quality and efficiency of primary education
in the rural areas. To achieve the objective of the component, the project supported development and
delivery of training programs specifically targeted to bilingual intercultural education, the use of multigrade
methodologies, active teaching methodologies, development of pedagogical materials and their
dissemination, curriculum development, and the creation and operation of an assessment system to measure
student performance. Analysis by subcomponent follows here:

(a) Curriculum Development

Through the Departments of SIMAC/DICADE and DIGEBI, the project was able to support efforts to
design and develop the curriculum and corresponding educational materials. To further support bilingual
education, self-learning guides and 62 textbooks for preprimary and grades 1-3 in mathematics and Mayan
culture were completed for several Mayan languages. The project financed the layout, illustration,
translation, printing and distribution of these materials. To complement the bilingual training programs in
curriculum, many didactic materials were provided to diversify the curriculum materials available and used
for instruction and learning in the classroom. They included among others: 8,220 grammar books and
6,365 dictionaries in nine Mayan languages; 7,200 manuals for reading and writing Mayan languages;
audio visual aides and instructional materials for a self-learning pilot program in the Kaqchikel language;
materials to administer diagnostic exams in the four most commonly spoken Mayan languages; and printing
and distribution of 55,000 self-learning guides for third graders in PRONADE schools.

Many of the trainings described below in the other subcomponents also include areas of curriculum
development.

(b) Bilingual Education

Guatemala's educational statistics have shown that low levels of completion of first grade and poor quality
instruction has been a consistent stumbling block for students, and they have demonstrated much higher
drop out and repetition rates in comparison to other grades. This is even more common for students whose
native language is not Spanish. While not originally contemplated for financing under the project, the
Diploma program for rural teachers for special instruction of first grade curriculum was considered
essential, and it was agreed that the loan funds would support the government with this program. Under
this activity 352 educators, of which 330 were teachers and 22 were technical pedagogical coordinators
(CTPs) earned their diplomas. The program targeted participants from rural areas in 10 departments and
was offered by the NGO - INAPRODE.

Reading and Writing for Bilingual Teachers. The project successfully trained 3,980 bilingual education
teachers at the preprimary and primary level in the process of reading and writing (lecto-escritura ­ L1) in
eight Mayan languages, including three of the most widely spoken (Kaqchikel, Mam, and Kekchi), and five
others (Tz'utujil, Q'anjob'al, Popti, Chuj, and Poqoman.) The training took place in a week long session
offered at the national level in various locations. Participants received a dictionary, a grammar book, and
other instructional aides. The program was evaluated by the Linguistics Institute of the Rafael Landivar
University, and they found that the experience was widely accepted by teachers who thought the training
was positive and beneficial to their performance in the classroom. Recommendations for improvement of


                                                      - 8 -

the program included: (a) lengthening the duration of the training to achieve a greater impact; (b)
developing a continued effort to sustain such programs in the medium and long term in order to motivate
creation of a policy to integrate the strengthening of bilingual teachers into the mainstream of courses
offered; and (c) systematizing these types of training events and elevate their status beyond experimental
training sessions.

Diplomas in Curriculum, Linguistics and Education Management. The goal of this training was to
strengthen the human resources of DIGEBI in the mentioned areas resulting in higher technical skills for
bilingual teachers and technical administrators. Through the University Rafael Landivar, the project
supported a diploma program that trained 88 teachers in applied linguistics; 45 in education administration;
and 59 in curriculum development. The courses were seven months in length and participants graduated
after completing 544 hours of study.

Further to several training opportunities to strengthen bilingual education, the project supported technical
assistance to DIGEBI through consultants that provided skill building for: (a) formation of policies and
strategies to develop programs in human resources professionalization; (b) adaptation of educational
methods and materials, (c) guidance for girls' education programs; (d) guidance in the NEUBI program, (e)
interinstitutional projects, (f) training and strengthening of teachers of bilingual schools.

(c) Multi-grade Schooling in Rural Guatemala

The main objective of this subcomponent was to increase the number of multi-grade schools in the country
that were applying the active teaching/learning methodology combined with content that was pertinent to
the cultural customs, traditions, and languages of the communities being served.

Approximately, 2,600 rural schools covering all 22 departments in the country participated. Out of the
total number of schools, 1,910 were official rural schools and 690 were PRONADE schools. In total 5,500
teachers from rural areas, of which 1,685 were from PRONADE schools, participated in the training
process that consisted of 20 eight hour seminars for a total of 160 hours of training spanning five months.
The training was delivered by the University of San Carlos through 59 national level networks and the
assistance of 213 tutors and 30 specialists in the multigrade methodology. Teachers completing the course
satisfactorily, benefited by receiving 15 university level credits equivalent to five university courses and
received a diploma in Technical Educational Administration with specialization in active teaching
methodology applied in rural, multigrade schools. The training was completed by February 2002.

The organizers of the training program also coordinated the updating of the 15 training modules, as well as
the updating and editing of the self-learning guides used in multi-grade schooling. In August of 2002,
119,000 second grade self-learning guides in the Q'eqchí language were completed and delivered to schools.
The design and revision of self-learning guides in the areas of mathematics, social sciences, natural
sciences, and communication were supported by the project for grades one to six. As a complement to the
multi-grade methodology training and self-learning guides, the proper teaching tools and educational
classroom aides were supplied to 2,200 rural schools. The learning corners consisted of a mini-classroom
library with about 180 books and a bookcase, maps, globes, flags, rulers, whiteboards, markers, posters,
thermometers, scales, and other didactic materials.

In addition to the PRONADE teachers that participated in the training for active teaching methodology, the
Instituciones de Servicios Educativos (ISEs) trained 10,091 teachers in (a) community development and
self-management; (b) management of intercultural, multi-grade classrooms, and (c) mathematics in the
classroom. With the coordination of DIGEBI and PRONADE they also delivered a three day training to


                                                       - 9 -

764 K'iche and 541 Mam teachers in linguistics.

(d) Fund for Innovations to Support Educational Quality

Originally this activity was designed to support the implementation of fundamentally innovative education
projects for rural areas. To assist the process, the PCU designed an orientation manual for departmental or
school level personnel to use as a guide for presenting their proposals. The project financed 24 proposals
for a total amount of about US$230,000, however, it was determined that the mechanism for
communication about the program was not sufficient enough to generate the demand for the innovation
grants that had originally been envisioned. To remedy the situation, MINEDUC decided to refocus the
subcomponent to target fulfilling the demand for training in multigrade methodologies and didactic
materials for multigrade schools. Approximately, 2500 teachers benefited from the training and learning
guides were printed for approximately 1,000 multigrade schools. Similarly, part of the funds for this
subcomponent were used to design and execute five innovative experiences related to the use of computers
in schools.

Computer/information centers in five municipalities were created. The centers offered sensitization
sessions to educational communities and seminars directed toward teachers and school communities.
Courses in the use of computers and educational software (Micromundos and Mi Isla de la Fantasia) were
given to train teachers. The educational communities have demonstrated the capacity and management skill
to maintain and promote the educational resources available at the centers. Participants of the trainings
continue to use the educational tools available.

(e) National Assessment System - NAS

With support from the project, the Ministry of Education completed three National Assessments of third
and sixth graders (mathematics and reading). The results of the evaluation were presented by the University
del Valle to the Ministry of Education. The third assessment was completed in August 2000. Since then,
MINEDUC agreed to finance the continuation of the system during the year 2001 using local resources,
and during August and September of 2001, Universidad del Valle conducted a new assessment fully
financed with local resources. It was decided by the government that while they supported the continuation
of National Assessments of third and sixth graders in the two mentioned subjects and would provide their
own resources to finance the exams, the next National Assessments to be offered would be postponed.

Component III: Institutional Strengthening (US$13.6 million)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The activities completed under the project successfully supported the Informatics Unit (UDI) in building
the physical, hardware and software infrastructure; training; technical assistance; and management of the
statistical information system. Twenty-two Departmental Directorates were supplied the furniture and
computer equipment necessary to establish these regional units. Additionally, the project supported the
Ministry to purchase and install communications equipment (servers, etc.) to connect eight Directional
Departments which made it possible for them to send and receive information with the network established
at the central ministry. Licenses to operate the databases (ORACLE), antivirus software, and automated
office programs for the regional and central offices were purchased.

Besides the supply of hardware and software, many trainings were delivered to various types of users at the
regional and central offices. Additionally, specialized technical assistance was provided to support UDI
staff in the programming work, design of the databases, training and statistical analysis. The project also


                                                     - 10 -

supported the activities related to the collection, processing and presentation of the informational statistics
which included: design and printing of the statistical bulletins as well as the annual statistical yearbook,
training in the generation and use of educational indicators, controls for quality of information reported,
and general management of the collection and analysis of the statistical data. The activities executed
during project implementation satisfactorily met the planned objectives and the technical assistance
provided to UDI significantly strengthened the establishment of the systems and informational services of
the Ministry. MINEDUC now has a consolidated information system and has demonstrated that they have
the capability to provide better quality reporting of information and statistics.

It is worth mentioning that by project end, this component completed development and delivery of various
products: (i) the modernization and redesign of the process for collecting and analyzing data (statistical
cycle); (ii) more efficient reporting of information; (iii) decentralization of the sector through the
deconcentration of collection and preprocessing of data at the level of the Departmental Directorates; (iv)
establishing Internet connections and the associated benefits (e-mail, intranet, among others); and (v) the
automatization of various processes through the development of informational tools for various
departments in the Ministry.

The project included support to the department offices. Resources were allocated to equip, construct
and/or rehabilitate the departmental offices, however, the second administration decided not to move
forward with this initiative. It was decided to include this support under the new on-going education
project, Universalization of Basic Education.

Component IV: Project Administration (US$1.4 million)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The project supported MINEDUC to develop and improve its project management capacity through the
creation of the PCU that worked closely together with the functional units of the Ministry which were
directly involved n implementation of the project components. The PCU established was highly successful
in contributing to the smooth implementation of most of the activities by providing quality coordination.
The unit benefited by having a proactive director, a solid financial team, and a highly qualified procurement
team. This contributed to the fast-paced implementation, particularly in the first half of the project's life.
While towards the end of the project, some changes in PCU personnel were made, most activities had been
completed and the transition did not affect implementation of remaining activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

As previously indicated under the Institutional Strengthening Component, resources from the Project
contributed to the transformation of the organizational structure of the Ministry. The project supported
significant administrative reforms, the strengthening of MINEDUC's management capacity and strategy for
planning. These changes were institutionalized through the establishment and implementation of new
administrative norms and procedures.




                                                      - 11 -

Another significant impact was the consolidation and modernization of the Informatics Unit within
MINEDUC. The capability for data collection and analysis as a tool for better management decisions was
deconcentrated to the 22 departmental directorates. Each of the directorates were supplied with computer
equipment, software, and professional training. The Informatics Unit played a prominent role in piloting
the general decentralization policy for the ministry.

During project preparation there was an emphasis on wide consultation at the local level as well as with
marginalized groups for their input and shaping of components of the project, making the process more
participatory. In line with the Peace Accords, the project continued to support wide participation and
community involvement in implementation and decision-making as evidenced in the PRONADE program.

The project supported the PRONADE program as an effective management mode to address the challenges
associated with the highly disbursed, rural population of the country. As a result, there was a strong
deconcentration of educational services, and massive participation and direct involvement of the community
and parents of school children. Similarly, support for the organization and operation of parent associations
(juntas escolares) opened up an alternative considered effective for improving the efforts to operationalize
the deconcentration of services and programs.

Further institutional gains are expected under the Universalization of Basic Education Project which also
supports continued institutional strengthening.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During project execution Hurricane Mitch presented an unforeseen need to include school rehabilitation and
construction to parts of the country hit the hardest during this natural disaster. While some resources were
shifted from other parts of the project to cover the construction needs (the majority from the unallocated
category), it did not alter the development objectives of the project, as the activities still contributed to
improvement in coverage and equity in poor, rural areas. The Ministry collaborated with the Social
Investment Fund (FIS) to achieve implementation of school rehabilitation with excellent results.

One factor most favorable to the project, as well as to the education sector in general, was the
implementation of the Peace Accords that supported quantitative compromises that increased the budgetary
resources destined to public education for introducing qualitative reforms to the education system. While
the project was executed under two distinct administrations, the Peace Accords are considered State
agreements and not of a particular government. Therefore, even though the government administration
changed mid-way through project implementation and there were expected changes, it did not represent
substantial shifts in educational priorities. The project was able to maintain its original orientation. This
represents the overreaching beneficial affect the Peace Accords had on the State, and as a consequence to
the implementation of the project as its activities were designed to support the Accords.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project benefited from several factors subject to government control that can be considered favorable.
First, the project was prepared and began execution under the same administration which had a positive
affect on the understanding and support for the project as well as the pace of implementation. Second, the
participatory design of the project and support from the MINEDUC authorities resulted in a project
reflecting the appropriate priorities of the Government for the education sector. Midway through project
implementation there was a change in government and as it usually happens, there is a period of transition.
With the new administration came some issues related to modalities for financing and few changes to



                                                     - 12 -

service delivery of some parts of the project that slowed the pace of implementation. These included among
others, limiting the responsibilities of the ISEs in relationship to education training delivery and attempting
to by pass some of the standard procedures (RISE) established for execution of the PRONADE program.
There were also chronic delays in making payments of the PRONADE teachers' salaries. The new
authorities introduced some changes they considered pertinent, but in general, the new administration
upheld the initial priorities, albeit decentralization was slowed considerably, and were able to successfully
complete the execution of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As it had been planned, the management and supervision of the Project was the responsibility of an
Executive Committee, made up of the Vice Minister of Education, who served as Coordinator, and the
directors responsible for the execution of each project component including the Directors of PRONADE,
UDI, UPE, DIGEBI, SIMAC/DICADE, and the Director of the Project Coordination Unit. Furthermore,
when the topic matter required their input, other staff members were invited to participate in the
Committee, including staff from MINEDUC and other entities related to the Project, who served as
advisers to help make pertinent decisions. The creation and operation of the Committee was very useful,
since it not only made it possible to overcome the problems of coordination faced by previous projects, but
it also adequately decentralized Project activities and involved the directors of the executing units, under
authority of the ministry.

The Project took advantage of the past experience gained in recent years with the implementation of the
Second Basic Education Project (SPEB) financed by IBRD, particularly with respect to the creation of an
institutional capacity to manage the disbursements of the loan, as well as to comply with the procedures
and standards of the Bank in the contracting of works and services and the procurement of goods. It was
possible to systematize the majority of processes and procedures managed by the PCU and above all to
form and train a team of better skilled professionals.

The contracting of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) as a Procurement Agent was a
positive factor that facilitated the implementation of the Project. This judgment was reflected in the praise
of the businessmen who participated in the contracting process, who, upon being consulted, commented that
the acts of bid opening are more serious and that the presence of the UNDP gave confidence, safety and
transparency to the process. The MINEDUC signed an agreement with the UNDP (Project/GUA/98/03) so
that it supported the Project and managed some of the procurement processes (international competitive
biddings and others), which totaled US$14.8 million of the loan.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs at the time of appraisal were estimated to be US$46.8 million, of which the Bank loan
would finance US$33.0 million and the Government would contribute US$13.8 million. The disbursement
pace was rapid in correspondence with the speed at which the project was implemented. Much of the
activities supported by the project were executed well ahead of schedule. As noted earlier, funds were
reallocated in response to the need for rehabilitation of schools after Hurricane Mitch. This shift in
resources coincided with the objective to increase coverage, thereby having a positive affect on the project.
Funds were mostly reassigned from the unallocated category and from areas that were not having as large
an impact or needed less resources to accomplish what was expected, namely from goods and the
educational innovations pilot.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely


                                                       - 13 -

It is very likely that the achievements under the project will be sustained. The best indication for
sustainability is that the Government now has developed and is implementing the Universalization of Basic
Education Project that builds upon the foundations established by the key components and activities of the
project. This includes continuing to increase coverage and equity to rural, indigenous communities through
PRONADE, provision of textbooks and learning guides, bilingual educational materials, promoting
multigrade methodologies and active learning in the classroom, continuation of EMIS, scholarships, and the
modernization and strengthening of the MINEDUC.

Some of the most important components executed by the Project are sustainable as they utilize the
government's own resources and were deliberately designed so that the Government would gradually take
over responsibility so that by the end of the project it would provide full financial support. This is the case
for the first Component - Expansion of Coverage and Equity, which made it possible to increase
educational coverage because the number of rehabilitated schools, PRONADE schools and students were
increased, and the school day was lengthened --all of which made it possible for the project to continue to
function normally after the support from the Bank was concluded. The test for the Government will be to
maintain in a timely manner the payment of PRONADE teachers and ensure the budget allocations
correspond with the planned pace of expansion. PRONADE has demonstrated to be an effective
management mode to address provision of schooling to highly dispersed, rural communities.

In the cases of the other components, some of the activities indeed can continue to be developed with the
government's own financing, but others, for example the training programs and the printing of educational
materials, will need some external support. This situation has been recognized both by IBRD and by the
other international cooperating donors. In terms of institutional strengthening, while the former
administration had slowed efforts to decentralize, the project still was successful to assist the
transformation of the organizational structure of the Ministry and its managing capacity through
establishment of administrative norms and procedures that can be reactivated. The current administration
(entered January 2004) has expressed interest in reinvigorating the effort to modernize and decentralize the
Ministry.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
It has not been difficult to integrate the activities under the Expansion of Coverage and Equity Component
with the regular operations of the MINEDUC, since the financing granted by the Project was
complementary to financing provided by the Ministry to develop as a part of its programs and normal
activities. The challenge here is for government to maintain a timely availability of the budget. The
activities supported by the project under the Improvement of Efficiency and Quality Component, such as
training, design and printing of materials, also do not need greater adjustments or agreements in order to be
incorporated into the educational system. These activities were carried out within the system and the system
is taking advantage of in-service teachers to integrate these activities. When it is necessary to replenish or
to improve the printed materials provided, MINEDUC should request a budgetary increase to assert the
priority that Guatemalan society is increasingly assigning to education.

The performance of the Project Coordinating Unit during the five years of project execution was
satisfactory. Despite some problems in the financial management system detected by an internal audit, it is
important to emphasize that the PCU has achieved in recent years advances in gaining experience in the
management of procurement and financial procedures. The Procurement personnel now better understand
the international standards and the standard documents used by international organizations. They have
received training in order to carry out procurement processes that require a certain level of complexity. The
PCU has also gained experience in the preparation of annual procurement plans.



                                                       - 14 -

Since year 2000, the PCU has taken steps to improve its management systems, and now is implementing
and applying the so-called "Managerial System of Projects"­SIGEPRO. The PCU became the pilot project
within the government of Guatemala to adopt the system developed by the Ministry of Finance to be
utilized by all the projects financed with external resources, in the framework of the Integrated System of
Financial Management (SIAF), which was also supported by Bank financing. However, in 2001 new
professionals joining the technical team of SIAF who were not familiar with the process carried out in the
pilot project, applied modifications to the program, which induced a significant lack of control in its
operation and this prevented system consolidation. Toward the end of 2002 there arose an additional
complication with the introduction of a new version of the operating system "Oracle" in the SIAF, which
makes it necessary to carry out changes in the SIGEPRO in order to update the system. The system is
currently only utilized by the PCU to issue checks.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank team engaged the Government in a productive, widely participatory dialogue to
jointly define the project objectives and the components. Based on the results and recommendations of
several diagnostic sector studies that had been recently conducted, the Bank was in a good position to
                                  1


advise the government in the formation of the components and give guidance on activities that could
significantly impact some of the most prominent problems facing the education sector.      The three
components addressed the critical factors and priorities of the national education system, including low
coverage, deficiencies in quality, and the poor institutional capacity of the Ministry. Working together with
the MINEDUC personnel, the project design emerged in a way that would help address the obstacles
recognized by past project implementation experiences, and paid particular attention to execution capacity.
An important factor was the creation of the Executive Committee, as well as the consideration taken in
designing the role of the PCU as a coordinating unit and the Ministerial departments as implementers,
ultimately building capacity and ensuring ownership beyond preparation.

/1
  See: "Guatemala An Assessment of Poverty" (1995); "Guatemala: Equity Efficiency in Education" (1995);
"Guatemala Building Peace with Rapid and Equitable Growth, Country Economic Memorandum" (1996); y
"Guatemala Investing for Peace: Public Investment Review" (1997).

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the World Bank team can be rated highly satisfactory. No changes in the Task Team
Leader from preparation through to project closing provided the government with consistent and high
quality supervision over the life of the project. The Bank team was careful to provide quality supervision,
adequate and timely missions averaging two or more a year, and regular communication with Ministry
officials, the PCU, and other donors also involved in supporting the Ministry. The team was quick to
respond to issues resulting from the change in administration and was pro-active in identifying ways to
keep the project on track towards achievement of the relevant objectives in the new context presented by the
change in administrations. The education team immediately responded to the Minister's proposal to change
fundamental aspects of the functioning of the PRONADE program and came to a compromise after
providing critical advice and technical assistance, thus preserving the characteristics most important to the
success of the program. The Bank team also worked with the counterparts to support the education system
demonstrated by its timely and flexible response to reallocate funds for rehabilitation of schools damaged
by Hurricane Mitch.




                                                     - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the Bank's thorough and supportive approach to lending and supervision of the Project noted
above, performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank encouraged technical exchanges with the Borrower,
input and feedback from all levels of the Ministry and local consultation with a variety of interest groups
and communities. The professional relationships and open dialogue between the client and Bank team are
factors that contributed to the preparation and negotiation of the new education project currently under
implementation. The follow-on project built on successes and lessons learned from the Basic Education
Reform Project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
On the part of the Borrower, project preparation can be rated satisfactory. From the beginning, the
Ministry was interested in maintaining a participatory approach to designing the project and supporting the
spirit of the Peace Accords by broadly employing public consultation. In 1996 and 1997, 18 public forums
were conducted to ensure an open discussion and the participation of all who were interested. Additionally,
the Ministry encouraged participation of MINEDUC staff at the central and departmental levels to be
involved in preparation of the project. It also included consultation with universities and academic
institutions

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, government implementation was satisfactory, however, some performance differences were
experienced between the first half and second half of project execution. At the start of project
implementation there was a high commitment from all levels of the Ministry starting with the Minister and
continuing to the local levels and the PCU. The Ministry's commitment to the project and achieving the
development objectives is evidenced by the project's rapid execution during the first three years of
implementation when many of the project's goals were achieved well ahead of schedule and about 75
percent of activities had been completed. The change in administration affected the pace of implementation
that had been established in early years of the project as can be common during a transition between
governments. While the new administration generally supported the development objectives of the project
and continued to work towards their achievement, some procedural changes affected the pace and the
established modes for reaching their outcomes. For example, the new administration's desire to introduce
significant procedural changes to the PRONADE program that would alter the modalities of delivery of
services and financing of those services, led to the resignation of the director, an initial slow down in
transfer of resources to COEDUCAs, and a curtailing of the function of the ISEs in the training and
establishing of COEDUCAs. Eventually, the administration came to an agreeable working arrangement.
Despite the recentralizing of some responsibilities that had already been deconcentrated to the local level
and the altering of some aspects of PRONADE, as a whole, the government implementation of the project
was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The Ministry of Education was careful to select well qualified and capable staff for key
positions in the PCU, including financial, procurement, technical and managerial staff. Project execution
benefited by the application of a decentralized administration of project activities. Unlike previous Bank
supported projects, it was maintained that the PCU would play the role of a coordinating unit rather than
take on execution responsibilities. Implementation fell to the jurisdiction of the administrative units of
MINEDUC and each was responsible for the relevant activities that corresponded to the components. This
improved implementation, ownership and relevancy of activities, as well as better integration with the goals



                                                     - 16 -

of the Ministry. Additionally, the PCU's coordinating function helped the ministry to avoid duplication of
activities among projects executed with external funds, as it has the responsibility to coordinate execution
of both the Bank project and the IDB project. This contributed to the smooth implementation during most
of the years of project execution.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
As noted above the overall Borrower performance can be considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons learned can be concluded from the project experience:

l Project experience confirmed that local, rural communities can effectively and transparently manage
    resources transferred by the central level and can hire teachers following established procedures
    regardless of the participants' educational level. Many of the COEDUCAS consisted of parents that
    were illiterate, but still had the capacity to effectively manage their local school.

l Scaling-up implementation of programs is important, particularly as demonstrated by the multi-grade
    methodologies model.

l Satisfactory results reached by the Project are largely due to a sustained continuity in project
    coordination. During almost the entire lifetime of the project, the technical team responsible at the
    PCU that ensured the pursuit, coordination and execution of the activities, was not only maintained but
    it also received fortification through training. The structure of the PCU included the traditional
    pedagogical and financial sections, but also included a procurement section, integrated by personnel
    with the appropriate experience and qualification.

l Project execution benefited by the application of a decentralized administration of project activities,
    with the PCU's main function as a coordinating unit rather than the main implementer of project
    activities.

l So that a decentralized model for execution of project activities can operate effectively, it is necessary
    to (i) provide timely and relevant training to personnel in the operational units of the Ministry
    responsible for the administrative and financial areas; and (ii) permanently assign these technical teams
    so that they can take charge of the implementation of project activities, rather than have staff assigned
    temporarily to activities but with the risk of constantly losing them to other assignments.

l It is beneficial for project execution if the Operations Manual of the Project is adhered to closely. This
    represented a clear advantage for fostering successful relationships between the PCU and the executing
    units because all parties were aware of their roles and duties as established in the manual.

l The MINEDUC must intensify efforts to take advantage of the favorable atmosphere that exists in the
    country to increase budgetary allocations destined to the education sector. Since the Peace Accords
    were signed, the sector has been considered high priority and has generated more attention and raised
    consciousness in political and social sectors for the need to increase investment at least to levels
    considered standard in Latin American countries. A generation of greater internal resources also
    translates to greater opportunities to mobilize external resources.

l The MINEDUC has demonstrated that if external conditions are favorable, for example, having




                                                       - 17 -

  counterpart resources from the Ministry of Public Finances, it has the capacity to successfully execute
  projects.

l The opening of a special account in the Bank of Guatemala and hiring UNDP as procurement agent,
  helped to ease the administrative procedures for disbursing resources from the loan and contributed to
  greater transparency in the procurement and hiring processes.

l In order to optimize the use of the resources and to reach the goals and objectives of the MINEDUC,
  the activities and programs of the Ministry should be systematic and timely. It should capitalize on
  efforts where national capacity is growing and where government resources have been assigned to
  compliment loan resources, such as PRONERE and other priority activities.




                                                  - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                    RESUMEN EJECUTIVO

Principales Indicadores de Desempeño

1.       Los principales indicadores de desempeño del Proyecto son favorables.          Se estima que la
sostenibilidad de las actividades es probable (parcialmente), su impacto en el desarrollo institucional del
sector educación es substancial, y tanto el desempeño del BIRF como del MINEDUC fueron satisfactorios.

Evaluación de los Objetivos de Desarrollo, el Diseño y de la Calidad al Inicio

Objetivos originales

2.       Los objetivos del Proyecto fueron: i) aumentar la cobertura y equidad de la educación preprimaria
y primaria; ii) mejorar la eficiencia y la calidad de la educación primaria rural; y iii) fortalecer la
organización y administración del MINEDUC. Estos objetivos forman parte del Programa de Reforma
Educativa del país.

Objetivos revisados

3.       Los objetivos del Proyecto no fueron modificados, aunque sí hubo necesidad de enmendar el
Convenio de Préstamo para introducir la actividad de construcción y rehabilitación de escuelas que no
había sido prevista.

Calidad al inicio del proyecto

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

4.       El Proyecto fue diseñado de manera participativa con la colaboración directa de las autoridades y
de los funcionarios del MINEDUC, lo que aseguró que los objetivos y actividades contempladas fueran
bien definidas y que se minimizaran los obstáculos para su implementación. Los riesgos críticos que fueron
identificados en el PAD y que se habían presentado en los proyectos anteriores fueron superados
satisfactoriamente.

Evaluación de los Objetivos y Productos Alcanzados

5.       El Proyecto formó parte de las iniciativas aprobadas para respaldar el cumplimiento de los
Acuerdos de Paz suscritos entre el Gobierno de la República de Guatemala y la Unidad Revolucionaria
Nacional Guatemalteca ­URNG-, que culminaron con la suscripción de los últimos acuerdos el 29 de
diciembre de 1996. La cobertura del Proyecto comprendió principalmente a la población rural de los nueve
departamentos que conforman la denominada ZONAPAZ, que fue el área más afectada por el conflicto
armado interno y que coincide también con el área geográfica que concentra los más altos porcentajes de la
población en situación de pobreza y la que registra los indicadores educativos más desfavorables del país.




                                                   - 19 -

6.       El Proyecto se benefició de un contexto económico más favorable que el que experimentaron los
proyectos educativos anteriores. Ello explica la mejora sustancial en la entrega de los aportes en concepto
de contrapartida que correspondió al Gobierno de la República, que había sido uno de los factores críticos
en la ejecución de proyectos financiados con recursos externos. No obstante, durante la ejecución del
Proyecto se presentaron en forma recurrente algunos problemas relacionados con la asignación insuficiente
de recursos en las partidas presupuestarias que correspondían a algunos rubros.

Resultados/Logro de los objetivos

7.       El Proyecto alcanzó la mayoría de sus objetivos y resultados, principalmente en lo que se refiere a
la expansión de la cobertura del sistema escolar y al mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación. En el área
de modernización institucional y de desconcentración y descentralización, se debe destaca el nuevo papel
que han asumido las direcciones departamentales dentro de la administración del sector educación. A
diferencia de los proyectos anteriores ejecutados en el sector educación en Guatemala, el Proyecto cumplió
estrictamente con el período de ejecución programado de cinco años sin requerir ampliación alguna.

Resultados por componente

Componente 1. Cobertura y Equidad

a)       Construcción y rehabilitación de edificios escolares

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

8.       La construcción y rehabilitación de escuelas fue una actividad que no había sido prevista en el
diseño original. Como consecuencia de la destrucción que ocasionó en 1998 el huracán "Mitch" el
Gobierno de Guatemala solicitó y obtuvo del BIRF la enmienda del Convenio de Préstamo. Para ejecutar
esta actividad el MINEDUC suscribió convenios con el Fondo de Inversión Social (FIS) y con la Secretaría
Ejecutiva de la Presidencia de la República (SEP).          El programa cubrió en total la construcción,
reconstrucción y/o rehabilitación de 164 planteles educativos. Todo el proceso finalizó satisfactoriamente a
principios de 2001.

b)      Expansión del Programa de Autogestión Comunitaria por medio de PRONADE

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

9.       El PRONADE ha tenido un gran éxito para ampliar la cobertura educativa en el sector rural. Este
subcomponente mostró un desempeño satisfactorio. Las principales actividades contempladas finalizaron
en el año 1999 con un adelanto de más de dos años respecto a la fecha prevista. La meta de aumentar la
matrícula en 75,000 estudiantes fue superada ampliamente, El Programa pasó de atender a 64,000 niños
matriculados en 1997 a 272,753 en el primer semestre de 2000, es decir un incremento de 208,753
alumnos.

c)       Ampliación de las jornadas vespertinas

Calificación ICR: No satisfactoria




                                                   - 20 -

10.      Este subcomponente no logró cumplir satisfactoriamente las metas previstas y continuó registrando
algunos de los problemas que ya se habían presentado durante la ejecución del SPEB financiado también
por el BIRF. Entre 1998 y 1999 se crearon 800 plazas de docentes para laborar en jornadas vespertinas de
las 2,000 plazas que habían sido contempladas para 2002, de las cuales se ha nombrado a 765 maestros en
439 escuelas. A finales de diciembre de 2002, se les había distribuido 763 juegos del mobiliario consistente
en silla y mesa de trabajo para el maestro, librera, rotafolio y pizarrón. Debido a estos problemas, se
reevaluó la estrategia de apoyo a los maestros de las jornadas vespertinas. El principal obstáculo para
cumplir con las metas radicó en que no se crearon plazas para escuelas existentes o para abrir nuevas aulas
en jornadas vespertinas. En consecuencia se decidió que parte de los recursos que tenía asignados se
destinaran a jornadas vespertinas de algunas escuelas multigrado que participaron en el programa de
inmersión en metodología activa, así como algunas aulas que formaron parte de las actividades del SPEB y
cuyos maestros fueron nombrados después de que este proyecto finalizó.

d)       Expansión del Programa de la Niña

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

11.      El objetivo del Programa de la Niña fue contribuir a la incorporación de las niñas al sistema
educativo y retenerlas en las escuelas hasta que logren completar la escuela primaria. Para ello se
contempló la sensibilización de las comunidades educativas y además se incluyó actividades de divulgación
sobre la importancia de educar a las niñas. Las principales actividades realizadas fueron: el desarrollo de
una campaña de divulgación sobre la importancia de educar a las niñas y motivar a las niñas becadas por el
Ministerio para que completen la educación primaria; la distribución de 10,000 bolsones o mochilas
impresos; la organización y desarrollo del III Encuentro Nacional de Educación de la Niña; y la ejecución
de un proyecto cuyo objetivo fue fortalecer la comunicación y la coordinación con los equipos
departamentales.

Componente 2. Eficiencia y Calidad

12.      Por medio de este componente se logró mejorar la eficiencia y calidad de la educación primaria en
el área rural, buscando contribuir a la reducción de los índices de deserción escolar y la repitencia. Para
alcanzar ese objetivo se desarrollaron programas de capacitación, especialmente en el área bilingüe
intercultural y en el uso de metodologías de enseñanza multigrado, se financió asesoría técnica, el
desarrollo curricular, la elaboración de materiales pedagógicos, y la creación y operación de un sistema de
evaluación del rendimiento escolar.

a)       Capacitación a docentes y administradores

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

·        Diplomado para docentes rurales de primer grado

13.      En esta actividad participaron 352 personas de las cuales 330 fueron maestros y 22
coordinadores técnicos pedagógicos (CTPs). Esta actividad cubrió 10 departamentos del país y
se ejecutó con la participación de una ONG denominada INAPRODE.

·        Programa de Inmersión en la Metodología Activa a Docentes en Servicio de Escuelas



                                                    - 21 -

Rurales Multigrado

14.      Esta actividad tuvo como objetivo ampliar el número de escuelas en todo el país que aplican la
metodología activa y requirió la movilización de una gran capacidad institucional del MINEDUC.
Participaron 2,599 escuelas rurales ubicadas en los 22 departamentos del país, de las cuales 1,910 fueron
escuelas rurales oficiales y 689 pertenecían al PRONADE ubicadas en el departamento de Alta Verapaz.
El número total de maestros participantes fue de alrededor de 5,500. La inmersión tuvo una duración total
de 160 horas de formación docente en un periodo de 5 meses.

15.      El programa académico implicó la transferencia de la tecnología de la metodología activa,
contenida en 15 módulos de formación docente que fueron adaptados y actualizados por los organizadores.
Incluyó también como complemento la entrega de material didáctico de apoyo como mini bibliotecas (180
títulos), la adquisición de los elementos de los rincones de aprendizaje y las libreras. Los maestros que
completaron satisfactoriamente el programa de capacitación y cumplan con los requisitos exigidos por la
USAC podrán beneficiarse de 15 créditos universitarios equivalentes a 5 cursos universitarios y de un
diploma de Técnico en Administración Educativa con especialidad en metodología activa aplicada a
escuelas rurales multigrado. Las escuelas a las que pertenecen los maestros obtuvieron una mini biblioteca
con sus respectivas libreras (2,000), ludoteca, elementos para rincones de aprendizaje, pabellón nacional y
casetes del himno nacional, y guías de autoaprendizaje.

·        Formación en lecto-escritura en idiomas mayas

16.      DIGEBI desarrolló un programa de formación de maestros bilingües que implicó un proceso previo
de elaboración de materiales pedagógicos y la formación de docentes. Los idiomas que se incluyeron fueron
los tres considerados mayoritarios: kaqchikel, mam y q'eqchí y cinco minoritarios: tz'utujil, q'anjob'al,
popti', chuj y poqoman. En total se capacitó a 3,980 maestros. Consistió en 5 días de trabajo de 5 horas
cada uno, para completar un total de 25 horas. Los maestros que participaron son docentes en servicio en
los niveles de preprimaria y primaria. Previamente se capacitó a 120 formadores en la metodología de la
lecto-escritura, así como la potenciación del conocimiento del idioma, gramática elemental y nociones
generales de la estandarización. Cada maestro recibió como material de aprendizaje una gramática en su
idioma y un diccionario.

·        Diplomado en currículo, lingüística y gerencia educativa

17.      Con el propósito de formar recursos humanos calificados de la DIGEBI en las áreas de lingüística,
currículum y gerencia educativa, se realizó un programa de Diplomado que tuvo como objetivo elevar el
nivel técnico de los equipos de docentes bilingües de base, de los equipos técnico-administrativos y de los
docentes bilingües. Finalizaron el programa 168 técnicos. El Diplomado tuvo una duración total de 7 meses
acumulando un total de 544 horas efectivas.

·        Apoyo al Programa de Profesionalización Docente

18.      El Proyecto apoyó diversas actividades del Programa de Profesionalización Docente, que consistió
en proporcionar material educativo (240,000 textos, 85,000 módulos, 60,000 juegos de la unidad 1 del
módulo No. 3 y 4, reproducción de materiales educativos y otros), servicios de alimentación a los asistentes
a los talleres, rotafolios y otros. Asimismo, se apoyó a DIGEBI para que en conjunto con DICADE,
realizara tres talleres de inducción en el que participaron 1,300 personas de los 22 departamentos del país,
que incluyeron a facilitadores, directores departamentales, coordinadores de sede de las universidades,



                                                     - 22 -

coordinadores del programa del MINEDUC y monitores pedagógicos.

·        Capacitación a docentes de las escuelas de PRONADE

19.      Además de la capacitación a los docentes de PRONADE en metodologías activas, por medio de los
servicios de las Instituciones de Servicios Educativos ­ISEs-, se capacitó a 10,091 maestros en jornadas de
una duración de 3 días en los temas de a) desarrollo comunitario y autogestión, b) manejo del aula
multigrado intercultural, y c) matemática en el aula. Adicionalmente, en coordinación con DIGEBI el
PRONADE también capacitó en jornadas de 3 días a 764 docentes k'iche's y 541 mames en el área
lingüística.

·        Otras actividades de capacitación

20.      Adicionalmente, el Proyecto apoyó un conjunto de actividades orientadas a la capacitación entre
las que pueden mencionarse dos encuentros motivacionales formativos y de sensibilización a docentes de
preprimaria, talleres de capacitación para madres de familia, talleres para facilitadores bilingües, maestros
bilingües y otros.

·        Asistencia técnica a DIGEBI

21.      Durante la ejecución del Proyecto se prestó asistencia técnica a DIGEBI por medio de la
contratación de consultores en áreas tales como políticas y estrategias para el desarrollo de programas de
profesionalización del recurso humano en servicio, adaptación de métodos y materiales educativos, asesoría
de la niña, asesoría en el programa NEUBI, proyectos interinstitucionales y capacitación y formación de
docentes de las escuelas bilingües interculturales.

b)       Desarrollo Curricular y Materiales Pedagógicos

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

22.      Los recursos asignados a este subcomponente se redujeron sustancialmente como
consecuencia de la inclusión de actividades no previstas.               Sin embargo, se logró apoyar
actividades importantes para mejorar la calidad educativa.

Desarrollo curricular

23.      El Proyecto contribuyó con SIMAC/DICADE, DIGEBI y las dependencias especializadas del
Ministerio en el diseño de un nuevo currículum. Para el efecto, se contrató un grupo de especialistas
quienes trabajaron juntamente con el equipo de profesionales a cargo del diseño de la profesionalización
docente del recurso humano del MINEDUC.

Materiales pedagógicos

24.      Con recursos del Proyecto se financió la diagramación, ilustración, traducción, impresión y
distribución de materiales pedagógicos, entre ellos guías de auto-aprendizaje y textos en los diferentes
idiomas para las áreas de matemática y cultura maya. Se adquirieron y entregaron libros de gramática y
diccionarios en 9 idiomas mayas, textos de gramática y diccionarios en varios idiomas. Se distribuyeron



                                                   - 23 -

manuales de lectoescritura, grabadoras DVD, reproductoras portátiles, televisores, equipos de sonido y
otros equipos y materiales.

Programa Nacional de Educación Cívica y Valores

25.      El Proyecto apoyó este Programa mediante una serie de actividades que incluyeron la distribución
de folletos de divulgación, actividades de sensibilización, reuniones regionales de fortalecimiento, jornadas
de inducción con orientadores, talleres, impresión y distribución de manuales, entrega de banderas y otros.

c)       Sistema Nacional de Evaluación del Rendimiento Escolar

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

26.      El PRONERE inició sus actividades en 1997. Su principal objetivo fue monitorear los logros
académicos de los alumnos de tercero y sexto grados de primaria. Con recursos del Proyecto se realizaron
tres mediciones: la primera en 1998, la segunda en 1999 y la tercera y última finalizó en 2000. Las
mediciones se aplicaron en matemática y lectura y en factores asociados al rendimiento académico. La
confiabilidad de las pruebas fue alta y los procedimientos utilizados rigurosos. La ejecución del programa
fue contratada con la Universidad del Valle de Guatemala. A finales de 2001 el MINEDUC, con recursos
propios, llevó a cabo una cuarta medición, siempre mediante la contratación de la Universidad del Valle.
Esta evaluación tuvo en general las mismas características de las tres anteriores. Debido a restricciones
presupuestarias, en 2002 el MINEDUC interrumpió las evaluaciones.

d)       Promoción de Innovaciones Educacionales

Calificación ICR: Insatisfactoria

27.      El objetivo de este subcomponente era fomentar el desarrollo de programas o proyectos
innovadores y novedosos e intervenciones a nivel central, departamental y local buscando mejorar la
cobertura escolar y la calidad de la educación básica.         Desafortunadamente, su desempeño no fue
satisfactorio. En general se considera que las propuestas de innovaciones que fueron aprobadas tendieron a
responder a solicitudes de recursos que en principio deberían de haber sido cubiertas por el presupuesto
regular del MINEDUC.

Componente 3. Fortalecimiento Institucional

a)       Mejora de la Organización y Administración del MINEDUC

i)       Reorganización del Nivel Central, Departamental y Local del MINEDUC

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

28.      El Proyecto continuó apoyando el programa de modernización del MINEDUC. La reforma se
realizó con base en un estudio de la administración general y de las dependencias del MINEDUC y
conllevó un conjunto de cambios que comprendieron, entre otras modificaciones, una propuesta de
estructura organizacional y operativa reducida y simplificada de la planta central del Ministerio, el diseño e
implementación de las 22 direcciones departamentales, y una reclasificación general de los puestos y



                                                    - 24 -

salarios que se puso en práctica a partir del año 2000.

ii)     Construcción / Rehabilitación y Equipamiento de las Sedes de las Direcciones
        Departamentales

Calificación ICR: Insatisfactoria

29.     Esta actividad formaba parte de los esfuerzos por fortalecer la desconcentración y
descentralización de los servicios educativos hacia las 22 cabeceras departamentales. Se pretendía que en
cada departamento del país se contara con una sede física que albergara las oficinas del Ministerio. No
obstante, el Ministerio al evaluar la conveniencia de continuar con esta actividad decidió posponer la
construcción de las sedes departamentales, tomando en cuenta que a su criterio existían actividades
calificadas con mayor prioridad a las cuales se debían de asignar los recursos.

iii)    Entrenamiento en administración del sector público para fortalecer la entrega de
        servicios en los niveles descentralizados

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

30.     Las actividades que corresponden a este apartado consistieron en un seminario taller de
descentralización y desconcentración, la organización de una reunión sobre los diversos componentes de la
descentralización educativa, una reunión a las OSCs y UPAFs para que conocieran mejor la base legal de
las Juntas Escolares y los mecanismos e instrumentos de control técnico, administrativo y financiero, y
colaboración con el Programa de Modernización y Descentralización (PROMODE) para fortalecer el
proceso de desconcentración.

iv)     Diseño, desarrollo e implementación de un sistema de evaluación del desempeño de
        los funcionarios del MINEDUC

Calificación ICR: Insatisfactoria

Este sistema no fue implementado.

v)      Desarrollo y mejoramiento del Sistema de Información del MINEDUC

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

31.     El Proyecto apoyó la gestión de la Unidad de Informática en la creación de una infraestructura
computacional básica, en el desarrollo de diversos programas de capacitación, en la prestación de
asistencia técnica y en la gestión de las estadísticas educativas. Respecto a la infraestructura se adquirió el
mobiliario y los equipos de cómputo para apoyar la sede central y las 22 direcciones departamentales. Se
compraron las licencias de bases de datos y diversos programas. Se llevó a cabo un conjunto de programas
de capacitación dirigidos a los diferentes niveles del MINEDUC. Cada año se realizaron talleres dedicados
a capacitar a los responsables de la recolección procesamiento y uso de la información estadística.
Asimismo, se realizó una capacitación continua en el desarrollo de software, lenguajes de programación y
sistemas operativos. También se implementó un nodo de Internet, se desarrolló la intranet, y se diseñó,
desarrolló y publicó el portal web y el servicio de correo electrónico, correo de voz y videoconferencias del



                                                     - 25 -

MINEDUC.        Adicionalmente, se desarrolló un sistema informático que permite el cálculo de los
indicadores educativos en forma automatizada. Gracias al Proyecto se ha logrado consolidar a la UDI y
establecer un sistema de información moderno y eficiente en el MINEDUC.

 b)      Descentralización del MINEDUC

i)      Contratar y Asistir a las Instituciones Especializadas en Servicios Educativos (ISES)

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

32.     La expansión de la cobertura de PRONADE se realizó mediante una estrategia que privilegió la
descentralización de sus intervenciones, en particular la contratación de instituciones especializadas en
servicios educativos ­ISES-. De acuerdo a las evaluaciones que se han practicado, PRONADE ha logrado
desarrollar modalidades que han permitido una mejor relación de costo-efectividad en los servicios de
seguimiento y capacitación de los COEDUCAs. Las principales políticas que se han impulsado incluyeron:
a) focalizar los servicios subcontratados para la capacitación y seguimiento a los COEDUCAS; b)
reasumir el pago de los gastos logísticos y de movilización para la capacitación de los COEDUCAS; y c)
negociar con las ISEs un mejor servicio con costos sostenibles para generar un mejor servicio.

ii)     Establecer COEDUCAS y proveer asistencia técnica y materiales

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

33.     Con el apoyo del Proyecto, el PRONADE por intermedio de las Instituciones de Servicios
Educativos capacitó a 3,428 integrantes de las juntas directivas de los COEDUCAS en los temas
pedagógicos, administrativos y socioculturales. Se contrató a 19 ISEs con el objeto de dar acompañamiento
a 2,987 comunidades. Esta actividad consistió en la capacitación durante 6 días de tres miembros de la
junta directiva de los COEDUCA y visitas para prestar asesoría y monitoreo.

iii)    Establecer y capacitar Juntas Escolares

Calificación ICR: Satisfactoria

34.     El Programa de Juntas Escolares (JE) respaldado por el Proyecto representó una clara alternativa
de participación comunitaria. Mediante la contratación de ONGs, se constituyeron e implementaron un
total de 8,379 JE, bajo la modalidad de asociaciones civiles con la participación de maestros y padres de
familia de cada centro educativo. Las JE también administran a partir del año 2000 los programas de
becas. Para mejorar su funcionamiento se implementó un proceso de capacitación que consistió en talleres
de capacitación y seguimiento en el que participaron 6,492 personas.

Tasa Interna de Retorno

35.     Con base en estudios previos, en el PAD se calculó que la tasa interna de retorno para este
Proyecto podría alcanzar un 28%. Los beneficios esperados se derivaban de: i) la inscripción adicional de
alumnos y terminación de la educación primaria; ii) la reducción de las tasas de repetición, la reducción de
las tasas de deserción y el incremento en las calificaciones entre los estudiantes; y iii) una mejora en los
costos administrativos. Sin embargo, la elaboración de una línea base que estaba prevista no se llegó a
concretar. Esta circunstancia impide una evaluación rigurosa del impacto que pudo tener el Proyecto en los



                                                   - 26 -

indicadores educativos dentro del área de cobertura y estimar los beneficios económicos potenciales que
podrían haberse generado. Además, se considera que algunas de las actividades ejecutadas tendrán un
impacto efectivo en un período futuro posterior al de ejecución. Otro factor que complica la evaluación
radica en la concurrencia de varias intervenciones simultaneas en la misma zona geográfica. A pesar de
estas dificultades de orden cuantitativo, se considera que está fuera de toda duda la rentabilidad de la
inversión realizada.

Impacto en el Desarrollo Institucional

36.      Se puede afirmar que el Proyecto tuvo un impacto importante para mejorar la capacidad
institucional del MINEDUC. Con recursos del Proyecto se contribuyó a la transformación de la estructura
organizativa del Ministerio que implicó significativas reformas administrativas y el fortalecimiento de su
capacidad gerencial y de planeamiento estratégico. Estos cambios se materializaron también en el
ordenamiento de las funciones normativas y reglamentarias. Asimismo, se logró impulsar y consolidar al
PRONADE, como una modalidad de gestión efectiva para resolver los desafíos que plantea el alto grado de
dispersión y ruralidad de la población. Además, mediante el apoyo a la organización y operación de las
juntas escolares, se abrió una alternativa que se considera eficaz para mejorar el funcionamiento
desconcentrado de algunos servicios y programas.

Principales Factores que Afectaron la Implementación y los Productos del Proyecto

·        Factores fuera del control del gobierno o de unidad ejecutora

37.      Durante la ejecución del Proyecto no se presentaron factores que estuvieran fuera del control del
gobierno o de la unidad coordinadora que afectaran negativamente sus actividades. Por el contrario y a
diferencia de proyectos anteriores, el ambiente externo en general fue positivo.

·        Factores generalmente sujetos al control del gobierno

38.      El Proyecto se benefició de varios factores que pueden ser considerados favorables. Fue formulado
en el período en que se iniciaba el gobierno y su ejecución empezó a mediados de esa misma
administración. Además, fue diseñado con la participación activa y directa de las autoridades del
MINEDUC y durante los cuatro años del período de gobierno no se registraron cambios en las autoridades
superiores del Ministerio. Con el cambio de gobierno y de las autoridades superiores del Ministerio en el
año 2000, se produjeron las reticencias que son naturales en cualquier cambio de administración, pero en
general se mantuvieron las prioridades iniciales y se logró completar exitosamente la ejecución del
Proyecto. Por otro lado, la ejecución simultanea de dos proyectos con componentes muy relacionados
financiados por dos organismos financieros internacionales distintos (BIRF y BID), pudo ser armonizada
gracias a que fueron ejecutados por la misma unidad coordinadora.

·        Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la unidad ejecutora (UCP)

39.      La dirección y supervisión del Proyecto estuvo a cargo de un Comité Ejecutivo. La creación y
funcionamiento de este Comité resultó muy conveniente, pues no sólo permitió superar los problemas de
coordinación que habían enfrentado los proyectos anteriores, sino también desconcentrar de manera
adecuada las actividades del Proyecto e involucrar a los directivos de las unidades ejecutoras, bajo la
dirección de una autoridad superior del ministerio. Se logró sistematizar la mayoría de los procesos y
procedimientos a cargo de la UCP y sobre todo conformar y entrenar un equipo de profesionales mejor


                                                    - 27 -

calificados. La contratación como agente de compras del Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el
Desarrollo ­PNUD- fue un factor positivo que facilitó la ejecución del Proyecto y mejoró su transparencia.

Costos y financiamiento

40.     El costo total del Proyecto fue estimado inicialmente en US$ 46.8 millones, de los cuales el Banco
Mundial se comprometió a aportar US$ 33.0 millones y el gobierno los restantes US$ 13.8 millones. Los
costos totales del Proyecto se mantuvieron inalterables. Al 31 de diciembre de 2002 el préstamo se había
desembolsado totalmente y solamente estaba pendiente de comprometer un saldo remanente de US$ 0.9
millones. De la contrapartida que correspondía aportar al gobierno sólo faltaba desembolsar por el
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas US$ 0.2 millones.

Probabilidad de la sostenibilidad y seguimiento

Calificación ICR: Probable (parcialmente)

41.     Algunos de los componentes más importantes que ejecutó el Proyecto son sostenibles utilizando
recursos propios del gobierno. Ese es el caso del componente No.1 que permitió aumentar la cobertura
educativa. En los casos de los otros dos componentes la situación no es tan favorable. Algunas de las
actividades sí podrán continuar desarrollándose con financiamiento propio, pero otras como por ejemplo los
programas de capacitación y la impresión de materiales educativos necesitarán del apoyo externo durante
algún tiempo.

Acuerdos de transición a las operaciones regulares

42.     Las actividades cuyos objetivos eran ampliar la cobertura no han tenido ninguna dificultad para
integrarse en las operaciones del MINDEDUC, pues el financiamiento otorgado por el Proyecto era un
complemento de programas que se desarrollan como parte de sus programas y actividades regulares. Las
mejoras apoyadas por el proyecto en la calidad educativa y para el fortalecimiento institucional tampoco
necesitan de mayores ajustes o acuerdos.

Desempeño del BIRF y del Gobierno de la República

Desempeño del Banco

·       Preparación

43.     La asesoría del Banco contribuyó a identificar adecuadamente los componentes y actividades que
deberían conformar el Proyecto. Los tres componentes apuntaron a enfrentar los factores críticos y atender
las prioridades del sistema educativo nacional, como son la baja cobertura, las deficiencias de calidad de
los servicios y la debilidad institucional del MINEDUC. El Banco juntamente con el personal del
MINEDUC diseñó el Proyecto de manera tal que pudieran superarse los obstáculos que se habían
registrado en proyectos anteriores. Por aparte, el Proyecto mantuvo un enfoque participativo desde el inicio
de la preparación.




                                                    - 28 -

·        Supervisión

44.      Las tareas de supervisión del Banco pueden ser calificadas de satisfactorias. Desde la misma
formulación del Proyecto se previó la necesidad de una estrecha supervisión y apoyo. El Banco prestó
asistencia técnica y monitoreo en la implementación de las diferentes actividades del Proyecto, que significó
importantes aportes para la ejecución exitosa de cada uno de los componentes.

·        Desempeño general del Banco

45.      El desempeño del Banco desde la fase de identificación del Proyecto hasta su terminación fue
satisfactorio.

Desempeño del Prestatario

·        Desempeño de la implementación del gobierno

46.      La implementación del Proyecto por parte del gobierno fue satisfactoria. No obstante que el
Proyecto fue ejecutado por dos administraciones diferentes, en ambos casos se mantuvo su prioridad y se le
proporcionó el respaldo que necesitaba.

·        Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto

47.      El desempeño de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto durante los cinco años de ejecución fue
satisfactorio.

·        Desempeño general del prestatario

48.      El desempeño general del prestatario fue satisfactorio en las diferentes etapas del proceso de
implementación del Proyecto. La mayoría de los componentes fueron ejecutados con éxito no obstante que
algunos implicaron desafíos considerables a la capacidad instalada del Ministerio.

Lecciones Aprendidas

a).      Los resultados satisfactorios alcanzados por el Proyecto se deben en gran medida a que se logró
mantener la continuidad en la coordinación del Proyecto.

b).      El Proyecto demostró los beneficios que pueden obtenerse por medio de la aplicación de una
administración descentralizada. La ejecución se realizó por medio de las unidades administrativas que eran
responsables de cada uno de los componentes.

c)       Es necesaria la capacitación oportuna del personal responsable de las áreas administrativas y
financieras de las unidades ejecutoras y además esos equipos técnicos deben ser asignados de manera
permanente.

d)       La estricta aplicación del Manual de Operaciones del Proyecto representó una clara ventaja para la
propia UCP y para su relacionamiento exitoso con las unidades ejecutoras.




                                                   - 29 -

e)      Se comprobó la necesidad de que los proyectos cuenten con un comité ejecutivo que dirija y
coordine las actividades, en el que participe una autoridad del más alto nivel del Ministerio y los directivos
de las dependencias que tendrán la responsabilidad de ejecutarlo.

f)      El conocimiento de las autoridades superiores del Ministerio, en cuanto al alcance y contenido del
Proyecto, así como de sus modalidades de ejecución, asegura una respuesta positiva para el cumplimiento
de los compromisos y responsabilidades asumidas.

g)      Durante la ejecución del Proyecto se evidenció las ventajas que representa que una sola entidad ­la
UCP- coordine los proyectos que se ejecutan con financiamiento externo provenientes de diferentes
agencias. La coordinación de la UCP permitió armonizar apropiadamente las actividades respaldadas por
esas entidades, evitar duplicaciones inconvenientes y potenciar el uso de los recursos.

h).     La apertura de una cuenta especial en el Banco de Guatemala y la contratación del PNUD como
agente de compras, agilizaron los procedimientos administrativos para desembolsar los recursos del
préstamo y contribuyeron a darle una mayor transparencia a los procesos de adquisición y contrataciones.

i).     El MINEDUC demostró que si las condiciones externas a la institución son favorables, sí tiene
capacidad para ejecutar exitosamente proyectos de cierta envergadura e incluso proyectos que puedan
implicar montos de recursos mayores.

j)      El MINEDUC debe tratar de aprovechar el ambiente favorable que existe en el país para aumentar
aún más las asignaciones presupuestarias destinadas a la educación. A partir de la suscripción de los
Acuerdos de Paz el sector ha sido considerado de alta prioridad y se ha generado una conciencia creciente
en todos los sectores políticos y sociales.

k)      Para optimizar el uso de los recursos y alcanzar las metas y objetivos del MINEDUC, los
programas y actividades del Ministerio debieran ser sistemáticos y sostenidos en el tiempo.

l).     La continuidad de la gerencia del Proyecto por parte del Banco Mundial también puede
considerarse un factor altamente positivo.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                   - 30 -

10. Additional Information

N/A




                              - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Primary Net Enrollment to increase from                                   By 2001, primary gross enrollment rate
68.2% to 85% by End of Project (EOP).                                     reached 102% and net enrollment reached
                                                                          85%.
Universal coverage achieved for the first                                 % of students completing grade six increased
three grades of primary school.                                           to 50% by 2000.
Gross rural enrollment to increase annually                               With measurements starting in 1997, gross
by 6%.                                                                    rural enrollment increased annually by an
                                                                          average of 7.6%. Increases ranged from
                                                                          about 4% to 14%, with the largest increases
                                                                          realized during 1998 and 1999 at a little over
                                                                          13% each.
Girls' rural enrollment to grow from 44.4% to
48% by EOP.

Drop out rate in rural areas to decrease from                             Overall the drop out rate for primary school
10.5% to 5% by EOP.                                                       children has decrease to an average of 7%.
Repetition decreases from 17% in 1996 to                                  In 2001, repetition has been measured at
5% by EOP.                                                                14.6%, only about 2.4 percentage points
                                                                          down from 17% in 1996.
Significant increase in mean achievement
scores for math and language tests by EOP.
Redefinition of roles and functions at each                               The redefinition of roles and functions at
level of MINEDUC by EOP.                                                  each level of the Ministry's structure was
                                                                          completed by year 2000, however, it was not
                                                                          fully executed in practice due to change in
                                                                          administrations. The current Ministry is
                                                                          interested in upholding the work
                                                                          accomplished and reinvigorating the effort to
                                                                          decentralize.


Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Expansion of Coverage and Equity

a) Approximately 1,650 new teachers                                       The Coverage goals were surpassed by
contracted and 75,000 new students enrolled                               2000, with 272,753 students attending
in PRONADE schools by 2000                                                PRONADE schools which represents and
                                                                          increase of about 208,753 new students
                                                                          since 1996.


b) 1,000 new afternoon shifts established,                                116,000 students of which 57,000 were first
2000 teachers hired and 70,000 new                                        graders benefited from the afternoon shifts
students enrolled by EOP                                                  created at 439 schools. 765 teachers were
                                                                          appointed to teach at the shifts.
c) Construction/rehabilitation of 71 schools                              A total of 164 schools were rehabilitated.
affected by hurricane Mitch.


II. Improved efficiency and quality:
                                                                          Project supported MINEDUC's teacher
a) Approximately 13,700 teachers                                          professionalization program where 10,091
(PRONADE and other rural teachers) trained                                PRONADE teachers completed training in
by 2002 in multigrade and bilingual                                       diverse course offerings. Additionally, four
methodologies and "Programa de la Nina"                                   teacher training programs were designed and
issues.                                                                   delivered specifically to enhance teacher
                                                                          skills in targeted areas: a)352 teachers
                                                                          completed special training for delivering first
                                                                          grade curricula. b) Approx. 5,500 teachers
                                                                          benefited from training in active teaching




                                                       - 32 -

                                                          methodology and multigrade teaching
                                                          methodology. c) 3,980 teachers were trained
                                                          in reading of Mayan languages. d) 168
                                                          teacher graduated with diplomas in
                                                          curriculum and linguistic educational
                                                          management.
b) 600 packages of teaching materials and                 Thousands of packages of educational
150,000 packages of pedagogic materials                   materials were designed, translated (into
distributed to schools each year                          some of the Mayan languages), printed and
                                                          distributed for use by teachers and by rural
                                                          children, especially those attending
                                                          PRONADE schools.
c) National Assessment System designed                    Under contract to the project, the University
and baseline tests applied in math and                    Del Valle administered three assessments,
language to students in grades 3 and 6                    one each in 1998, 1999, and 2000. The
                                                          fourth assessment was administered with
                                                          financing from the government.
III. Institutional modernization:

a) Yearly training seminars for MINEDUC
staff members (90 each year) and dept.
personnel (60 each year) on org.
development, strategic planning, budgeting
and finance, and human resource mgmt.
b) Establishment of 22 departmental                       The 22 Departmental Directorates were
directorates                                              established and are operating according to
                                                          norms and descriptions designed to guide
                                                          the process.
c) Establishment of at least 5,400 education              Over 8,600 COEDUCAS now manage
community associations and training of some               PRONADE schools.
16,200 members by 2000.

1End of project




                                                - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                                              Appraisal  Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                               Estimate       Estimate         Appraisal
 Component                                                  US$ million  US$ million
A. Expansion of Coverage and Equity
  A.1 PRONADE                                                 18.20          21.37           117
  A. 2 Program de la Niña                                      0.80          0.61             77
  A.3 Afternoon Shifts                                         3.40          3.15             93
  A.4 Rehabilitations of Hurricane Mitch                       0.00          5.97
B. Improvement of Efficiency and Quality
  B.1 Curriculum Development                                   3.30          2.53             77
  B. 2 Bilingual Education                                     0.40          0.31             77
  B. 3 Multi-grade Schooling in Rural Guatemala                0.40          0.31             77
  B. 4.Fund for Innovations to Support Educational Quality     3.50          0.33             10
  B. 5 National Assessment System - NAS                        1.90          2.47             13
C. Institutional Strengthening
C.1 Support ISES to train COEDUCAS                             5.80          0.55             10
C.2 Strengthening MINECUD (planning, human resources)          1.00          0.17             17
C.3 Strengthening 22 Departmental Directories                  2.20          3.93            179
C.4 Training MINEDUC & COEDUCAS                                2.00          1.53             77
C.5 Development and Improvement of MIS                         2.00          1.53             77
C.6 Design and Implement a System of Evaluation                 .50          0.89            179
IV. Project Administration                                     1.40          1.13             81


 Total Cost                                                 46.80        46.80                100




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB              2      N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00        5.97         0.00           5.97
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.38)       (0.00)         (5.38)
2. Goods                           1.55             0.00        0.30         0.00           1.85
                                   (1.13)          (0.00)      (0.27)       (0.00)         (1.40)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        6.75         0.00           6.75
Consultants' services and          (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.75)       (0.00)         (6.75)
PCU fixed-term cons.
4. Training                        0.00             0.00        4.38         0.00           4.38
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (4.38)       (0.00)         (4.38)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00       27.46         0.00          27.46
(Info. Campaigns,                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (14.77)      (0.00)         (14.77)
Educational Innovations



                                                 - 34 -

    Fund, Teachers' Honoraria,
    Operating Costs
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.34             0.00              0.34
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.32)            (0.00)           (0.32)
       Total                                1.55               0.00             45.20             0.00             46.75
                                           (1.13)             (0.00)           (31.87)            (0.00)           (33.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
         Category                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Civil Works                  1.10         0.40                     5.40         0.60                  490.9    150.0
2. Goods                        4.80         1.20                     1.30         0.20                  27.1      16.7
3. Consultant Services          8.90         0.00                     6.30         0.00                  70.8      0.0
4. Training                     2.70         0.00                     4.80         0.00                  177.8     0.0
5. Miscellaneous
a. Information Campaign         0.70         0.00                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
b. Fund for Education           2.80         0.70                     0.30         0.00                  10.7      0.0
Innovations
c. PRONADE teachers'           11.00        10.60                    13.50         11.60                 122.7    109.4
salaries
d. Operating Costs and          1.00         0.90                     1.40         1.40                  140.0    155.6
PCU salaries
TOTAL                          33.00        13.80                    33.00         13.80                 100.0    100.0




                                                           - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A.




                                      - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/11/1996                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1).


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1/27/1997                 9    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVMT SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1);
                                             ASSESSMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1).
              4/7/1997                  5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANTS (2); LAWYER
                                             (1); RES.REP. (1).

 Supervision
              06/20/1998                5    TASK MANAGER.                    S               S
                                             EDUCATOR (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1);
                                             FINANCE (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1).
              12/11/1998                9    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEVMT
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1);
                                             ASSESSMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1).
              3/10/1999                 1    ARCHITECT (1)                    S               S
              06/11/1999                6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL DEVLP
                                             (1); OPERATIONS (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1).
              12/17/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             MIS SPECIALIST.
              07/08/2000                5    TTL. EDUCATION                   S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 37 -

                                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                            (1); COMMUNITY
                                                            PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1);
                                                            COUNTRY SECTOR LEADER
                                                            (1).
                 02/22/2001                            5    MISSION LEADER (1);                             S                  S
                                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                            OPERATIONS (1);
                                                            COMMUNITY
                                                            PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1);
                                                            MIS SPECIALIST (1).
                 9/21/2001                             3    TTL - EDUCATION                                 S                  S
                                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                            (1).
                 4/22/2002                             4    TTL - EDUC SPECIALIST (1);                      S                  S
                                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                            INSTITUTIONAL DEV SPEC.
                                                            (1); MIS SPECIALIST (1).
                 10/11/2002                            4    TTL - EDUC SPECIALIST (1);                      S                  S
                                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                            FMS (1); MIS SPECIALIST (1).
                 2/13/2003                             5    TTL - EDUC SPECIALIST (1);                      S                  S
                                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                            MIS SPECIALIST (1);
                                                            COMMUNITY DEV. SPEC. (1);
                                                            ARCHITECT (1).

 ICR
                 04/25/2003                                  MISSION LEADER (1);
                                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                                             (1).




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                              254,519
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                   n/a                                   n/a
  Supervision                                             72                              221,187
  ICR                                                       5                              14,252
  Total                                                   77                              489,958
This table is based on the information currently in SAP. The figures for staff weeks for identification/preparation and part of
supervision are only estimated. No data is available for appraisal/negotiation. For data before FY98, the information system
provides total amounts, without disagregating by number staff weeks and project cycle stage.




                                                             - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Colbert de Arboleda y Mora, Julia. Evaluación del Programa de Profesionalización "Inmersión en la
    Metodología Activa a Docentes en Servicio en Escuelas Rurales Multigrado Sujetos al Proyecto".
    Agosto, 2002.
2.  Lizarralde y Lara, CPA. Dictámenes de los Auditores Independientes. Años terminados en diciembre
    1998, 1999, 2000, 2001.
3.  Ministerio de Educación. Acuerdo Ministerial de fecha 16 de diciembre de 1997 que creó el Comité
    Ejecutivo del Proyecto.
4.  Ministerio de Educación. Manual de Operaciones. 1998.
5.  Ministerio de Educación. Memoria Técnica del Proceso de Fortalecimiento y Expansión de la
    Metodología Activa en Escuelas Rurales Multigrado. Septiembre 2002.
6.  Ministerio de Educación. Anuario Estadístico de la Educación 2,000. Unidad de Informática (sin
    fecha de edición).
7.  Ministerio de Educación. Informe de Avance Enero-Diciembre 1999 del Proyecto Reforma a la
    Educación Básica.
8.  Ministerio de Educación. Informe de Avance Semestral Enero-Junio 2000 del Proyecto Reforma a la
    Educación Básica.
9.  Ministerio de Educación. Informe Semestral de Progreso Julio-Diciembre 2000 del Proyecto Reforma
    a la Educación Básica.
10. Ministerio de Educación. Informe de Avance Semestral Revisado Enero-Junio 2001 del Proyecto
    Reforma a la Educación Básica.
11. Ministerio de Educación. Informe de Avance Semestral Julio-Diciembre 2001 del Proyecto Reforma
    a la Educación Básica.
12. Ministerio de Educación. Informe de Avance Semestral Enero-Junio 2002 del Proyecto Reforma a la
    Educación Básica.
13. Ministerio de Educación. Informe de Avance Semestral Julio-Diciembre 2002 del Proyecto Reforma a
    la Educación Básica.
14. Ministerio de Educación. Contrato para la Incorporación de la Informática Educativa en Aulas de
    Escuelas Primarias. 2001.
15. Ministerio de Educación. Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos de Reforma a la Educación Básica.
    Informe Final y Evaluación del Segundo Proyecto de Educación Básica. Mayo, 1999.
16. Ministerio de Educación. Diversos convenios suscritos por el Ministerio para el desarrollo de
    innovaciones educativas (01-98, 01-99, 02-99, 03-99, 08-99, 14-99.
17. Ministerio de Educación/ Banco Mundial. Ayudas Memoria de las misiones de supervisión y
    seguimiento. Varios documentos: 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002.
18. Universidad del Valle de Guatemala. Contrato de Servicios de Consultoría No. 001-2000. Programa
    Nacional del Rendimiento Escolar (PRONERE). Enero 2000.
19. Universidad del Valle de Guatemala. Informe al Ministerio de Educación de Guatemala sobre el
    Programa Nacional de Evaluación del Rendimiento Escolar. Junio 1998.
20. Universidad Rafael Landívar. Informe Final de la Evaluación del Programa de Lectoescritura en
    Idioma Maya como L1. Septiembre 2002.
21. World Bank. Amendment to the Loan Agreement. Basic Education Reform Project. December 17,
    1998.
22. World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in an Amount of US$ 33.0 million to
    Guatemala For a Basic Education Reform Project. April 30, 1997.




                                                 - 41 -

- 42 -

