Report No. PIC703
Project Name                     Guatemala-Basic Education III (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       GTPA7223
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education (MINEDUC)
Date of Initial PID              December 1993
Date this PID Prepared           February 1997
Tentative Appraisal Date         March 1997
Tentative Board Date             May 1997
1.      Background. Guatemala is the most culturally and socially
diverse country in Central America. About half of its eight million
people are descendants of the Maya-Quiche civilizations, with
limited assimilation into the socio-economic mainstream. It has
been estimated that 90% of the indigenous groups live below the
poverty line. Economic and social integration has been difficult
due to the variety of languages spoken (23 different Indian
languages). Some 40% of all Guatemalan children enter school with
no knowledge of Spanish, yet the majority of teachers have not
received training in bilingual education teaching methods, and
neither teachers nor materials are sufficient to provide basic
education in essentially oral indigenous languages. In addition,
the indigenous population lives in mostly rural areas and has borne
the brunt of the internal conflict. The Peace Accords signed in
December 1996 strongly emphasize the positive value of the
country's diversity and stress education as an essential strategy
for achieving equity and national unity. Education is and will
continue to be a national priority.
2.      Selected Education Sector Issues. Low coverage, poor quality,
weak institutional capacity, and insufficient levels of financing
are key issues in the Guatemalan education sector. Within the
overall context of these issues, the basic education strategy of
the Government focuses on universal coverage for the first three
grades and pays particular attention to bilingual education and
targeting for gender equity, indigenous populations and those
groups particularly affected by decades of conflict.
3.      The critical issues regarding coverage are: (a) the low
levels of literacy (53%), especially among the indigenous
population (40%); (b) low completion rates, with an average of only
4.5 years of schooling even among the ladino population; (c) low
enrollment rates, with only (net) 68% of primary level students
enrolled; and (d) the acute problem of female enrollment (64.5% for
girls as compared to 71.5% for boys), especially among the
indigenous population where three fourths of indigenous females
have no education.
4.      In terms of quality, the primordial problems of repetition



(15.5%) and drop-outs in the primary education sector merit
particular attention. Compounding these problems, the proportion of
unitary schools (40%) in rural areas is very high, yet teachers
have received virtually no training in multigrade teaching methods.
These schools serve precisely the (indigenous) population that is
targeted by the Government strategy. Bilingual education is also
needed for the approximately 40% of Guatemalan students who begin
their schooling without any knowledge of Spanish. At this time,
only some 8% of the nation's pre-primary and primary schools offer
bilingual programs.
5.      MINEDUC's institutional and financial capacity to respond to
these problems is very weak. The ministry is overly centralized and
inefficient; there is limited local participation in the
administration of schools; and government spending on education is
low (1.4% of GDP in 1994). In addition, budget and expenditure
functions for education are controlled by the Ministry of Finance,
and the financial management system does not permit adequate
linkages between educational planning and implementation functions.
6.      Project Rationale. In their effort to respond to demands of
an open global economy, the Government of Guatemala has proposed a
strategy for improving human capital based upon the expansion of
the skill level of the labor force. Education has been targeted as
the key mechanism to accomplish this strategy and is evident in the
Government's commitment to increasing allocations to the sector
during the next four years. Basic education has been shown to be
the most effective means for improving the human capital base,
particularly in the face of Guatemala's high rate of illiteracy
(459 nationwide and more than 60% among the indigenous population).
In addition, the recently signed Peace Accords mandate specific
goals, including universal coverage for the first three years of
school, a focus on gender equity, bilingual education,
decentralization as a means for encouraging greater community
participation, and a geographic focus on those areas most affected
by the decades of internal conflict. The project will include these
key elements.
7.      Project Objectives. The main objective of the project is to
support the government's national education reform program.
Emphasis is given to increasing coverage, improving quality and
decentralizing education services to involve Ministry personnel at
the departmental and local levels and encourage wider community
participation. Specifically, the project seeks to: (a) support
coverage and equity by improving access through increased pre-
primary and primary school enrollment in rural areas in the poorest
departments; and targeted programs to encourage increased
enrollment of girls, especially indigenous girls; (b) improve
efficiency and quality at the pre-primary and primary education
levels, especially for rural schools, through the provision of
educational materials, training, monitoring and assessment of
student achievement; and (c) restructure the organization and
management of MINEDUC to strengthen local level service capacity to
ensure greater community involvement in the organization and
management of schools; reorient and streamline central government
- 2-



administration to focus on normative and policy-making functions;
and create and strengthen roles of intermediate levels of
government (departments) as primarily support functions.
8.      Project Description. (a) Coverage and equity: (i) support
expansion of the community-based school management program PRONADE
(National Community-Managed Program for Educational Development).
All new schools in rural areas will follow the PRONADE model; (ii)
offer afternoon shifts in order to expand access; (iii) expand the
Eduquemos a la Nina Program to encourage increased enrollment of
girls; (b) Efficiency and quality: (i) train teachers and
administrators to implement pedagogical programs such as multigrade
(NEU) and bilingual education (PRONEBI); (ii) provide pedagogic
materials and school furniture to target schools; (iii) promote
education initiatives through creation of a Fund for Innovations
and Interventions to Support Educational Quality; (iv) design,
develop and implement a National Assessment System (NAS) and create
a contracted system of performance evaluation for administrative
system; (v) design, develop and implement a performance evaluation
system for assessing management practices; (c) Organization and
management: (i) support Educational Services Institutions (ISEs)
which will form and train parent-school councils (COEDUCAs) to
strengthen local school organization and management; (ii)
reorganize MINEDUC to strengthen the key administrative systems
(planning, financial management, human resources, and acquisition)
to enable expansion of coverage, quality and community
participation; (iii) strengthen operation of 22 departmental
directorates of education, including facilities and equipment; (iv)
train ministry personnel and relevant stakeholders from civil
society (e.g. consultative committee) in the key administrative
systems and organizational development and management; (v)
strengthen and develop an improved MIS (training, software and
equipment), including a performance evaluation system.
9.      Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost has been
estimated at US$131.2 million, to be financed with an IBRD loan of
$US 33.0 million. The balance will be covered by Guatemalan
Government counterpart funds, a loan from IDB, and grant funds from
KfW, European Union, USAID, GTZ, Holland, and Belgium.
10.     Expected Benefits. The economic returns to primary education
in Guatemala are high. The overall rate of return for an additional
year of education has been estimated at 15 percent. Other benefits
would include:
--Direct and immediate response to the Peace Accords recently
signed by the Government and the UNRG, and to the needs of the
poorest, mostly indigenous population (ZONAPAZ);
--Increased enrollment, with an estimated increase in new student
enrollment of 12 percent per year;
--Increased equity of educational opportunity for the
disadvantaged (mainly girls and indigenous) population. Increasing
the number of females enrolled in the education system has
significant benefits in terms of reducing fertility rates and
increasing child health and nutrition;
--Reduced illiteracy due to greater participation in primary
-3 -



school and improved primary education completion rates;
--Increased internal efficiency of primary education, (lower
repetition and drop-out rates) resulting in resource savings that
would contribute to system expansion and improvements;
--Improved efficiency of management and operation of the education
system at the central and local levels, facilitating further
investment in education. The Project would generate estimated
savings and economic benefits of US$43.4 million per year once
efficiency-enhancing programs are fully operational; and
--Improved human capital and a more competitive skilled labor
force as a result of an enhanced education system.
11.     Project Implementation. The Ministry of Education (MINEDUC)
will have overall responsibility for project implementation. A
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will coordinate day-to-day
activities of the project under the technical guidance of the Vice
Minister of Education. Operational procedures for procurement,
disbursements, auditing and accounting will be consistent with
those used under the ongoing Basic Education II Project. Project
oversight will be assured through the creation of a Project
Management Committee, comprised of the Viceminister of Education,
the Project Coordinator, the Director of the International
Relations Office, the General Director of Basic Education, and two
Education Directorates representing departments where the project
is implemented. In addition, the Minister has created a Committee
on Modernization at a high policy level as an oversight mechanism
to assure coordination of policy objectives and all project-related
activities
12.     Sustainability. Education expenditures are approximately 13
percent of public expenditures. It is clear that improvements in
quality and access in the coming years must derive primarily from
efficiency gains and better use of resources. Improvement of sector
efficiency through bilingual and multigrade education is a key
focus of the project. In addition, the enhancement of MINEDUC's
capacity to plan, manage and evaluate education at the central,
departmental and local levels is key to the success of the
Government's reform efforts. Several recent initiatives by the
Government have improved the institutional environment for success.
(1) The high level of commitment on the part of the Minister and
Vice Minister of Education and their respective policy and
technical staff add an important ingredient to the probability of
institutional sustainability. However, the depth of institutional
commitment remains fragile and is conditioned by the continued
presence of current political and technical leadership in MINEDUC.
(2) The financial and administrative commitment to strengthen
PRONADE's mandate provides for greater participation of
beneficiaries of educational reform in the form of community-based
management of schools. Community participation will help ensure
sustainability of the improved quality of education and maintenance
of schools through parental presence as well as increased demand
for education services. Informed demand for enhanced service
delivery will serve as a catalyst for institution building in the
education sector. (3) An Acuerdo Gubernativo creating
departmentalization and refining of roles and functions at each
- 4 -



level of government will improve the operational and policy-making
efficiency of the education sector.
13.     Lessons Learned. Collaboration among institutions: Success of
the project depends on the degree of collaboration among the
executing departments within the Ministry of Education. Delays in
past projects can be attributed to the lack of coordination among
the groups involved and their inability to work together. This is
partly due to continual staffing changes at all levels and
inefficient use of funds and materials. Consistent efforts have
been made to include representatives from executing departments in
order to build consensus and open lines of communication. In
addition, the project has been designed to minimize the
compartmentalization of funding and resources for individual
programs.
14.     Flexible, simple design:. Successful projects have been
characterized by flexibility in implementation, and simplicity and
clarity in design. The low institutional capacity and delicate
political climate in Guatemala should deter overly ambitious and
unrealistic goals. Project components should be limited and well-
focused, and the objectives of each component should be as
independent and measurable as possible, with explicit timetables
for key actions. MINEDUC officials have been fully involved in
defining the scope and content of the project, and ensuring the
objectives and corresponding tasks are well defined and
implementation is feasible.
15.     Counterpart Financing as Indication of Government Commitment:
The lack of required counterpart financing has been a serious issue
in the Guatemalan context. Overall counterpart funding levels and
mechanisms to ensure appropriate allocations on a timely basis have
been agreed upon with the Government of Guatemala.
16.     Institutional Capacity and Government Ownership: Most Bank
projects in the education sector in Guatemala have suffered from
implementation difficulties. The current administration has
participated actively in the design and preparation of the project.
The recent ascendance of the Vice Minister (a seasoned education
specialist who has assisted in the design of this project) to the
position of Minister augers well for project implementation. A
Committee for Modernization also has been created at a high policy
level as a means to guide organizational change and institutional
modernization and to ensure that project goals and educational
policy are synchronized.
17.     Decentralization: The overly centralized structure of MINEDUC
has hindered the achievement of project objectives in the past. The
ongoing process of decentralization must be encouraged for
education coverage and quality to be improved in the rural areas.
Greater participation of local communities in educational
organization and delivery will be facilitated to encourage higher
enrollment and reduce the costs of school construction and
maintenance. Under the project, paramount value has been placed on
the strengthening of Departmental Directorates, PRONADE, ISEs and
- 5 -



COEDUCAs. In particular, expansion of decentralized service
delivery through the PRONADE administrative mechanism will enhance
both local participation and the timeliness of services.
18.     Educational Assessment Systems: To develop a country's
assessment of the quality of an education system it is necessary to
ensure adequate technical training and specialized staff, and to
assess realistically the technical capacity of the ministry to
conduct necessary research. The Government of Guatemala has
determined the importance of designing and implementing a national
assessment system.
19.     Environmental Aspects. The project does not present
environmental risks. Since it consists of institutional
development, education quality improvement and expansion of
programs, it would have limited impact on the environment. The
proposed project is rated "C" because it would enhance
environmental conservation practices through the introduction of
environmental themes in the primary school curricula and teacher
training programs.
20.     Poverty Category. The project places priority on the poorest
(rural) areas of the country and especially attends to the needs of
the indigenous population, 90t of whom live below the poverty line.
22.     Program Objective Category. The project aims to improve
access and quality of basic education with particular emphasis on
cultural and gender equity. It also encourages decentralization of
administrative and resource management and wider community
participation. It is therefore classified under the Poverty
Reduction and Human Resource Development category.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 6 -



