Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16534 GU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$ 33.0 MILLION
TO
GUATEMALA
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
April 30, 1997
Human and Social Development Group
Cental America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Quetzal
US$1.00 = 6.00 Quetzales (February 1997)
Fiscal Year                School Year
1 January - 31 December    1 February - 31 October
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEST         - Basic Education Strengthening (project funded by USAID from 1991-96 to support education
reform initiatives)
CAS          - Country Assistance Strategy
COEDUCA    - Parent-run School Committee (Comite Educativo de Autogestion Educativa)
DIGEBI       - General Directorate of Bilingual Education (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Bilingiie)
EU           - European Union
EDUCO        - Community-Managed Schools Program of El Salvador (Educaci6n con Participaci6n de la
Comunidad)
FIS          - Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social)
FONAPAZ    - National Fund for Peace (Fondo Nacional para la Paz)
FSDC         - Social Fund for Community Development (Fondo Social para Desarrollo Comunitario)
GOG          - Government of Guatemala
IDB          - Inter-American Development Bank
ISEs         - Institutions that specialize in providing Education Services (Instituciones Especializadas en dar
Servicios Educativos)
MFP          - Ministry of Public Finance
MINEDUC    - Ministry of Education
MIS          - Management Information System
PCU          - Project Coordinating Unit
PLADES       - Social Development Action Plan (Plan de Accion de Desarrollo Social)
PRONADE    - National Community-managed Program for Educational Development (Programa Nacional de
Autogestion para el Desarrollo Educativo)
PRONEBI    - National Bilingual Education Program (Programa Nacional de Educaci6n Bilingrie)
SIMAC        - Curricular Improvement System (Sistema de Mejoramiento de la Adecuacion Curricular)
UNDP         - United Nations Development Program
URNG         - Uni6n Revolucionaria Nacional de Guatemala
ZONAPAZ    - Geographic area most affected by internal conflict before the December 1996 Peace Accords, including
the Departments of Solola, Totonicapan, Peten, El Quiche, Huehuetenango, San Marcos,
Chimaltenango, Alta Verapaz and Baja Verapaz
Vice President     S. Javed Burki
Country Director    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Task Manager       Carlos Rojas



GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................                                             2
1.   PROJEC         T DEVELOPMENT OBWECrIVES .............................................                             2
2.    PROJECT COMPONENTS ..............................................2
3.   BENEFITS         AND  TARGET POPULATION .............................................                             3
4.   INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ............................................. 3
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE .............................................                                               4
5.    CAS  OBJEC TIVE(S) SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .........................................................,           4
6. MA             N   SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY.                                                           5
7.    SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES .......5........    .       . ......          5
8.   PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .              ........................................................  6
9.   MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES                        .7
10.  LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ............................................. , . , .,        8
11.  INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ............................................                    10
12. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT .10
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS .........................................                                        11
13.  ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT .....             .................                                                           11
14.  FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT.11
15. TECHNICALASSESSMENT.11
16.  INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT.11
17.   SOCIAL ASSESSMENT.11
18. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .12
19.  PARTICIPATORY APPROACH.12
20. SUSTAINABILITY .1
21.   CRITICAL RISKS.13
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ..............................................                                          14
23.  EFFE      CTIVE NESS CONDITIONS ..............................................                                   14
24. OTHER ............................................... 14
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE  WITH BANK POLICIES .............................................. 14
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY .............................................. 15
ANNEX 2: PROJECT COMPONENTS .............................................. 21
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ............................                                                         28
ANNEX 4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ............................ 29
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY ............................40
ANNEX 6: PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................................. 44
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE .............................................. 50
ANNEX 8:  DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FiLE .............................................. 5 1
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS/CREDITS .............................................. 52
ANNEX 10: GUATEMALA AT A GLANCE ............................................... 53






INTERNAToNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Central America Country Department
Project Appraisal Document
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Date: April 30, 1997                                                     1   Draft        X  Final
Task Manager: Carlos Rojas                            Country Manager: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Project ID: GT-PE-7223                                Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: SIL                               PTI:       (XI Ycs             (I No
Project Financing Data               IX I Loan       f I  Credit     I ] Guarantee    I I  Other ISpecify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount US$m: 33.0
Proposed Terms:                         [     Multicurrency     [XI Single currency
Grace period (years): 3           [     Standard Variable  [XI Fixed           I I    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: %
Financing plan (US$m) (see Block 2, no. 9]fbr a description of related projects financed by olher agencies and donors):
Source                                  Local                Foreign           Total
Government                                                      13.8                      -            13.8
IBRD/IDA                                                        27.3                    5.7            33.0
TOTAL                  41.1                    5.7            46.8
Borrower: Government of Guatemala
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: Ministry of Education
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1998        1999     2000    2001          2002
Annual           5           6        10       7            5
Cumulative           5          l l      21       28           33
Expected effectiveness date: January 1, 1998                      Closing date: June 30, 2003



2
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
The Peace Accords signed on December 29, 1996 by the Government of Guatemala (GOG) and the URNG emphasize
education and training as "essential for a strategy of equity and national unity". In response, the Ministry of Education
(MINEDUC) has worked with the World Bank and other donors to develop a comprehensive education reform program to
improve coverage and quality of education for the poor and indigenous populations. Given Guatemala's high illiteracy rate
(45% nationwide and more than 60% among the indigenous population), the reform program centers on the development of
basic education (preschool and grades 1-6). To support the program, the Government is committed both to improving its
performance in raising fiscal revenues, and allocating a larger share of these revenues to basic education, especially in rural
and urban marginal areas.
The specific goals of the education reform program include universal coverage for the first three years of school; a focus on
gender equity, bilingual education and decentralization of education administration to encourage greater community
participation; and geographic focus on those areas most affected by decades of internal conflict (ZONAPAZ). The project
described below would be financed by the Bank and is an integral part of the reform program, for which the Government is
also seeking assistance from other donors. The proposed project seeks to:
a. Raise coverage and equity through increased pre-primary and primary school enrollment in rural areas in the
poorest departments with special emphasis on reaching indigenous groups and girls. This objective will be
achieved through the expansion and consolidation of PRONADE (National Community-Managed Program for
Educational Development), an administrative and financing mechanism to support community management of
schools in rural areas, and by offering afternoon shifts in existing schools;
b. Improve efficiency and quality of rural basic education, by reducing drop-out and repetition rates and
improving student academic achievement. This objective will be achieved mainly by supporting bilingual and
multigrade teaching methodologies.
c. Strengthen the organization and management of MINEDUC to perform normative and policy-making
fuinctions at the central level, and support functions at the intermediate and local levels, with community
involvement in the organization and day-to-day management of schools.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
% of
Component                                 Category     Cost Incl.   Total
Contingencies
(US$M)
Coverage and equity:                                                                    22.4         48
*  Expand the PRONADE community-based school management program                         18.2         39
*  Offer afternoon shifts in order to expand access                                      3.4          7
*  Expand the "Programa de la Ninia" to increase enrollment of girls                     0.8          2
Efficiency and quality:                                                                  9.5         20
*  Train teachers and adrninistrators to implement multigrade and bilingual              0.8          2
education programs
*  Develop and provide pedagogic materials and strengthen MINEDUC's
curriculum department, SIMAC                                                          3.3         7
*  Promote pilot initiatives in basic education through creation of a Fund for
Innovations to Support Educational Quality                                            3.5         7
*  Design and implement a National Assessment System (NAS) for basic
education;                                                                            1.9         4



3
*  Organization and management: Institution building/physical                            13.5         29
.  Support Educational Services Institutions (ISEs) which will form and train             5.8         13
parent-school councils (COEDUCAS) to manage rural schools
.  Strengthen MINEDUC (planning, financial management, human resources, and                            2
acquisition)                                                                           1.0
*  Strengthen 22 departmental directorates of education, including                                     5
construction/rehabilitation of facilities and provision of equipment                   2.2
.  Train MINEDUC personnel and COEDUCAS in the new administrative                                      4
systems and organizational development and management                                  2.0
.  Develop an improved MIS (training, software and equipment)
.  Design and implement a performance evaluation system to assess MINEDUC                 2.0          1
management practices.                                                                  0.5
Project Coordination                                                                      1.4          3
Total      46.8      100.0
The Bank will fund the above project through a loan of US$33.0 million, covering approximately 70 % of total costs. Of
this, about 17% will finance foreign expenditures and 83% local expenditures. Taxes constitute about 3% of the total cost.
The Government is currently negotiating additional support for the education reform program with other donors, including
KfW, USAID, GTZ, IDB and the European Union, to complement the components of the project financed by the Bank.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
T he economic returns to primary education in Guatemala are high. The overall rate of return for an additional year of
education has been estimated at 15 percent. Other benefits would include:
*  Contribute to sustaining peace through direct and immediate response to the Peace Accords recently signed by the
GOG and the URNG;
•  Increased enrollment by about 12% annually;
.  Increased equity of educational opportunity for the disadvantaged (mainly girls and indigenous) population. Increasing
the number of females who enroll and remain in the educ-ation system has additional benefits in terms of reducing
fertility rates and increasing child health and nutrition;
.  Reduced illiteracy due to greater primary school participation and education completion rates;
.  Increased internal efficiency of primary education (lower repetition and drop-out rates), resulting in resource savings
that would contribute to system expansion and improvements;
.  Improved efficiency of management and operation of the education system at the central and local levels, facilitating
further investment in education; and
.  Improved human capital and a more competitive skilled labor force as a result of an enhanced education system.
Target Population
The project will target the rural population (indigenous children and girls, in particular) in the poorest departments,
especially those nine comprising the ZONAPAZ region. The components and activities financed will be directed
specifically to: (a) policy makers and MINEDUC staff; (b) Departmental directorates of education and supervisors; (c)
institutions contracted to provide education services (ISEs) and local communities organized to administer and manage their
schools (COEDUCAS); and (d) teachers and students.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.
Implementation period: Five years (1998-2002)
Executing agency: Ministry of Education (MINEDUC)



4
Project coordination: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within MINEDUC is now responsible for the administration of
the ongoing Basic Education II Project. The PCU coordinates day-to-day activities of the project under the technical
guidance of the Vice-Minister of Education. It has gained considerable experience over the last three years and this fact,
combined with the very strong support it has received from the present Government, is reflected in significantly increased
loan disbursements since January 1996. The PCU is being strengthened to fulfill an expanded role as coordinator of the
overall basic education reform program which the Bank and other donors will support.
Project oversight: A Project Management Committee, to be established as a condition of loan effectiveness, will perform
project oversight functions. The Committee will be comprised of the Vice-minister of Education, the Project Coordinator,
the Director of the International Relations Office, the General Director of Basic Education, representatives of departmental
Education Directorates where the project is to be implemented, and two members representing civil society. In addition,
the Minister has created and will head a Committee on Modernization, which will ensure compatibility between the project
and other MINEDUC efforts, as well as coordination with GOG's broader modernization of the state program.
Counterpart Financing. GOG's revenue perfornance has traditionally been weak (currently only about 8% of GDP) and
therefore improving this position is critical for the success of the Peace Accords generally. The Government is committed
to achieving a 50% increase in revenues over the next several years. Within this, it has also committed to increase the share
of the budget allocated to education, and to give priority to adequate financing of the basic education reform prograrn which
the project will support. To facilitate execution of the key PRONADE component of the project, a trust fund
(FIDEICOMISO) has already been established in the Banco del Cafe to channel funds to all COEDUCA and ISE
activities. The Borrower will open a Revolving Fund in Quetzales which will be replenished on a quarterly basis. The trust
fund will be monitored and replenished on a quarterly basis.
Procurement. The decentralized design of the project, including the participation of ISEs in the delivery of training and
COEDUCAs in the procurement of small purchases and other local activities, will limit the need for MINEDUC to carry
out procurement at the central level, with the exception of some services and MIS equipment. The Operational Manual
(OM) will include acceptable procedures for execution and supervision of procurement actions; external annual and
periodic auditing will review of transfers by thefideicomiso or other financial intermediaries on an ex-post basis.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PCU currently has a system of accounting and financial
reporting which maintains records and accounts acceptable to the Bank. To respond to the needs of the new project, the
system will be strengthened, and the PCU will be staffed at all times with qualified financial and accounting professionals.
The project accounts will be audited annually by independent and qualified auditors, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Adequate financial management arrangements for the project
will be included in the OM. Separate accounts will be maintained and audited for PRONADE activities. The PCU will
submit to the Bank, no later than six months after the end of each year, a certified copy of the agreed audit reports. In
addition, concurrent quarterly audits will be carried out during the life of the project.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Project implementation will be closelv monitored by the PCU in collaboration
with the Departmental Directorates of Education. In addition, monitoring will be performed through: (a) monthly meetings
of the Project Management Committee; (b) World Bank supervision missions with intensive implementation support,
particularly in year one; (c) annual progress reviews of the annual project implementation plan to be conducted by the PCU
in coordination with the Bank; (d) a comprehensive mid-term review to be carried out no later than 30 months after loan
effectiveness; (e) beneficiary surveys and other assessment instruments; (f) an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to
be prepared jointly by the GOG and the World Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the project. A set of
monitoring indicators agreed with the GOG is reflected in Annex I of the Implementation Letter.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objectives supported by the project: CAS Report No. 1445 1-GU, Board Date May 5, 1995



5
The CAS described poverty alleviation and human resource development as the overriding objectives of the Bank's country
assistance program, with meaningful progress in reducing Guatemala's sharp social and economic segmentation being
essential for sustaining peace and accelerating development. The CAS indicated that the bulk of Bank-supported
investments would likely target areas where poverty and indigenous concentrations were greatest, and that many would
specifically focus on peace-related initiatives.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The principal sector issues are documented in Bank ESW conducted over the past few years, including: Guatemala An
Assessment of Poverty (Report No 12313-GU, 1995), Guatemala: Equity and Efficiency in Education (Report No 13304-
GU, 1995), Guatemala Building Peace with Rapid and Equitable Growth, Country Economic Memorandum (Report No
15352-GU, 1996), Guatemala Investing for Peace: Public Investment Review (Report No 16392-GU, 1997). These include
low coverage, poor quality, weak institutional capacity and insufficient levels of financing.
a. Low coverage is reflected in: (a) low literacy rates (53%), especially among the indigenous population (40%);
(b) low completion rates (4.5 years of schooling even among the ladino population); (c) low net enrollment rates of
primary school-aged children (68%); and (d) even lower female enrollment (64.5% for girls as compared to
71.5% for boys), especially among the indigenous population where three fourths of indigenous females have no
education.
b. Qualitv problems are reflected in high repetition (15.5% annually) and drop-outs from primary education. A
serious contributing cause is the fact that although 40% of rural schools are unitary, with one teacher catering to
the needs of students in different grades, teachers receive practically no training in multigrade instruction methods.
In addition, more than 40% of all Guatemalan students begin their schooling without any knowledge of Spanish,
yet only some 8% of the nation's schools offer bilingual programs. The majority of teachers have no training in
bilingual education teaching methods, and very few materials are prepared to provide basic education in essentially
oral indigenous languages. Finally, there is virtually no capacity for monitoring and evaluation of teacher quality
or student academic achievements.
c. MINEDUC's institutional and financial capacity to respond to these problems is weak. The Ministry is overly
centralized in Guatemala City and relatively inefficient; there is limited local participation in the administration of
schools; and government spending on education is low (1.8% of GDP in 1994).
Given the above issues, MINEDUC's basic education strategy focuses on providing universal coverage for the first three
grades, and pays particular attention to bilingual education and targeting for gender equity, indigenous populations and
those groups affected by decades of conflict; improved quality, intemal and external efficiency; institutional and
administrative modemization and decentralization, including greater participation of NGOs and the local community. This
education reform program refines the GOG's five-year (1996-2000) Development Action Plan (PLADES), and takes into
consideration the Constitutional mandates (Articles 74 and 76) which state that the population has the right and the
obligation to attend pre-primary, primary and basic education; that administration of the education system should be
decentralized; and that education in predominantly indigenous areas should be preferably bilingual. MINEDUC's strategy
document has been distributed to international financing agencies and donors. The achievement of its goals will require
substantial assistance and support from the intemational community. This project is a significant input to this strategy.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Coverage
*  Geographically, the project will target mainly rural areas of the poorest departments, especially those in ZONAPAZ;
•  Increased school enrollment is enhanced by parental and community involvement in local school management through
the PRONADE administrative model and the formation and stimulation of parent-run COEDUCAs;
.  The "Programa de la Nila" vill be expanded to heighten awareness of the importance of education for girls;
.  As a cost-effective mechanism for expansion of coverage, afternoon shifts will make more intensive use of existing
school facilities;



6
* New PRONADE schools will make use of existing facilities where possible, such as community centers, churches,
municipal buildings, etc. The prerequisite for the opening of a new school is the availability of students and teachers,
not infrastructure. The GOG will also promote some new school construction through the different Social Funds, but
the priority will be on providing teachers and educational materials to expand access to schooling, rather than on
buildings per se.
Quality
*  Improved quality of education will help to lower repetition and drop-out levels;
*  Educational materials will be supplied for all programs, and materials currently being used will be reviewed;
*  The project will expand bilingual education through teacher training, material provision, expansion of coverage, and
institutional strengthening of bilingual programs which have been deemed suitable for the communities to be served.
Throughout implementation, the Bank will have bilingual specialists to strengthen and enhance the quality of bilingual
education;
*  In-service training in bilingual and multigrade education will be provided for primary teachers on a targeted basis;
.  The project will provide training and technical assistance to design and implement a reliable and valid national
evaluation system for student achievement.
Organization and management
*  The project will strengthen the planning, organizational and managerial capacity of MINEDUC in coordination with the
GOG's Public Sector Modemization Program currently under preparation, of which MINEDUC will be a pilot;
*  A perfomiance evaluation system will be developed for MINEDUC to improve administrative productivity;
.  MINEDUC will be decentralized, and the departmental offices will be strengthened;
.  The PRONADE model and the development of ISEs will be supported as the principal mechanisms for the delivery and
expansion of school services in rural areas, irrespective of teaching methodology (multigrade, bilingual);
*  The project will contribute to improve efficiency in the use of educational resources.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Geographic coverage: During project preparation, consideration was given to the immediate inclusion of all 22
departments for refomn. However, it was decided instead to focus on expansion of PRONADE education interventions in
the nine departments of the ZONAPAZ, with priority given to the poorest areas. At the same time, basic administrative
improvements will be introduced on a phased basis in all 22 departments.
Teacher training: Support for traditional pre-service teacher training (in normal schools) was rejected for two reasons.
First, there is a current excess supply of teachers graduating from the 140 such schools in the country. Graduates typically
take seven to eight years to find their first teaching job, and have no opportunity to put their knowledge to practice in the
interim. Secondly, the quality of the existing normal school training is mediocre and warrants a separate comprehensive
review.
Bilingual Education: A majority of the Guatemalan population is indigenous, and their first language is not Spanish.
There is concern regarding the conservation of indigenous cultures, values and languages. In addition, the recently signed
Peace Accords call for the incorporation of these values in all development planning, and specifically mandate bilingual
education. The possibility of extending bilingual education to cover all 23 Mayan languages was considered, but for
reasons of feasibility, Government policy focuses on the four main Mayan languages spoken by 80% of indigenous
Guatemalans. Nevertheless, pilot projects for other languages may be supported under the Fund for Innovations.
Parent Administration of Schools: Although traditionally MINEDUC had administered most public schools in Guatemala
in a fairly centralized manner, it was decided that meeting GOG's objectives of rapidly increasing primary school
enrollments in accordance with targets of the Peace Accords, could only be achieved through a more decentralized approach
which would actively engage parents in the formation and management of the schools. Specifically, it was decided that the
project would finance an accelerated expansion of PRONADE to the poorest rural communities, as the administrative
instrument through which the appropriate education methodologies (multigrade, bilingual) will be implemented according to
local needs. This decision was based on the fact that PRONADE had proven successful on a pilot basis over the past few



7
years, and that similar community-based school administration strategies have proven successful in other countries,
especially the EDUCO program in neighboring El Salvador.
New Physical Construction versus Expanded Use of Existing Facilities: While one possibility for expanded coverage
might have been the financing of new facilities, it was decided that expanding access to primary education should not await
new school construction. Schools may function in any of a variety of current facilities, such as community centers,
churches, municipal buildings, etc. As an additional cost-effective measure to maximize the use of existing infrastructure
and material, the project will support the expansion and consolidation of afternoon shifts as an alternative for increasing
coverage in rural and marginal urban areas. At the same time, the GOG will pursue some new school construction through
the three principal social funds (FSDC, FONAPAZ, and FIS), which already have a total of approximately US$15 million
to invest in civil works for education for the next two years. Estimated construction needs for PRONADE schools
(construction of 2,800 new and 1,200 rehabilitated classrooms) over the next five years amount to US$40 million.
MINEDUC has created a committee to coordinate closely with the social funds to ensure that construction needs are
fulfilled in a timely fashion in the priority areas.
National Assessment System: The project team decided that rather than conducting an initial assessment of all students, it
would be more efficient to start the process with a sample of students from each department. During the initial stages, the
system should assess only mathematics and language at the third and sixth grade levels. In each department a stratified
random sample of schools and students will be selected to participate in the assessment process. As more experience is
gained, other subject areas, grade levels and more complete coverage will be included in the system.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector issue                            Project              Latest Form 590
Ratings
(Bank-financed
projects only)
IP      DO
Bank-      Low capacity for provision of textbooks;    First Basic Education Project:
financed:  insufficient student places to meet primary  Ln.2328-GU, US$18.5 million,
education demand in marginal areas of capital    signed in 1983 and closed in 1989.
and selected municipalities; need for improved
Government capacity for educational planning.
Low primary enrollment; need for teacher in-  Guatemala Basic Education II      S        S
service training courses, provision of textbooks,   Project: Ln. 3003-GU, US$18.8
bilingual materials, and school libraries.  million, effective, 1993, expected
closing date in early 1998.
Need to strengthen government-wide financial  Integrated Financial Management   S        S
management system, both at the central and  Loan: Ln. 3895-GU, signed in
departmental level.                         1995. US$9.4 million.
Poor revenue collection system; improvements  Tax Administration TAL: GT-PA-
will increase available resources for expanded  48654, under preparation and
government spending for education.          scheduled for Board in FY98.
Need for reform of major administrative systems   Public Sector Modernization TAL:
to improve service delivery. These efforts  GT-PA-7198, under preparation
specifically target and complement sectoral  and scheduled for Board in FY98.
reform in education.



8
Need to strengthen local communities to     Community Development Project
administer and manage the delivery of basic  (FONAPAZ), GT-PA-49386,
services.                                   under preparation and scheduled
for Board in FY98.
Scarce resources to improve health, nutrition and   Social Investment Fund I (SIF I),  S  S
basic education services among poor local   GT-PA-7220, effective 1994.
indigenous communities.                     Expected closing date December
1997. US$20 million.
Scarce resources to improve health, nutrition and   Social Investment Fund II (SIF II),
basic education services among poor local   GT-PA40198, under preparation
indigenous communities.                     and scheduled for Board in FY98.
Other Development Agencies
USAID      Insufficient teacher training and materials for  Basic Education Strengthening
multigrade and bilingual education programs; low  Project-BEST: 1993-1997, grant
and inequitable access to primary education; lack  funds of US$25.7 million; possible
of a management information system.         continued financing of US$2.0
million/year for next five years.
IDB        GOG has requested IDB to provide parallel   Support to the Education Reform.
financing of the basic educational reform   GU-0037. Scheduled for Board in
program.                                    1997, planned for implementation
in 1998.
KfW        Need for increased support for PRONADE      Support for expansion of
schools.                                    PRONADE schools: grant funds of
approximately US$12 million,
planned to start in 1998.
GTZ        Insufficient pre-service and in-service teacher  Bilingual Teacher Training: Grant
training for bilingual education.           funds of approximately
US$300,000, planned for 1998.
European   Poor quality of normal schools; lack of bilingual   Support for educational
Union      teacher training progratns; need for additional  development: grant funds of
resources for education reform in the       approximately US$26.0 million;
Departments of Alta and Baja Verapaz (main  planned to start in 1998
focus of this project).
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Intra-ministerial collaboration: Success of the project depends on the degree of collaboration among the executing
departments within MINEDUC. Delays in past projects can be attributed to the lack of coordination among the groups
involved, due partly to continual staffing changes at all levels and inefficient use of funds and materials. Consistent efforts
have been made to include representatives from executing departments in order to build consensus and open lines of
communication. In addition, the project has been designed to minimize the compartmentalization of funding and resources
for individual programs.
Flexible, simple design: Successful projects have been characterized by flexibility in implementation, and simple, clear
designs. The low institutional capacity and post-conflict political climate in Guatemala preclude overly ambitious goals.



9
Project components should be well focused, with independent, measurable objectives and explicit timetables for key actions
under each component. MINEDUC officials have been fully involved in defining the scope and content of the project, and
ensuring that the objectives and corresponding tasks are well defined and implementation is feasible. Adequate staffing of
the PCU will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Counterpartfinancing as indication of Government commitment: The lack of required counterpart financing had been a
serious issue in Guatemala under previous governments, although the perfornance of the current administration has been
significantly better and this is reflected in improved disbursement performance across the portfolio. With respect to the
new basic education project, overall counterpart funding levels and mechanisms to ensure appropriate allocations on a
timely basis, including the establishment of the FIDEICOMISO to finance PRONADE activities, have been agreed with the
GOG. Quarterly budgets for all counterpart funding requirements have been discussed and agreed upon with the GOG and
are reflected in the Implementation Letter.
Procurement and disbursement: The GOG's procurement and disbursement procedures have been lengthy and
cumbersome, resulting in delays under previous projects. The Bank has therefore been supporting special capacity building
in procurement and disbursement under the Basic Education 11 and SIF projects, partly through training in Bank
procedures, as well as by use of model contracts and letters of invitation for consultants, and contracting a purchasing agent
through the PCU. It is a condition of effectiveness that a procurement agent be contracted for the new basic education
project. Finally, a new procurement law on which the Bank has commented is in the Legislature; its passage would result in
smoother procedures.
Institutional capacity and Government ownership: Most Bank projects in the education sector in Guatemala have suffered
from implementation difficulties due to insufficient administrative capacity, limited government participation in project
design, frequent turnover in leadership, and weak project and policy management. The current administration has
participated actively in the design and preparation of the project. The recent ascendance of the Vice Minister (a seasoned
education specialist who has assisted in the design of this project) to the position of Minister augurs well for project
implementation. Further, it has been agreed that the existing PCU will be expanded to include experienced professionals in
the administration of other projects. Finally, a Committee for Modernization has been created at a high policy level as a
means to guide organizational change and institutional modernization and to ensure that project goals and educational policy
are synchronized.
Decentralization: The overly centralized structure of MINEDUC has hindered the achievement of project objectives under
earlier Bank-financed operations. To address this issue, the new project will support an acceleration of the ongoing process
of decentralization, with greater participation of local communities in educational organization and delivery through
PRONADE. Key project activities include strengthening of Departmental Directorates, education community associations.
PRONADE, ISEs and COEDUCAs.
Close supervision: Prior experience with Guatemalan education projects points to the need for close supervision and
support. Continuity and strengthening of current PCU staff is very important for smooth implementation and supervision of
the new project. Technical Assistance should be monitored closely by the GOG and the Bank to ensure that
recommendations are reviewed and acted upon. It is anticipated that during the first years of the project, technical
assistance and supervision will be required for the successful implementation of the different components of the program.
Implementation will begin with a launch seminar upon effectiveness and will include 18  staff weeks of supervision during
the first year and an average of 12 staff weeks for each year thereafter. A mid-term Governtment-Bank review will assess
progress in policy reforms and their implementation. In addition to Bank supervision, the PCU will be responsible for dailv
follow-up of project activities, monitoring and evaluation, and production of an annual report on project implementation.
The Committee for Modernization will provide policy oversight. The GOG and the Bank have agreed on a series of
indicators to facilitate continuous monitoring of the overall education reform program, and of the project itself (see Annex
1). It is expected that there will be close collaboration among donors, improving supervisory support.



10
National Assessment Systems: To develop an assessment system to monitor the quality of education, it is necessary to
ensure adequate technical training and specialized staff. MINEDUC, aware of its limitations to implement such a system,
has decided to contract a private university with sound experience in education measurement.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The current administration has demonstrated its full commitment to and interest in the project and to improving the
education system in the following ways:
* The former Minister of Education designated the former Vice-Minister of Education (who has since become the
Minister), a professional educator and education researcher, as head of the team to prepare the project proposal;
• The preparation team has been strengthened and MINEDUC has created a Committee for Modernization to ensure the
continued compatibility of project and policy goals. A Committee for Modernization of the Public Sector has been
established recently at the Presidential level and will serve as a counterpart for MINEDUC's Committee for
Modernization, and MINEDUC is one of the pilot ministries for the government-wide modernization program;
. Concrete actions have already been implemented by MINEDUC (i.e., the issuance of the Acuerdo Gubernativo
regarding decentralization (Decree 165-96) and a rigorous selection process for departmental directors of education;
selection of new teachers with participation of communities and local officials; and contracting of consultants for
specific studies);
* A trust fund (FIDEICOMISO) recently established as a mechanism to improve transferring of funds to local
communities (Decree 457-96);
• MINEDUC has strengthened UCONIME (Unidad de Coordinacion Nacional e Internacional del Ministerio de
Educaci6n) to facilitate communication with international agencies;
. The design and preparation of the education reform program has included extensive consultation with key actors
representing academic institutions, indigenous groups, the industrial sector, unions and religious groups. Some 18
public panels and forums have been held over the last year in several cities around the country to allow stakeholders and
interest groups to exchange ideas and express concerns regarding basic education reform (see "The Education Reform
in Guatemala and the Indigenous People Participation Plan " in the Project Files.);
*  Implementation of the Basic Education II project has been accelerated. During the last six months, approximately
US$5.3 million were disbursed;
Several important legislative initiatives have been taken since late 1996: the Law of Probity and the Law of Responsibilities
establishing accountability measures for public servants; the Procurement Law establishing revised rules for public sector
acquisitions; legislation designed to improve the GOG's fiscal performance by making tax evasion a criminal offense and
by establishing a new tax and customs administration body; and legislation that would give MINEDUC the authority to
grant legal personality to the parents' associations.
12. Value added of Bank support:
. Bank ESW has facilitated the identification of key poverty and education sector issues, contributing to the preparation
of the sector reform (See Block 2, Section 6).
* The Bank has been the lead donor working with GOG in the definition of the basic education reform program to
support implementation of the Peace Accords, and its involvement has encouraged participation of other donors and
helping to mobilize additional sources of financing;
* Bank support of institutional reform in the education sector will reinforce the GOG's efforts to modernize the State;
* Members of the Bank's Central American education team are contributing cross-country experience on design and
implementation of similar reform models, such as the El Salvador EDUCO program;
* The project benefits from and is reinforced by other non-sector loans and activities (see Section 9).



11
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: (IRR=28%)
The economic benefits are measured by the projected incremental earnings of primary school enrollees and graduates to be
produced by the project. The analysis measures the impact of expanded enrollment. However, the benefits deriving from
improved school quality (resulting in reduced repetition and drop-out rates and improved learning) and the improved
managerial capacity of the MINEDUC cannot be easily quantified. Therefore, the estimated project benefits represent the
lower bound. The economic costs include the direct project costs (both investment and incremental recurrent costs), direct
private costs (school-related costs incurred by households) and indirect opportunity costs of students' foregone earnings.
The project is economically feasible as indicated by the IRR of 28%. This is a conservative estimate of the economic rate of
return.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)
The fiscal burden of the project is manageable. The total project cost represents about half of the investments planned by the
GOG for the sector over the next years. This amount falls well within the GDP target of 2.4 percent for education agreed
under the Peace Accords. The project has a high share of incremental recurrent costs covering teacher salaries, training and
printing and distribution of textbooks. By the last year of implementation (2002), incremental recurrent costs of the project
would amount to 1.3 percent of public education expenditures. In the five year period following implementation, this
amount would represent an average of 1.3 percent, annually (see Annex 5, Table 5).
15. Technical Assessment
The project takes into consideration the context of the current educational system and goals of the GOG, and provides
appropriate technical responses in a simple and straightforward manner. The most salient issues of access, equity and
quality are addressed through project components in a technically sound fashion. Project preparation and work implemented
under the existing Basic Education II Project has benefited greatly from the incorporation of successful technical and
administrative practices, both within Guatemala (PRONADE and unitary schools) and the Latin American region at large
(e.g., EDUCO in El Salvador, Escuela Nueva in Colombia, National Assessment Systems, etc.). The bilingual programs in
use have been enhanced through inputs from national and international experts.
16. Institutional Assessment:
Executing agencies: MINEDUC has demonstrated commitment to taking the steps necessary to achieve the objectives of the
project. In addition, the project will assist MINEDUC in stre.igthening its organizational and managerial capacity. The
probability for success of the project has been strengthened by the current administration, which is giving priority to
improving the quality of basic education. In addition, recent initiatives for restructuring policy-making capacity at the
central level (e.g., Committee for Modernization) augment the institutional capability for management and decision making.
Similarly, recent actions by the executive branch (i.e., Acuerdo Gubernativo) and redefinition of the functions and roles of
the departmental Directorates of Education should strengthen decentralized administrative support systems. Finally,
MINEDUC's institutional reforms are to be carried out in coordination with the overall Public Sector Modernization
Program.
Project management: The PCU established for the Basic Education II (currently being implemented) will coordinate this
project. Project management should be stronger for the proposed project due to the accumulated experience of the PCU.
This unit has been supported by the current administration and has demonstrated the ability to implement the components of
Basic Education II, despite institutional limitations and bureaucratic regulations.
17. Social Assessment:
The GOG has placed high priority on its education reform program as a means for meeting the challenges of the Peace
Accords. This is both a positive factor and a risk. Continued societal commitment to the Peace Accords will provide added
impetus to the potential success of education reform and may guarantee improved social stability. This, in turn, will allow
for the reallocation of public expenditures to the social sectors. However, failure to maintain societal consensus as
expressed in the Peace Accords may hinder the sustainability of education reform, thereby undermining human capital



12
development. Targeting under the project for key groups (indigenous peoples, girls, rural and urban marginal areas) aims at
reinforcing socioeconomic reform and provides for improved social equity. Despite Government efforts to provide
education services, obstacles still exist to achieving goals. Perceived opportunity costs, especially for girls, direct economic
costs, and cultural traditions, particularly among indigenous groups, may limit willingness to take advantage of the
education services.
18. Environmental Assessment:     Environmental      [   A      [   B    [X ] C
Category
The proposed project is rated "C" because it would enhance environmental conservation practices through the introduction
of environmental themes in the primary school curricula and teacher training programs.
19. Participatory Approach:          Identification/Preparation    Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups    CON and COL: Teachers,           COL and CON         COL and CON
parents, supervisors
Intermediary NGOs                 COL                                   COL            COL
Academic institutions             CON and COL                           COL            COL
Local government                  CON and COL                           COL            COL and CON
Other donors                      IS, CON and COL: IDB, KfW,       COL and CON        COL and CON
UNICEF, GTZ, USAID, EU
Note: IS = information sharing, CON = consultation, and COL = collaboration
This project has maintained a participatory approach throughout. MINEDUC personnel at the central and departmental
levels have been closely involved in defining the components, and universities and academic institutions have participated in
the consultation process. The main indigenous groups have provided input on the needs of their communities, especially
concerning bilingual education. In addition, 18 widely attended public fora were held in 1996-97 to ensure open discussion
and full participation of key stakeholders.
20. Sustainability:
The financial and institutional sustainability of the project has been a matter of continuous discussion with national
authorities.
Financial sustainability: Per capita development expenditures in Guatemala are fairly low, across sectors, because of
GOG's traditionally weak revenue performance (currently only about 8% of GDP). Education expenditures, in turn, are
approximately 15 percent of the relatively low total public expenditures. Improvements in quality and access in the coming
years must derive both from efficiency gains and additional resources. Improving sector efficiency through bilingual and
multigrade education is a key focus of the project. The Government has committed publicly to increasing revenues by 1%
of GDP for the next four years, ie., a 50% increase over the present position, and there is expected to be a small "peace
dividend" following cessation of domestic hostilities in late 1996, all of which should increase the availability of budget
resources for the education sector. Incremental recurrent expenditures arising from the project will average less than 1.5
percent of projected annual public spending for education during and after the project; this has been reviewed very carefully
with the Ministry of Finance, which judges these expenditures to be absorbable. Assurances have been sought from the
GOG on the priority of the basic education reform program within the education budget, and on provision of agreed
counterpart funding during each year of project implementation.
Institutional sustainability: Improving MINEDUC's capacity to plan, manage and evaluate education at the central,
departmental and local levels is key to the success of the GOG's reform efforts. Several recent initiatives by the GOG have
improved the institutional environment for success. (a) The high level of commitment on the part of the Minister and Vice-
Minister of Education and their respective policy and technical staff add an important ingredient to the probability of
institutional sustainability. However, the depth of institutional commitment remains fragile and will be affected by the
continued presence of current leadership in MINEDUC. (b) The financial and administrative commitment to strengthen
PRONADE's mandate provides for greater participation of beneficiaries of educational reform in the form of community-
based management of schools. Community participation will help ensure sustainability of the improved quality of education



13
and maintenance of schools through parental presence as well as increased demand for education services. Informed
demand for enhanced service delivery will serve as a catalyst for institution building in the education sector. (3) The
Acuerdo Gubernativo creating departmentalization and refining of roles and functions at each level of government will
improve the operational and policy-making efficiency of the education sector. (4) The institutional reforms being initiated at
MINEDUC are fully complementary with the formulation and implementation of the GOG's overall Public Sector
Modernization Program, and the establishment of an Institutional Modernization Agreement (AMI) as designed in the
overall program is intended to occur within the first year of the project. Care has been taken throughout project preparation
to assure the compatibility of the sector and overall reform initiatives.
In addition, the project itself will support consolidation and expansion of the MIS in MINEDUC, a national assessment
system, and training of staff. All of these measures should contribute to improved institutional capacity and sustainability.
Finally, once teachers are familiar with multigrade and bilingual methodologies, this training will give them the necessary
tools to carry out the programs in their classrooms, thus increasing the probability of sustained effectiveness within schools.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                  Risk Rating                 Risk Minimization Measure
Allocation and distribution of financial  Moderate -   Government reforms in tax collection and integrated financial
resources and materials may not be    Substantial  management are intended to strengthen resource base and
timely.                                            ministerial control of budget. In addition, supervision of the
project should ensure proper allocation and timely distributions
of resources. The recent establishment of the
"FIDEICOMISO" for financing PRONADE activities, should
facilitate the timely flow of funds for this program.
Resources from other agencies and   Low-Moderate The Bank supports all of the components of the project.
donors may not materialize in a timely             Therefore, implementation would be affected in its magnitude
fashion.                                           (lower targets) but would take place nonetheless.
Appropriate education methodologies    Moderate   PRONADE schools will integrate appropriate education
may not be identified.                             methodologies (bilingual, etc.) at the local level.
Need for clear criteria for selection of  Low      MINEDUC will host several workshops to offer training in
projects/activities and participating              selection of best innovations to be financed and to jointly
institutions for the Fund for Innovations.         establish criteria with key stakeholders.
High level turnover and bureaucratic  Low-Moderate Assure transparency in information through training and
intransigence may reduce impact of                 appropriate incentives to Ministry personnel.
organizational changes.
Government reforms external to the     Moderate    During preparation close collaboration was maintained with the
sector, and especially those associated            Bank and GOG teams involved in the Public Sector
with the State Modernization Program,              Modernization program.
may not proceed at the pace planned.
The PRONADE school model may not         Low       The project provides for training of COEDUCA members and
receive sufficient parental support to             an extensive awareness campaign to promote the PRONADE
ensure community involvement in the                model.
management of schools.



14
Project components to outputs
Risk                  Risk Ratin,                Risk Minimization Measure
Personnel selected for training may not  Low      Careful selection criteria will be established for personnel, and
be sufficiently interested in education           a continuous training process will ensure continued interest.
reform.
MINEDUC staff and key stakeholders   Moderate -  Training will be provided and open discussion maintained to
may not reach consensus regarding the  Substantial  ensure participation in the reorganization of MINEDUC at all
reorganization process.                           levels.
Possible difficulties may occur in   Moderate -   Close supervision and assistance in identifying qualified
identifying and contracting technical  Substantial  candidates and development of appropriate incentives to
experts to work in department capitals.           encourage transfers to departments are necessary.
Insufficient number of qualified training  Low    Limited number of qualified ISEs. Efforts would need to be
institutions (ISEs) may delay the                 made to streamline the program with the available ISEs or look
implementation of the program.                    for strategies to create new ones to meet the demand.
Overall project risk rating        Moderate to    Risks are mitigated by close Bank and country policy dialogue
substantial.    on the peace process, education reform, and GOG public sector
reform initiatives which provide external (to sector) pressure
and support. Implementation of public sector reforms are
critical to education reforrn as well. Collaboration during
project preparation with MINEDUC and strengthening of the
PCU's capacity to implement project activities help to mitigate
potential risk.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions:
The GOG will approve a Project Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank.
The GOG will enter into a procurement agreement with an entity satisfactory to the Bank.
The GOG through MINEDUC will establish the Project Management Committee
The GOG through MINEDUC will contract the PCU personnel listed in Annex 3 of the Implementation Letter.
The GOG through MINEDUC will amend the existing Ministerial Resolution No. 977 to allow the PCU to continue
operating under the proposed project.
The GOG will establish a Revolving Fund in the Bank of Guatemala to be managed by MINEDUC.
24. Other:
Counterpart Funding. It was agreed during negotiations that the GOG will make available to MINEDUC each calendar
year of Project implementation the minimum amounts of counterpart funds set forth in the Implementation Letter.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting. MINEDUC will prepare and present to the Bank, no later than 30 days after the
conclusion of each calendar year, annual reports on implementation progress. MINEDUC jointly with the Bank will
conduct not later than thirty months after loan effectiveness, a mid-terTn review.
Disbursement Condition. No payment will be made against the Innovations Fund until the government has established the
Fund to finance Educational Innovations and the appropriate management agreement has been signed.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with al pplicable Bank policies
,h/ 6/ -
Task Manager: Carlos ojas                       Country Dire onna Dowsett-  irolo



15
Annex 1
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Project Design Summary
The Key Performance Indicators shown below for the CAS and Project Development Objectives correspond to the GOG's
overall education reform program (Section A). Specific performance indicators and targets for the Bank's Project are
outlined in the Project Outputs and Project Components sections of this annex (Section B).
The statistics for coverage and internal efficiency presented under the Key Performance Indicators column were obtained
from MINEDUC's most recent publication (Anuario Fsiadistico 1995) and serve as the baseline data against which
progress will be measured. However, it is expected that improvements in the quality of the MFNEDUC data will be made in
the course of project implementation. For selected indicators, annual targets will be monitored based on the end-term
targets shown below.
SECTION A
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions ard
Risks
CAS Objectives                                                                  (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Address long-term human   *Primary education         MINEDUC's statistics
capital needs through the  enrollment to increase from                          *Significant increase in
expansion and improved    68.2% to 85% by 2002                                  expenditure for primary
efficiency and Uistribution of  (GOG target)                                    education
primary education services,   *Universal coverage for first  MINEDUC's statistics,  *Peace Accords are
especially among rural and   thrce grades (GOG target)    PRONADE records       implemented, giving vital
indigenous populations                                                          support to indigenous groups
Project Development                                                             (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                      CAS Objective)
1. Increase coverage with    *Gross rural enrollment to    MlNEDUC's statistics,  *Full integration of
special attention io girls'    increase annually by 6%  PRONADE records, school   PRONADE with
enrollment and to the     * Girls' rural enrollment to  rosters                 MINEDUC line functions
indigenous populations    reach 48% by 2002 (current                            *Existence of sufficient
enrollment is 44.4%)                                 counterpart funding
2. Improve quality and    *Drop-out rates in rural   MINEDUC's statistics
efficiency at the primary  areas to be reduced from
education levels, especially   10.5% in 1995 to 5% in
for rural schools         2002
* Repetition rates to be
reduced from 17% in 1996
to 5% in 2002
* Significant increase in  National Assessmcnt System
mean achievement scores for  information
mathematics and language
tests by 2002
3. Improve capacity of    * Redefinition and         Project Monitoring Reports
MINEDUC to enhance        implementation of roles and
delivery of services      functions at each level by
[ ________________________ 2002



16
The following project indicators will be monitored during periodic supervision missions. Indicators of the project by year
are presented in Annex 1 of the Implementation Letter.
SECTION B
Project Outputs                                                                 (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
COVERAGE: Expansion of
the:
1.1. PRONADE school       *Approx. 1,666 teachers    MINEDUC's statistics,     Proper allocation and timely
model expanded to poor    contracted to work in new    PRONADE records         distribution of financial
rural communities in      PRONADE schools by                                   resources and materials
targeted departments      2000
* Approximately 25,000
new students per year in the
new schools. By year 2000,
75,000 new students
enrolled
1.2. Expansion of afternoon   * 1,000 afternoon shifts  MINEDUC's statistics,  Clear criteria established for
shift expanded to schools in  established by 2002   Departmental records, school  identification and selection of
rural and marginal urban  *Approximately 2,000      records                    afternoon shift schools
areas                     teachers hired for afternoon
classes by 2002
*Approximately 14,000
new students per year;
70,000 new students by
2002
EFFICIENCY and
QUALITY                   *Approx. 13,700 teachers   Departmental records,     Identification of appropriate
2.1. Training of teachers for  (PRONADE and other   PRONADE records, random   programs to meet local needs
targeted schools to meet  rural teachers) trained by    teacher interviews
local needs in rural areas  2002 in multigrade and
bilingual methodologies and
"Programa de la Nina"
issues
2.2. Provision of pedagogic
materials (notebooks, maps,  *Materials delivered to  Random site visits
school supplies for students  approx. 750,000 rural
in rural schools across the    students
country)
Results are considered in
2.3. Established national  *NAS established and staff  Project Monitoring Reports,   making education policy
assessment system (NAS) to  trained in new assessment   NAS                    decisions
monitor academic          methodologies by end of
achievement in math and   1998
language subjects         *Baseline data collected for
mathematics and language
achievement tests by 1998
*Two rounds of
measurements by 2002



17
*Fund created and initial                            Clear criteria defined to
2.4. Creation of a Fund for   projects selected by mid-    Project Monitoring Reports   select projects/activities and
Innovations to Support    1998                                                  participating institutions
Educational Quality to    *At least 5 innovations per
promote education initiatives  department selected and
at the local, dept. and central financed by 2000
levels
INSTITUTIONAL
MODERNIZATION             *22 departmental                                     *High level turnover and
3.1. Improved organization   directorates of education  Project Monitoring Reports,  bureaucratic intransigence
and management of         established and functioning  site visits, Departmental  may reduce impact of
MINEDUC at central and    and new administrative    records, interviews with    organizational changes
departmental levels and of    norms and procedures  Dept. Directors             * Reorganization at the
local schools to enhance  implemented by 2002                                  central level and
delivery of basic education    *MINEDUC personnel                               decentralization efforts are
services                  reclassified and assigned by                         contingent upon acceptance
2000                                                 of Modernization of the State
*Central government                                 laws by Congress
functioning as normative
and regulatory instance
with decentralized
execution and provision of
service delivery
*Institutional
Modernization Agreement   Institutional Modernization
approved in conjunction  Agreement with
with overall PSM program   MFP/MINEDUC
*Approx. 2,250 parents                               Parental support for
3.2. Greater local        actively involved in      MINEDUC's statistics,       PRONADE school model
community involvement in    COEDUCA activities by    PRONADE records, random
the organization and      2000                      interviews, site visits
management of schools
Project Components                                                             (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a detailed
description]
COVERAGE
1.1.1. Provide support for    *Awarencss campaigns and  Project Monitoring Reports
campaigns to promote      promotional materials
awareness of the PRONADE  distributed to schools and
program                   local communities before
the initiation of each
academic year
1.2.1. Identify and select  *Criteria established and at  Project Monitoring Reports,
schools in need of afternoon  least 200 schools selected   interviews with selection
shifts                    by 1998, and 200 schools   committee
each year thereafter



18
1.3.1. Expand the         *Training and curriculum    Project Monitoring Reports,
"Programa de la Niia"     materials revised and     curriculum review
developed by 1998
*Public awareness
campaign before initiation
of each new academic year
(1998-2002)
EFFICIENCY and
QUALITY
2.1.1. Design and deliver  * 8 workshops per year for  Project Monitoring Reports,   Sufficient interest from
courses to train key      central and department level PRONADE reports, class   personnel selected (teachers,
personnel at the central,  staff (approx. 240 staff  visits, curriculum review,  departmental officials and
departmental and local levels  trained per year)    random interviews with      others)
(including teachers) to   * 40 workshops per year    teachers and trainers
implement programs such as  for teachers in multigrade
multigrade and bilingual  and bilingual teaching
education                 methodologies (some 1,820
teachers trained per year)
*20 workshops per year for
teachers on "Programa de
la Nifia" aspects (some 910
teachers trained per year)
* Technical assistance
2.2.1. Strengthen the     contracted by 1998        Project Monitoring Reports,
curriculum department and    * Curriculum revisions  curriculum and material
assist in the process of  completed for mathematics  review
acquisition and distribution   and language by 1999
of materials for all      * Materials developed and
programs, for schools and    distributed to 3,000 rural
communities               schools by 2002
* Reliable and valid
2.3.1. Design, develop and   instruments for math and    Project Monitoring Reports,   Close collaboration between
implement the national    language achievement      NAS                         MINEDUC and the academic
assessment system (NAS)    produced and piloted by                             institution responsible for
end of first year of project                         implementing the NAS
implementation (1998)
*At least 2 rounds of math
and language tests applied   Project Monitoring Reports
to a sample of primary
students by 2002
Guidelines established for
functioning of Fund by   Project Monitoring Reports
2.4.1. Assist in financing  1997
and establishing the Fund for
Innovations
INSTITUTIONAL             *Manuals of new norms                                 Failure to build consensus
MODERNIZATION             and procedures designed   Departmental records,       among MINEDUC staff may
3.1.1. Assist in          and implemented           organigram of MINEDUC,   delay process



19-
reorganization at the central,  *3 seminars per year on  seminar material review,
departnental and local     organizational development, random interviews with
levels, and establishment of   strategic planning,  trainees
norms and procedures       budgeting and finance,
human resource
ma.nagement provided to
central personnel (some 90
staff trained per year)
*22 departmental                                     Coordination with social
directorates established and  Project Monitoring Reports,  funds
3.1.2. Identify sites,     functioning in new or     site visits
construct/rehabilitate and  rehabilitated physical plant
provide equipment for      by 2002
departmental directorates of
education                  *Manuals of new norms                                 Possible difficulties in
and procedures designed   Project Monitoring Reports,  identifying and contracting
3.1.3. Provide training in  and implemented          review of manuals          technical experts to work in
public sector management to  *2 seminars per year on                             department capitals
strengthen service delivery at organizational development,
decentralized levels      strategic planning,
budgeting and finance,
human resource
management provided to
each department (some 60
staff trained/year)
*Reliable and valid
3.1.4. Design, develop and    instruments designed and    Project Monitoring Reports,
implement the performance   piloted by end of first year  review of manuals
evaluation system          of the project
*Evaluation conducted
twice to a sample of
MINEDUC staff by 2002
*MIS and related
3.1.5. Provide technical   management systems        Project Monitoring Reports,
assistance and training to    implemented and integrated  review of annual action plans
expand the MIS             by 2002                   for MIS, periodic testing of
*2 workshops per year at    system
central level on use of MIS
*3 seminars in each
department on use of MIS
*ISEs identified for training                        Sufficient number of
3.2.1. Contract and assist    of COEDUCAs            Project Monitoring Reports,   qualified training institutions
ISEs in training and       *Criteria established for  PRONADE records, review   (ISEs)
formation of COEDUCAs    contracting services        of training materials
for the management of      *ISEs contracted and
schools                    functioning
*10 workshops per year
organized and delivered



20
* Materials produced and
distributed to ISEs
*750 COEDUCAs                                       Communities interested and
3.2.2. Establish          established by 2000      Project Monitoring Reports,   motivated
COEDUCAs in each new      * 45 workshops per year to  PRONADE records, review
PRONADE school and        be organized and delivered   of training materials
provide technical assistance   by ISEs to COEDUCAs
and materials             * Materials produced and
distributed to all new
COEDUCAS created each
year
*At least 1,800 assoc.
3.2.3. Establish and train  established per year (5,400  Project Monitoring Reports
education community       by 2000)
associations.             *Some 5,400 members
trained per year (16,200 by
2000)



21
Annex 2
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Project Components
Due to the important correlation between the Peace Accords and the GOG's Education Reform Program, as well as the
emphasis on education strategies to meet the needs of the indigenous population, it was deemed necessary to provide
additional information regarding these areas. To this effect, three brief summaries are included in the Project Files.
The first, "Education Reform Meets the Challenges of the Peace Accords", describes the government's education reform
program and the main ways in which it supports the Peace Accords, including: (a) improving access to education services,
especially for disadvantaged groups, (b) reforming educational curricula, teacher training and educational materials to
exclude traditional and gender stereotypes for girls and indigenous people and promote bilingual education, (c) promoting
decentralization and community participation in the provision of education services, (d) affirming and disseminating key
values and behaviors that are at the basis of democratic coexistence, respect of human rights, the cultural diversity of
Guatemala, and social and political participation, and (e) increasing public expenditures in education by 50 percent by the
year 2000 (compared to their 1994 level).
The second sunmmary, "The Education Reform in Guatemala and the Indigenous People Participation Plan," discusses
how the program responds to the Peace Accords with regards to indigenous education issues in each of its main components
(expansion of coverage, improvement of quality, and reorganization of management and increased community
participation). This summary also discusses the consultation process followed during design and preparation of the
program (including over 18 seminars and workshops with stakeholders throughout the country and a National Seminar of
Mayan Education for Peace (May-June 1996) in which 103 organizations representing indigenous concerns participated).
Finally, the summary describes additional ongoing participatory and consultative efforts such as the creation of the "Joint
Commission" (Comisi6n Paritaria) for education (mandated by the Peace Accords).
The third summary, "Bilingual Education in Guatemala," presents findings from the sector study, Guatemala: Equity and
Efficiency in Education (Report No. 13304-GU, 1995), which provides ample evidence for the support of bilingual education
programs in Guatemala. Additional information on this topic can be found in Project Component 1, "Bilingual Education," and in
Annex 4, "Cost Effectiveness Analysis."
The education reform program proposed by MINEDUC in response to the challenges of the Peace Accords, includes the
following components:
Project Component 1 - COVERAGE and EQUITY - US$22.4 million (total cost of component)
This component is comprised of three main strategies to increase coverage and access with equity. PRONADE reaches out
to rural communities, providing an administrative and financing mechanism to support community management of schools.
Eduquemos a la Niila is a nation-wide program to encourage greater participation of girls in formal schooling. Finally, the
expansion of the afternoon shifts maximizes current basic education facilities in rural and marginal urban areas and creates
opportunities for students in highly populated communities. School construction and rehabilitation will also take place
under the GOG's overall education reform program but have been delegated to the social funds (FIS, FONAPAZ and
FSDC). The following describes the three principal strategies of this component and outlines their goals. An extensive
description of PRONADE has been included, given the importance of its role in increasing coverage.
PRONADE - Programa Nacional de Autogesti6n para el Desarrollo Educativo
(National Community-Managed Program for Educational Development)
Mission Statement: PRONADE, an established MiNEDUC program, is responsible for expanding coverage and
improving basic education services in rural areas. It provides financial resources to organized communities to promote
the decentralized administration of education services, thereby strengthening community management of schools.



22
To carry out its mission, PRONADE supports the formation of formally legalized parent-run school committees
(COEDUCA - Comite Educativo de Autogestion Educativa). The Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) signs an agreement
with each COEDUCA, committing to provide economic resources through PRONADE.
In December 1996, a trust fund (fideicomiso) was established in the Banco del Cafe in Guatemala. Resources requested by
MINEDUC are given to the central Banco del Cafe in Guatemala City by the Ministry of Public Finance. The bank then
transfers funds to COEDUCA accounts in their regional bank offices. These resources are replenished every three months
and are available to the Board members of each COEDUCA to cover teacher contracts and support services such as
nutrition supplements (financed by the GOG), didactic materials for teachers, school supplies, teaching materials and
textbooks for students.
Institutions that specialize in providing Education Services (ISEs) are contracted by PRONADE to promote, organize and
support COEDUCAs and to monitor the development of the program. The ISEs train the parent members in administrative
and accounting issues and orient the teachers. The same trust fund arrangement (lideicomiso) is used to cover services
provided by the ISEs.
A team within MINEDUC is responsible for overseeing the development of the activities, monitoring the ISEs and orienting
the COEDUCAs and teachers. It will provide logistical support to the ISEs and evaluate their performance. The project
will be administered at the departmental level as the secretariats are established, and services will be contracted to further
decentralize the process.
The model has expanded continually over the last four years to include approximately 36,000 students and 470 contracted
teachers. This has involved 749 communities in 10 departments, with 345 COEDUCAs fully trained, organized and
functioning. In addition, 110 communities have organized COEDUCAs under an agreement between MINEDUC and the
Social Investment Fund (FIS).
Selection criteria: The criteria for the selection of communities to participate in the PRONADE prograrn are as follows:
*  The community should be located in a rural area;
*  The community should be willing to collaborate in organizing a COEDUCA;
*  There should be a local person available, to be contracted by the COEDUCA, who meets PRONADE's teacher
requirements (lives in the community, speaks the local language, and has teaching qualifications);
*  There should be a mninimum of 25 children per school.
Administration of the program: PRONADE coordinates closely with other M[NEDUC line units, including Curriculum,
Teacher Training, Textbooks, and School Construction. The administrative structure of PRONADE is made up of a
General Directorate and four specific departments: Finance, Education Services, Results and Information systems. They
have also contracted a legal advisor.
Essential roles and functions for the efficient operation and administrative development of the program are:
1. MINEDUC to establish norms and education policies; sign legal agreements with the COEDUCAs; guarantee the
transfer of funds; and oversee the quality of education.
2. The Operational Unit of PRONADE to provide the general guidelines for the program; determine the geographic areas to
be covered; contract the ISEs (private associations, NGOs, municipalities, universities); evaluate the performance of
participating ISEs; evaluate the results of the program; deliver the financial resources; and grant the legal personality to the
COEDUCAs, through MINEDUC.
3. The ISEs (Institutions that specialize in providing Education Services) to organize community COEDUCAs; train and
orient parents and teachers; and supervise the COEDUCAs and control the use of resources.



23
4. The COEDUCAs to administer the funds to contract and pay teachers, provide nutrition supplements (financed by the
Government) and purchase school supplies; supervise the teaching learning process; supervise the attendance and progress
of the children in school; and develop activities with the community to encourage their participation in the education
process.
5. The Teachers to oversee the technical -administrative issues; plan, develop and evaluate the education process with the
students; research learning problems; elaborate the education and administrative reports for the school; organize
recreational, cultural, social and sports activities; and prepare didactic materials, profiles of students by grade, the annual
operations plan, and class plans.
PROGRAMA DE LA NINA
While the average indigenous male has had 1.8 vcars of schooling, the average indigenous female has had only 0.9 years.
Though the gender disparity among the indigenous is greater, even non-indigenous Guatemalan women receive less
schooling than males: the average schooling for non-indigenous males is 4.5 years and 4.0 years for females.
The current Eduquemos a la Nifia Program has been financed by USAID as part of the BEST project. School principals,
teachers and local supervisors from approximately 900 schools (12 percent of the rural schools) have participated in
training workshops and received materials related to the education of girls, especially in rural areas of Guatemala.
This project will support the expansion and consolidation of the Programa de la Nifia. This includes the p.nting and
distribution of materials already developed, communication and awareness campaigns aimed at parents, community leaders
and the community in general, and training materials related to the education of girls in Guatemala. All new PRONADE
teachers, communities and supervisors will receive training on the "Programa de la Ninia" issues.
AFTERNOON SHIFTS
Under the current Basic Education II project, approximately 500 afternoon shifts have been created in rural and marginal
urban areas of Guatemala. The current administration has requested the expansion of this modality to meet the needs of
approximately 70,000 students.
The Basic Education Reform project will provide technical assistance to MINEDUC to identify and select schools in need
of afternoon shifts and aims at enrolling some 14,000 new students per year.
Project Component 2 - EFFICIENCY and QUALITY - US$9.5 million (total cost of component)
Efficiency and quality of basic education will be improved by supporting the curriculum development process, including
MINEDUC's Curriculum Development Unit (SIMAC); the expansion and consolidation of bilingual education; the
multigrade school model; and the creation of a Fund for Innovations to Support Educational Quality. A National
Assessment System will also be developed to monitor student achievement.
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
In the education reform process, an important element is the reform of the curriculum to meet the specific needs and
characteristics of the population to be served. In 1987, the Curriculum Development Unit - SIMAC (Sistema de
Mejoramiento y Adecuaci6n Curricular) was established with support from UNESCO and the Government of Holland to
take on this challenge.
SIMAC is a decentralized network that operates throughout Guatemala and includes the district, departmental, regional and
central educational levels. It operates in 345 demonstration schools, 201 of which are in rural areas throughout the country.
These schools, originally used to test innovative curriculum, are now being converted into development centers - CEDEs



24
(Centros de Desarrollo). The CEDEs will be used as training centers for the neighboring schools in their region. Their
role will be a determining factor in assuring improved quality of education in rural areas.
To ensure the quality of the CEDEs, training of staff members and directors of nearby schools will be necessary, as well as
equipment and didactic materials. The project will support this administrative training and pre-service and in-service
teacher training; production of resource materials, texts and periodic publications; development of minimum curricular
guides; and the establishment of new CEDEs. SIMAC will be responsible for the curriculum reform and teacher training.
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
Bilingual education has been included in Guatemala's curriculum for basic education during the last decades to provide
education to the indigenous groups. Formal and non-formal bilingual education programs have been introduced by the
Ministry of Education as well as by private institutions.
PRONEBI (Programa Nacional de Educacd6n Bilingue), one of 'he nation's largest bilingual programs, has shown
success in raising education achievement. This program currently covers approximately 1,317 schools (about 15% of the
Mayan school-age population). Teachers at these selected schools have received special training in bilingual teaching
methods, and student materials have been identified and/or developed by the program. Research has shown that non-
Spanish speaking students who have been involved in bilingual education programs outperform their peers involved in
traditional programs in most subject areas, including Spanish. Similarly it has been found that internal efficiency
indicators such as attendance, drop out rates, repetition and promotion rates have improved in PRONEBI schools (Richards
and Richards, 1990).
The New Bilingual Intercultural Unitary School (Nueva Escuela Unitaria Bilingaie Intercultural), has been supported by
MINEDUC and UNICEF since 1994 with an initial pilot program in Quiche in 10 schools. This program functions
predominantly in isolated rural areas where the mother tongue of the students is not Spanish, and one or two teachers are
responsible for the entire primary education cycle. These schools combine bilingual education with the multigrade teaching
and learning modalities.
In addition, other initiatives such as Escuelas Sin Fronteras, which began in 1989, and Proyecto Escuelas Mayas del
CEDIM, offer bilingual education modalities.
This project will support the expansion and consolidation of bilingual education programs. Approximately 40 workshops
will be offered to provide teacher training for some 1,820 teachers per year, and didactic materials for bilingual education
will be developed and distributed to the schools.
MULTIGRADE SCHOOLING IN RURAL GUATEMALA
Almost 35 percent of Guatemalan schools are unitary (have only one room and one teacher), in which students of different
ages and grade levels must learn together. The vast majority of indigenous Guatemalan students, many of them non-
Spanish speaking, live in rural isolated areas and attend unitary schools. There is substantial evidence that the quality of
education in unitary schools is lower than in complete schools. And yet, teachers are not trained in either multigrade or
bilingual teaching methodologies. Traditional, authoritarian teaching methods still prevail, emphasizing memorization and
recitation at the expense of active learning. This is particularly inappropriate for unitary schools, where students of
different ages necessarily have different learning needs.
The Unitary School program started in Guatemala in 1967 as a pilot project financed by UNICEF-UNESCO. In 1989
there were approximately 3,265 unitary schools, about 33% of the schools in the country. Half of the unitary schools were
located in rural areas. The New Unitary School (NEU) program started in Guatemala in 1993 as a component of the BEST
project supported by USAID. Originally established in Colombia in 1976, the NEU model is based on active learning and
stresses the use of student self-instructional materials, peer interaction and the utilization of resources such as school
libraries and learning corners. The program has been developed around four main components: in-service teacher training,



25
curriculum development, school administration and community participation. Currently the program is being implemented
in more than 200 incomplete rural schools in four Departments.
Through a sequential training program, selected teachers and supervisors are involved in in-service teacher training aimed at
improving their teaching skills and academic knowledge in different areas. The workshops are designed so that teachers
learn the mnain elements of multigrade teaching, the use of the instructional materials developed by the program (student
modules), and the involvement of the community in the implementation of the NEU schools. Recently the program printed
and distributed education materials (student modules) for the different subject areas of the curriculum to all the participating
NEU schools.
As part of the strategy to improve coverage in rural areas, it has been agreed that in those areas where a new school should
be established, the PRONADE administrative and financing model will be used, and if the school has less than 60 students
and no more than three teachers, then the multigrade program will be implemented.
The Basic Education Reform project will finance an expansion of the multigrade program with special emphasis on "active
learning". This support will include teacher training, and printing and distribution of didactic materials.
FUND FOR INNOVATIONS TO SUPPORT EDUCATIONAL QUALITY
A study was carried out recently by a local consultant to identify educational innovations aimed at improving school
coverage and quality of basic education throughout Guatemala. Based on the results, MINEDUC has expressed interest in
the creation of a fund to encourage the further development of innovative programs or projects and interventions at the
central, departmental and local levels. These could include research initiatives, classroom or school projects suggested by
teachers and administrators, or community-wide programs to encourage greater parental participation. The Fund will
finance the evaluation and/or expansion of promising interventions, such as the Accelerated Pre-Primary program, distance
education using mass media technology, the Franja Intercultural Maya program, and design and development of local
curriculum materials to respond to the needs of specific ethnic groups.
This project will finance the establishment of the Fund. Criteria for its use will be included in the Operational Manual.
NATIONAL ASSESSMENT SYSTEM - NAS
As part of the quality component, the Basic Education Reform project will finance the design and implementation of a
National Assessment System aimed at monitoring academic achievement in areas such as mathematics and language. The
Ministry of Education will contract a local academic institution to design and implement the system.
It has been agreed with MINEDUC that during the first year of implementation a stratified random sample of third and
sixth graders will be selected to participate in the testing. From each department a sample of students will be selected,
taking into consideration the region (rural or urban); the type of school (public or private); and the kind of program in
which the students are enrolled (traditional, PRONEBI, NEU, etc.).
Project Component 3 - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - USS13.6 million (total cost of component)
In order to assist MINEDUC in the redefinition and strengthening of the organizational framework for the sector, the project
will focus on key facets of institutional modernization. Institutional reforms in both "vertical" systems (redistribution of
functions and responsibilities between modemized central administration and decentralized and deconcentrated levels of
government and school administration) and "horizontal" systems (human resource management, financial management,
simplified administrative processes, planning) are to be carried out in coordination with the GOG's overall Public Sector
Modernization Program supported by the Bank's proposed Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan which
aims to:



26
* Modernize and strengthen the policy making and strategic planning functions of the central government through
structural reorganization and training;
* Streamline the organizational structure of the central government to improve the capacity for strategic decision making,
and redundant and inappropriate units and functions will be eliminated;
* Approve an Institutional Modernization Agreement (AMI), between the Ministry of Finance and MINEDUC, to ensure
the complementarity of MINEDUC reforms with overall Public Sector Modernization, particularly the reform of core
administrative systems (human resources, financial management) as well as civil service, Information System for
Financial Administration, etc.;
* lmprove decentralized capacity to deliver educational services such as supervision and school maintenance through the
strengthening of the decision-making and operational capacity of departments and individual schools. Improve client-
satisfaction orientation for the central ministry and subnational units through public awareness campaigns, the creation
of centers of excellence, and streamlined services in selected client-focused offices at all levels of government.
The Basic Education Reform Project will provide technical assistance and training to:
*  Strengthen the normative and regulatory functions of the central ministry;
*  Fortify appropriate operational and service delivery functions of sub-national units through the strengthening of
managerial systems and capacity at the departmental level;
*  Improve the organizational, participatory and decision-making capacity at the school level (COEDUCAS and
principals);
* Assist in the identification and construction/rehabilitation of physical plants for the 22 departmental directorates of
education and the provision of basic equipment;
• Improve key management skills, at both the central and departmental level, including skills in organizational
development, strategic planning, budgeting and public finance, human resource development and procurement
management;
*  Create and strengthen the management information system (MIS) of MINEDUC and subnational units (departments
and schools); equipment would also be provided;
* Conduct a national public awareness campaign and reorient and improve selected client-focused offices within
MINEDUC (central and subnational levels).
With the coordination and technical assistance that will be provided under the Public Sector Modernization TAL (see
Section 9), several additional administrative and organizational reforms are to be implemented. These will ensure the
compatibility of sector financial administration with SIAF, the compatibility and complementarity in changes in human
resource management within MINEDUC and across government, the creation of internal audit units in the ministry, and
additional training in change management and organizational development.



27
Annex 3
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Comwonent                        Local   |   Foreign         Total     % Foreign   % Total Base
l             I               Exchange       Costs
(US$ '000)
Expansion of Coverage and Equity         19,964.6          396.5     20,361.1           2            60
Improvement of Efficiency and Quality     6,180.9        2,557.7      8,738.6          29            21
Institutional Strengthening              10,223.5        1,682.8     11,906.3          25             16
Project Administration                      853.1          378.0      1,231.1          31             3
Total Baseline Cost                      37,222.1        5,015.0     42,237.1          12           100
Physical Contingencies                   585.6          259.7        845.3          31              2
Price Contingencies                     3,321.0         450.1      3,771.1          12              9
Total Project Cost                       41,128.7        5,724.8     46,853.5          12           t11



28
Annex 4
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Economic Analysis
Benefits of the Proiect
The proposed project has three principal objectives: (a) expansion of coverage at the primary education level; (b)
improvement of the quality of primary education; and (c) improvement of the management of education. Each component
of the project corresponds to each of these objectives, and will generate different types of benefits, respectively.
The first component (about 48% of project costs) will increase the coverage of primary education through expansion of the
PRONADE schools and expansion of afternoon shifts in existing schools. The primary school enrollment is expected to
increase as a result of the project.
Of the increased enrollment in primary schools, the percentage of girls will also increase as a result of the expansion of the
"Programa de la Nifia." To the extent that the benefits of primary education are different for boys and girls, the difference
in the gender composition resulting from the project also has to be taken into account in the calculation of project benefits.
Three measurable outcomes are expected as a result of the second component of the project, which includes teacher training
in multigrade education and bilingual education, provision of educational materials, establishment of the Fund for
Innovations, and a National Assessmcnt Systcm. These outcomes are: (a) reduction of the repetition rate by 5% annually;
(b) reduction of the drop-out rate from 10.5% to 7%; and (c) improvement of student leaming, measured by significant
increases in mean achievement scores.
The benefits of the third component of the project, which aims to improve the organizational structurc and managerial
capacity of the MINEDUC, is difficult to quantify. While it is cxpected that, through improved managerial efficiency, the
coverage and quality of education would significantly improve for the given cost (or convcrsely, the cost of providing thc
same amount of educational services will decrease), the quantitv of such benefit cannot be measured easily. Therefore, our
analysis will only capture the partial benefits of the project from the first two components, that are quantifiable, and hence
will present the lower bound of the potential benefits that the project is expected to generate.
Calculation of Benefits
Expanded Coverage
First, we will calculate the benefits of the additional enrollment generated by the project, with the assumption that there is
no change in the repetition rate and the drop-out rate. Table I shows the incremental enrollment of cohorts of students over
the years. The progression rates between grade levels are calculated based on the primary enrollment by grade in 1992
(column 1). The lower part of the table shows the number of students completing each grade and dropping out of school at
the end of the year for the eight year period that these three cohorts are in school. At the end of the year 2005, a total of
150,000 new students would have been enrolled in PRONADE schools and afternoon shifts as a result of the project, of
which 57,000 would have completed the first grade (38%), 17,000 would have completed the third grade (12%) and 39,000
would have completed the sixth grade (26%).
Since the benefit derived from additional vears of education, measured in terms of increased productivity and hence earnings
power, has been found to be different for male and female students, we divide the total incremental completers of each grade
obtained in Table I by gender. The gender ratio of each grade is also taken from the 1992 enrollment data. Table 2 shows
the number of PRONADE students completing each grade by gender.'
Expansion of the "Eduquemos a la Nifla" program will increase the enrollment of girls in targeted schools. However, since the
effect of this program is difficult to quantify, the benefit calculation assumes the existing gender ratio to continue.



29
In an earlier study by the Bank, an earnings function was estimated for employed workers, 14 to 65 years of age with
positive labor market earnings, with the schooling variable presented as a series of dummy variables controlling for each
additional year of completed schooling.2 The result of this estimation is shown in Tables 3 and 4 for male and female
workers respectively. These results show that, after controlling for the years of labor market experience and hours worked,
one year of primary school education will increase the future earnings by 23% for a male worker and by 30% for a female
worker. Similarly, for each year of additional schooling, the tables show the percentage of increase in the earnings. For
example, a female worker with six years of primary education -will earn 96% more than a similar worker without any
primary education.3
The next step is to calculate the estimated total benefits of the project. For the calculation of the lifetime income, the
retirement age was assumed to be 50 for both males and females. The latest available data of mcan carnings for workers
with no primary education was 122 quetzales per month on average (1989 data). Based on the relative earnings ratio by
gender, mean earnings were calculated to be 131 quetzales for men and 101 quetzales for women. These figures were
multiplied by 12 to obtain the mean yearly eamings, and then by 42 (years) to obtain the lifetime eamings. Unemployment
rates are not considered in the calculation. Also, this calculation is a simplified rough estimate, since we do not have a
lifetime eamings trajectory of workers with diffcrent levels of education.
Table 5 shows the number of ycars of productive life for each level of schooling completers (column 3) and incremental life
time eamings for each year of additional schooling (column 4), calculated using the percentages of camings increase by
additional year of schooling (shown in Tables 3 and 4). Based on thesc figures, total incremental eamings gencrated by the
project (i.e., expansion of PRONADE schools and aftRcmoon shifts to enroll 150,000 additional students) are calculated in
Table 64. This short-cut method of estimation yiclds US$2,272 million as the incremental total benefits of the expanded
access to PRONADE schools and aftemoon shifts. This estimated benefit is a base figure. It is important to note that
expected incremental eamings of those students who continue to secondary education are not included in this calculation.
Improved Quality
The effect of quality improvements in education is more difficult to measure in monetary terms. Reduction in rcpetition
rates can be translated into expansion in enrollment, as it allows additional students to be enrolled into spaces frccd by such
reduction. On the other hand, reduction in drop-out ratcs will dccreasc the spaccs availabic for new entrants, but will
increase the completion levels of primary education. The expected incrcase in mean achievemcnt scores as a result of the
quality improvement will also have some unquantifiable positive impact on the eaming power of the students. The total
benefits derived from expected outcomes of the second component of thc p: .ct will be significant, but difficult to measure.
Therefore, we will keep in mind that the bencfit figure obtained in the previous section is a lower bound.
Costs of the Project
Table 7 shows the estimated project cost by y ear5. The project will involve investment costs during five ycars of execution,
and incremental recurrent costs, which will increase over the ycars to reach about 49 million quctzales in 2002, the last year
of the project. About 89% of this incremental recurrent cost is for salaries paid to PRONADE school teachcrs and other
2 World Bank, "Guatemala Basic Education Strategy: Equity and Efficicncy in Education." Report No. 13304-GU. January 20, 1995.
Annex B.
3 The study estimated the eamings function separately for the sample of: (i) all workcrs; (ii) indigenous workers; and (iii) non-
indigenous workers. The results show that, for both male and femalc workers, the private rate of return for schooling is higher for
non-indigenous workers. Howevcr, the rate for indigenous workers is also high (12.5% for the sampic of all indigcnous workcrs).
Returns are especially high for indigenous femalcs at 13.2% compared to 11.0% for males. The study also cstimated an extended
model of the standard Mincerian eamings function, which included some demographic characteristics (migration experience, marital
status, gender, place of residence), training and language. The results show that all minority language groups arc at a disadvantage
compared to Spanish speakers, and all regions are at a disadvantage compared to Guatemala City. After controling for these
variables, the rate of return to schooling was found to be 10.7%.
4 Since the incremental earnings are calculated using earnings function coefficients on schooling, these incremental earnings are
considered to be discounted to the present value of 1995. for which year the mean eamings of workers with no education are used.
5 The cost figures are discounted to 1997 prices.



30
incremental staff. The rest of the recurrent cost is for office materials, staff travel, consumable teaching materials for
students, and other operational maintenance costs. All of these costs continue to be incurred after the completion of the
project, assuming that the new PRONADE schools established by the project will continue to operate. Therefore, for the
calculation of the total cost required to generate the benefit estimated in the previous section, we include the incremental
recurrent cost until 2005, the year when the last of the three cohorts of 50,000 entrants wvill complete their primary
education. Based on this assumption, the total direct project cost is US$61 million6.
The indirect cost incurred by the project is the foregone income of the young workers while they go to school. Table 8
calculates these costs. In the first column, foregone income of a student attending school is presented for each grade. For
example, if a boy completes 2nd grade, he could have earned the mean income of a worker w ith no education (1,572
quetzales per year) during the first year, and the mean income of a worker with one vear of primary education complete
(1,934 quetzales per year) for the second year, thus giving up 3,506 quetzales he could have earned during the two years he
attended school. The total of this foregone income for all of the new enrollment generated by the project is calculated to be
about US$140 million.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Thus, the total cost of the project is US$201 million, This figure secms to compare very favorably with the total estimated
benefit of the project, which is US$2,272 million. The short-cut method for calculating the intemal rate of return yields the
IRR for this investment as 28%7. The calculation presented in this analysis uses a simplified method, without taking into
account the lifetime trajectory of eamings and discount rate of eamings and income over time. The estimated figures are in
no way complete, and omit some important impact of the project. mostly on the side of the benefits. However, this simple
calculation is sufficient to demonstrate that the economic return of the proposed project is more than satisfactory, and the
investment in the proposed education project is economically justifiable.
6 It is important to note that this total cost does not include the costs incurred by the parents participating in the project. Thesc costs
may include the opportunity cost of the time spcnt by parcnts for participatorv school management. in-kind contributions, and the
services provided by parents for the operation of schools. HosNevcr. no data is available to allow incorporation of such costs in our
analNsis.
IRR = total benefits per person per year / total costs per person.
Total benefits per person per year: USS2.272 millionIl50.000/40 years = USS378
Total costs per person:        USS201 million/150000 = USSI,340
IRR  378/1,340 = 0.28



31
TABLE 1
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Incremental Enrollment as a Result of the Project at the Primary Level
Grade   Promotion   1992**    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005          Total   Percent
Rate*
1                437,000   50,000   50,000   50,000
2    1  62%      271,000 l           31,000   31,000   31,000                                  l
3        81%     219,000 l                  25,110   25,110   25,110                           l
4        77%      168,000                            19,335   19,335   19,335                  l
5        80%     135,000                                      15,468   15,468   15,468         l
6        83%      112,000                                              12,838   12,838   12,838
Grade
Complete
d
1                          19,000   19,000   19,000          _                                    57,000   38%
2                                    5,890    5,890    5,890  _                                   17,670   12%
3                                             5,775    5,775    5,775                             17,325   12%
4                                                     3,867    3,867    3,867                     11,601    8%
5     _____2,630    2,630    2,630                                                                 7,890    5%
6                                                                      12,838   12,838   12,838    38,514   26%
_   150,000  101%
* Percentage of students who are promoted to next grade level.
* Enrollment in 1992: Source is Guatemala: Equity and Efficiencv in Education (Report No. 13304-GU, 1995).
TABLE 2
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Incremental Completion of PRONADE Schools and Afternoon Shifts
Grade         Total          Male           Female
1st         57,000         30,210         26,790
2nd          17,670         9,542          8,128
3rd         17,325          9,529          7,796
4th         11,601          6,381          5,220
5th          7,890          4,340          3,550
6th         38,514         21,183          17,331
Total        150,000        81,185         68,815



32
TABLE 3
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Refonn Project
Estimated Earning Functions
All Males
Implied Step
Estimated Coefficient                   Sizes
S=1               .2259           (.0522)          0.2259
2                 .3301           (0322)          0.1042
3                 .5657          (.0303)          0.2356
4                 .6764          (.0419)          0.1107
5                 .7414          (.0549)          0.0650
6                 .9078          (.0297)          0.1664
7                 .9426          (.0701)          0.0348
8                1.0648          (.0724)          0.1222
9                1.3510          (.0548)          0.2862
10               1.4302           (.1139)         0.0792
11               1.7181           (.0698)         0.2879
12               1.7283          (.0478)          0.0102
13               1.7878          (.1276)          0.0595
14               2.0109           (.1143)         0.2231
15               2.1202           (.0962)         0.1093
16               2.3681          (.1570)          0.2479
17               2.3459           (.1139)        -0.0222
18+               2.5961          (.0770)          0.2502
Experience               .0446          (.0025)
(Experience)2          -0.0006         (.00004)
Log Hours               .3281           (.0349)
Constant                2.6039
.2                      .3060
N                        8,582
Source: ENS, 1989.
Notes: The dependent variable is the logarithm of earnings.
Numbers in parentheses are standard errors. All variables are significant
at the 1 percent level.



33
TABLE 4
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Estimated Earning Functions
All Females
Estimated Coefricient            Implied Step
Sizes
S=1             .2963         (.0760)          0.2963
2              .3655         (.0552)          0.0692
3              .3904         (.0483)          0.0249
4              .5156         (.0658)          0.1252
5              .6241         (.0842)          0.1085
6              .9602         (.0422)          0.3361
7             1.1403         (.1079)          0.1801
8             1.1441         (.0967)          0.0038
9             1.3533         (.0697)          0.2092
10            1.7581         (.1469)           0.4048
11            1.7228         (.0747)          -0.0353
12            2.0630         (.0500)           0.3402
13            2.0160         (.1287)          -0.0470
14            2.4287         (.1310)           0.4127
15            2.4222         (.1058)          -0.0065
16            2.5178         (.1973)           0.0956
17            2.7422         (.1446)           0.2244
18+           2.8441          (.1245)          0.1019
Experience         .0426          (0.034)
(Experience)2    -0.0006         (.00006)
Log Hours          .4726          (.0256)
Constant           1.6932
R2                 .5139
N                   3,342
Source: ENS, 1989.
Notes: The dependent variable is the logarithm of earnings.
Numbers in parentheses are standard errors. All variables are
significant at the 1 percent level.



34
TABLE 5
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Incremental Lifetime Earnings
Grade        Age Completing     Productive Life      Incremental Lifetime Earnings
Completed         Schooling           (Years)                 (1000 Quetzales)
Male               Female
S=    1                 7                 43                  46                46
2                8                  42                  63                54
3                9                  41                 116                57
4                10                 40                 132                77
5                11                 39                 143                92
6                12                 38                 177                143
(Note) Retirement age of 50 is assumed.
Mean earning of workers with no education: (1995 price)
Male           375 (quetzales /month)        4,500/year
Female         289 (quetzales/month)         3,468/year
TABLE 6
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Lifetime Incremental Earnings of PRONADE and Afternoon Shift Graduates
Increment              Total Incremental
per person                 Earnings
Completed        No. of Completers        (1000 Quetzales)         (Million Quetzales)
Grade
Male        Female        Male       Female       Male         Female
1st           30,210       26,790      46          46         1,390          1,232
2nd             9,542        8,128      63          54          601           439
3rd             9,529       7,796      116          57         1,105          444
4th             6,381       5,220      132          77         842            402
5th            4,340        3,550      143         92          621            327
6th           21,183        17,331     177         143         3,749         2,478
TOTAL                                                            8,308         5,322
13,630
______________   __________ _  ________    _______ ___(US$2,272   m illion)



35
TABLE 7
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Project Cost
(1000 Quetzales)
(1997 Prices)
Year         Investment        Recurrent           Total
1998               22,638             16,121          38,759
1999               22,056             21,598          43,654
2000               41,183             32,320          73,503
2001               19,598             32,232          51,830
2002               17,498             31,980          49,478
2003                6,699             31,980          38,679
2004                6,699             31,980          38,679
2005                6,699             31,980          38,679
TOTAL                                                  373,261
US$61 million
TABLE 8
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Indirect Cost of the Project (Foregone Income)
Completed      Foregone Income per           No. of                Total Foregone
Grade              Person                Completers                 Income
(Million Quetzales)
Male       Female       Male       Female      Male         Female
1st            1,572       1,212      30,210     26,790      47            32
2nd            3,506        2,788       9,542      8,128      33            23
3rd            5,597       4,448        9,529     7,796       53            35
4th            8,065       6,133        6,381     5,220       51            32
5th           10,706       7,975        4,340     3,550       46            28
6th           13,441       9,938       21,183    17,331      285           172
TOTAL                                                          515           322
837 million Q.
.____________  ___________ __________   __________   ____U S$140     m illion



36
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Systematic cost effectiveness analysis could not be undertaken for each project component. However for a central element
of the project, bilingual education, available information permits such analysis (see Velez and Patrinos, 1996). Significant
efficiency gains from bilingual education can be estimated by using the differential repetition and dropout rates registered for the
bilingual and control student groups and the differential unit cost data. While bilingual education is more expensive than traditional,
Spanish-only schooling, learning outcomes are greater. Greater leaniing outcomes are reflected in lower repetition rates. Lower
repetition rates, in turn, reduce the cost of supplying schooling. Thus, bilingual education is justified when higher learning
outcomes and improved efficiency more than offset the cost differential involved in bilingual education.
The benefits of compensatory bilingual education as an investment in human capital are significant for the disadvantaged, poor
indigenous population of Guatemala. Students of bilingual schools have higher attendance and promotion rates and lower
repetition and dropout rates. Bilingual students receive higher scores in all subject matters, including mastery of Spanish.
Therefore, bilingual education in Guatemala is an efficient public investment. This is confirmed by a crude cost-benefit exercise.
A shift to bilingual schooling in all schools in Guatemala would result in considerable costs savings as a result of reduced
repetition. The higher quality of education generating higher promotion rates will probably help students to graduate from primary
education before dropping out, and will substantially increase total educational levels at a lower cost. The cost saving due to
bilingual education, even after allowing for its higher cost, is estimated at over 32 million quetzales, or US$5.6 million in a year. A
reduction in dropout and its effect on personal earnings is estimated as an increase in individual yearly incremental earnings of
approximately 186 quetzales or US$33.80 on average. In conclusion, bilingual education is a good educational investment in
Guatemala.
IS BILINGUAL EDUCATION A GOOD INVESTMENT?
Simulated Cost Savings as a Result of Reduced Repetition due to PRONEBI
A                    B
PRONEBI              Traditional
1  Repetition Rates (1991)                                 .25                   .47
2   Annual Unit Costs                                     Q 246                 Q 235
3   NumberofIndigenousStudents(1991)                      96,194                653,413
4   NumberofRepeaters (1*3)                               24,049                307,104
5   Total Cost of Repetition (2*4)                      Q 5,892,005          Q 72,169,440
6   Sirnulated Cost of Repetition if PRONEBI Rate and Cost  -----            Q 40,021,485
Structure Prevailed (3B* 1A*2A)
7   Simulated Savings due to PRONEBI (5B-6B)              --                 Q 32,147,955



37
Simulated Benefits of Reduced Dropout Rates due to PRONEBI
A                     B
PRONEBI              Traditional
1  Number of Students (1991)                               19,243               130,905
2   Dropout Rates (1991)                                    .13                   .16
3   Number of Dropouts (1*2)                               2,502                 20,945
4   Simulated Decrease in Dropouts if PRONEBI rates                              3,927
prevail (3B-(2A*1B))
5   Incremental Earnings Associated with Extra Year of                           Q 186
Schooling (1989)
6   Simulated Combined Annual Incremental Eanings due                          Q 730,422
to PRONEBI (5B*4B)



38
Annex 5
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Education Financing and Financial Impact of the Project
Financial Summary
(US$'million)
Implementation Period                   Operational Period
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004    2005   2006   2007
Project Costs                                                   _
Investment Costs            3.9    4.0    7.6    3.7    3.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3
Recurrent Costs            2.8    3.8    5.8    5.9    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Total                    6.7    7.8   13.4    9.6    9.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                    86      80      78     66      44       0       0      0       0       0
Government                  14      20      22     34      56    100    100    100    100    100
Total                   100    100    100    100    1oo    1oo    10oo    1oo    1oo    10o
Overview. The evolution of public expenditures on education in Guatemala shows a pattern of decline during the 1980s:
public education expenditures as a share of GDP fell from 2.4% to 1.6 % between 1980 and 1990 (Table 1). While this
share increased to a high of about 1.8% in 1994, the average for the period 1990-96, at 1.7%, ranks among the lowest in the
region (Table 2). Overall central government expenditures, which fell from 15.1% in 1980 to about 10% in 1996, represent
a significantly lower share of GDP than the average. As in much of Latin America, reduced education budgets during the
1980s reflected mainly a decline in investment expenditure. In Guatemala, the share of investments in total expenditures fell
from about 17% to 6% between 1980 and 1990. Per student expenditures fell by 40% between 1980 and 1990, and dipped
to US$54 for primary education during the early 1990s. Details on trends in public expenditure on education are found in
Guatemala: Public Investment Review, IBRD, currently in draft, to be included in the project file.



39
Table 1
Education Financing Overview
Percent     Central             Public Education    Education
Growth      Government          as Percent of GDP   Expenditure as
Total     GDP          Expenditure as                          Percent of Central
Percent of GDP                          Government
_______   _____ ______ ___  __ ______  ______  Expenditure
1980                          15.1                2.4                  15.9
1990                          12.7                1.6                  13.0
1991          3.7             10.3                1.5                  15.1
1992          4.8             11.8                1.7                  14.5
1993          3.9             11.7                1.8                  15.4
1994          4.0             10.7                1.8                  16.9
1995          4.9             10.4                1.7                  16.0
1996'         3.3             10.6                1.6                  14.9
iF9_9_71_      4.2            11.9                 1.8                  15.2
Source: IBRD, Guatemala: Public Investment Review
* Preliminary, **Projected
Table 2
Comparison: Public Education Expenditures
Public Expenditures as    Government Expenditures on Education as
Percent of GDP (1989) j        Percent of Public Expenditures
.__ _ _ _ _ _Year
Costa Rica                      4.4                     19                     1991
El Salvador                     2.0                     14                     1989
Honduras                        4.6                     15                     1992
Nicaragua                       3.9                     18                     1992
Mexico                          3.8                     14                     1991
Panama                          6.2                     17                     1992
Source: UNDP, 1992; IBRD
Apart from a low level of expenditures on education, allocation patterns within the sector are both inequitable and
inefficient (Table 3). The Ministry's administrative expenditures are equal to overall expenditures on secondary education.
While the system faces the challenge of providing primary education to more than 1.5 million children, the budgetary share
for pre-primary and primary education decreased during 1980-94; and about a fifth of the budget goes for higher education,
which serves less than 100,000 students. In addition, salaries represent a higher than desirable share of expenditure at
about 95% of total. Research suggests that 15-20% of expenditure is needed for non-salary and investment inputs to
support adequate quality. Expenditure patterns further reflect a bias in favor of the Guatemala City metropolitan area by
comparison with other areas, notably the poorest areas of the country, such as the North and North West (Table 4).



40
Table 3
Table 3: Education - Structure of Recurrent Expenditures 1980-1995 (%)
1980    1985    1992    1993    1994    1995
Administration         n/a     n/a      14      10       11    11.0
Initial Education      n/a     na/       2       4        5     2.5
Primary Education       57      58      48      45       46    47.5
Secondary Education    14       17      12      11       10    11.0
Higher Education        17      14      19       17      16    16.4
Out-of -school         n/a     n/a       5       5        4       4
Other                   10       8      0.2      8        5     7.6
Source: IBRD, Guatemala Basic Education; Equity and Efficiency in Education, January 1995.
Table 4
Coverage and Distribution of Recurrent Expenditures in Primary Education by Region
1             2               3            3/2
Regional      Share of        Share of
Enrollment    School-age      Recurrent
Population    Expenditures
(% Net)                        (%)
Metropolitan              88.9          18.5             29.5        1.59
North                     41.1           8.7              6.7        0.77
North-East                71.2           9.1              9.1        1.00
South East                78.5           9.0              8.7        0.97
Central                   72.4          11.1              9.3        0.84
South-West                69.3          26.3             21.9       0.83
North-West                46.5          14.7              12.2       0.83
Peten                     56.5           3.0              2.5        0.83
Source: IBRD, Guatemala Basic Education...op.cit, and IBRD, Guatemala an Assessment of Poverty, April 1995.
Projections. Since 1992, the GOG began to increase emphasis on social sector expenditures, including expenditures on
education. Since 1996, and in particular with the signing of the recent Peace Accords, further emphasis and refinements
have been introduced, which focus on primary education and rural areas. These include commitments to: increase the share
of GDP allocated for education to 2.4% by 2000; increase coverage of primary education to provide at least three years for
all school-aged children by 2000; and strengthen administration of resources.
Table 5, below, shows the impact of the costs of the proposed project to be supported by the Bank. Total project costs
amount to US$46.8 million during 1998-2002, and represent from 1.9% to 3.3% of public expenditure on education under
the growth assumptions of a base scenario using conservative estimates for both GDP and central education budget gmwth.
Beginning the year after project completion, incremental financing requirements attributable to the project would represent
1.5% of the education budget and would average 1.3% annually over the period 2003-2007. This impact would represent a
manageable fiscal burden. Any projections based on the higher growth targets included in the Peace Accords would yield a
reduced fiscal impact of the project.



41
Table 5
Financial Impact of the Project
(1997 prices)
1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  2002   2003   2004   2005   2006  2007
GDP                           16.6   17.2  17.9    18.6  19.4  20.2   21.0   21.8   22.7  23.6  24.5
US$billions                        _
Central Govt. Education       308    326   346       367   389   412    437    463    491   520   552
Budget
(US$ millions)                                                                                        _
Education Budget as Share     1.86    1.90  1.93    1.97  2.01   2.04   2.08   2.12   2.16  2.20  2.25
of GDP  (%)                 I_ _    I_ _                                       I__            I_
Project Cost
Investment                           3.7   3.6     6.8   3.2   2.9    1.1    1.1    1.1   1.1   1.1
Recurrent                            2.6   3.5     5.3   5.3   5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3   5.3   5.3
Total (US$ millions)                   6.3   7.1    12.1   8.5   8.2    6.4    6.4    6.4   6.4   6.4
Project Cost as Share of               1.9   2.0    3.3   2.2   2.0    1.5    1.4    1.J   1.2   1.1
Education Budget (%)                                               _        ____ .-
Notes: Assumes that GDP grows at 4% per annum (slightly below the base case scenario in the Guatemala: Public
Investment Review, IBRD) and that the central education budget grows at 6% per annum, representing the average annual
increase in the education budget over GDP growth in the 1991-96 period.



42
Annex 6
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Table A. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
(In USS million equvwalnt)
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method
...............................   i ...........6.........................................................................
ICB        NCB        Other       Consulting    Total
Services
1 Civil Works                                                    1.5   a/                   1.5
(1. 1)                     (1.*1)
2 Goods
a. Textbooks'                           1.2         0.5        0.2                         1.9
(1.0)      (0.4)      (0.2)                       (1.6)
b. Didactic materials                               1.5        0.7   c/                   2.2
(1.2)      (0.4)                      (1.6)
c. Equipment and Furniture              0.4         1.0        0.4   d/                    1.8
(0.3)      (0.9)      (0.3)                       (1.5)
d. Vehicles                                                    0.1   e/                   0.1
(0.1)                      (0.1)
3 Consultants' Services and PCU Fixed-Term consultants                          8.9         8.9
(8.9)       (8.9)
4 Training                                                       2.7   f/                   2.7
(2.7)                      (2.7)
5 Miscellaneous
a. Information campaigns                                                      0.7         0.7
(0.7)       (0.7)
b. Educational Innovations Fund                                3.5   gL                   3.5
(2.8)                      (2.8)
c. Teachers' Honoraria                                        21.6                        21.6
(I 1.0)                    (I 1.0)
d. Operating Costs                                             1.9   h/                   1.9
(1.0)                      (1.0)
TOTAL        1.6        3.0        32.6           9.6         46.8
(1.3)      (2.5)      (19.6)          (9.6)      (33.0)
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank,
excluding
contingencies, taxes and duties. Totals may not add due to rounding.



43
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements (Continues from Table A)
(a) Lump sum, fixed price contracts, for construction/rehabilitation of 22 MINEDUC departmental directorates, with an
average cost each of approx. US$66,000, to be awarded by competitive procedures among a minimum of three qualified
local contractors.
(b) Printing services.
(c) Includes aggregate amounts of US$0.7 million for didactic materials purchased following national shopping procedures.
Purchases will be made through COEDUCAs at the local level, with resources transferred from GOG.
(d) Includes (i) computing equipment and software to be procured through LIB; (ii) an aggregate amount of US$100,000
for small purchases of computing equipment and software, in contracts no larger than US$40,000 equivalent each, using
shopping procedures; and (iii) purchase of office equipment, furniture and supplies up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0
million.
(e) LIB procedures for motorcycles for school supervision.
(f) Does not involve procurement (courses, workshops, study tours, etc.).
(g) Innovation educational grants to be awarded, with criteria included in the Operational Manual, costing less than
US$10,000 each, on average.
(h) Maintenance of computing, vehicles, office equipment and office supplies financed by IBRD under the project.
Procedures
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods,
works and services -- Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised Jan./Aug.
1996), and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997). National
preference, as specified in Appendix 2 of the Guidelines, will apply to goods manufactured in Guatemala.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will include: (a) awards to lowest evaluated bidder; and (b) foreign bidders would not
be precluded or required to be registered locally to participate in NCB.



44
TABLE B
THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
(US$ '000)
Contract Value       Procurement          Contract Subject
Category            | (Threshold)         Method                to Prior Review
1. Civil Works
150-1,500            NCB                  First contract
< 150                Three quotations     First two contracts
2. Goods
Printing Services    >150               ICB                   All
40 - 150             NCB                  First contract
< 40                 National shopping    None
Didactic Materials   > 40               NCB                   First contract
< 40                 National shopping    None
Comp. equipment   >150                  ICB                   All
and vehicles      40 - 150              LIB                  All
< 40                 National shopping    None
Office equipment    >40                 NCB                   First contract
and supplies, office  <40               National Shopping     None
and school furniture
Office and school    < 3                Direct contracting    None
supplies
3. Consulting Services
Selection according to Consultant Guidelines (Jan. 97)
> 500                Sole source          Yes
Universidad del Valle
<200                 QCBS                 All
< 75                 Consultants'         Annual Program
Qualifications
<50                  Consultants'         Annual Program
Qualifications      and all for contracts
Individuals          of >35,000
The prior review arrangements outlined above will result in ex-ante review by the Bank of approximately 25% of all Bank-
financed contracts by value. This relatively low level of prior review is acceptable in light of the concurrent quarterly audits
which will be carried out during the life of the project, as these audits will cover procurement procedures as well as
financial transactions.



45
Documents:
For LIB: World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Goods, as published by the Bank. Final documents in place by
effectiveness.
For NCB: Standard bidding documents for goods and works based on Bank's SBDs were reviewed and found satisfactory
during negotiations. Final documents in place by effectiveness.
Consultants' Contracts: Bank's Standard Contract (lump sum); Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) which includes (a)
letter of invitation (LOI, with/without price as selection criteria); and (b) Information to Consultants (ITC).
Other documents: Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation form, standard general and specific notices, as required.
Measures to improve MINEDUC's procurement capacity:
The PCU will recruit, inter alia, a qualified procurement specialist by effectiveness, who will be responsible for
coordination, implementation and supervision of the Procurement Plan for the project. A procurement agent will conduct all
LIBs for computing equipment of the MIS and vehicles.
An Operational Manual (OM) will include a specific chapter on procurement in the project. In the case of the Educational
Innovations Fund, the OM will specify selection criteria, acceptable to the Bank, for the financing of Educational
Innovations.
Disbursements
Table C describes the categories of disbursement in the project. Disbursements would not be made for works, goods and
services which have been procured from ineligible sources or which have not been procured according to the Bank's
procurement and consultants' guidelines.



46
Table C
Allocation of
Disbursement Category     Loan Amount           Percentage to be financed
(US$)
1. Civil Works                     1,000,000 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
2. Educational materials,          2,700,000 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
eqwpment and furniture                      local expenditures
3. (a) Technical assistance,       8,000,000 100%
Consultants' services
(b) Audits                        200,000
4. Training                        2,500,000 100%
5. Teacher salaries and           11,500,000 80% of expenditures until an aggregate
operating costs,                         amount of US$2 million is reached; 70%
including non-reusable                   until an aggregate amount of US$4.5
student supplies                         million is reached; 60% until an aggregate
amount of US$8 million is reached; 50%
until an aggregate amount of US$10.5
million is reached; and 20% thereafter
6. Educational Innovations Fund    3,300,000 90% of local expenditures
7. Unallocated                     3,800,000
Total                 33,000,000



47
Administration of Disbursements: MINEDUC will administer GOG funds, according to the terms and conditions
established in the Operational Manual, through a revolving account (fondo rotatorio) in Quetzales in the Central
Bank (Banco de Guatemala) which will be replenished quarterly. The GOG will establish a Special Account in US
dollars at the Central Bank to cover the Bank's share of financing of eligible expenditures. PRONADE schools,
COEDUCAS and ISEs will receive funds, via transfers, under the Trust Fund Agreement that has been established
by the Borrower in a national banking institution. Other expenditures for large contracts in the project will be made
through a procurement agent, under a procurement agreement to be signed by loan effectiveness. Disbursements
for smaller contracts will be handled by the PCU. For the Education Innovations Fund, disbursements for contracts
will be made by the PCU according to the mechanism specified in the Operational Manual.
Retroactive Financing: No retroactive financing will be necessary. Preparatory activities for the project are
being financed under the current Basic Education II project and resources from other donors.
Use of Statement ef Expenses (SOEs) for:
Contracts for works less than US$150,000;
Contracts for goods and printing services of training materials less than US$150,000 equivalent;
Contracts for consultants less than US$35,000 for individuals and US$75,000 for firms;
Expenditures related to training activities that do not require procurement: events, workshops, study tours, travel
and per diems;
Operating costs, including maintenance of office, vehicles and computing equipment, and office supplies financed
under the project;
Educational Innovation Fund expenditures of less than US$ 10,000.
Trust Fund and Special Account: A Trust Fund has already been established in a national banking institution to
administer disbursements to implement the PRONADE program, which will provide efficiency in the transfer of
funds from MFP. Deposits in this trust fund will be made against quarterly allocations to MINEDUC, as
established in yearly budgets. An internal auditing mechanism has been established to ensure that funds are used
accordingly with terms and conditions previously agreed between MINEDUC and each COEDUCA. For other
expenses in the project, a Special Account will be opened with an authorized allocation of US$2.0 million and an
initial deposit not to exceed US$1.0 million corresponding to anticipated expenditures in the first months of project
implementation. The Special Account would be replenished monthly in order to maintain liquidity and to report on
the usage of funds. Replenishment applications would be accompanied by reconciled bank statements reflecting
transactions made from the account and claimed in the respective applications.



48
Annex 7
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
280.8                417.5
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          15                   22
First Bank mission (Re-identification)          03/11/1996            03/11/96
Appraisal mission departure                     06/24/1996            01/27/97
Negotiations                                     03/31/97              04/07/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/01/97
Prepared by: Government of Guatemala. Ministry of Education.
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Core team members: Carlos Rojas (TM since
January, 1996); Eduardo Velez (TM until January 1996); Madalena dos Santos, Eleanor
Schreiber, Mari Minowa, Rosita Estrada, Elizabeth Waters, Cynthia Hobbs.
Consultants: Maria Elena Anderson, Cesar Guerrero, Alfredo Sarmiento, Richard Moore.



49
Annex 8
GUATEMALA
Basic Education Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
MINEDUC. 1996. "Perfil del Proyecto: Apoyo a la Reforma Educativa."
MINEDUC. 1996. "Proyecto de Apoyo a la Reforma Educativa. Plan de Implementaci6n."
MINEDUC. 1996. "PRONADE: Manual de Normas y Procedimientos."
B. Bank Staff and Consultant Assessments
ASIES. 1996. "Proyecto Modernizacon de la Organizaci6n Departamental del Ministerio de Educaci6n." Estudio
presentado al Mimisterio de Educaci6n.
Asturias de Barrios, Linda y Mejia de Rodas, Idalma 1996. "Sistematizaci6n de Informaci6n sobre Modalidades
Educativas Innovadoras en Educacion Preprimaria y Primaria Rural en Guatemala." Estudio realizado
para el Ministerio de Educaci6n.
Patrinos, Harry y Velez, Eduardo. 1996. "Costs and Benefits of Bilingual Education in Guatemala. A Partial
Analysis." Human Capital Development Working Papers. No 74.
Patrinos, Harry and Psacharopoulos, George. 1992. "Socioeconomic and Ethnic Determinants of Grade Repetition
in Bolivia and Guatemala. Policy Research Working Papers.
RUTA Social. 1996. "Guatemala: El Gasto Social y su Eficiencia."
World Bank. 1995. "Guatemala Basic Education Strategy: Equity and Efficiency in Education."
World Bank 1995, "Guatemala An Assessment of Poverty"
World Bank 1996, "Multigrade Schooling: The New Unitary School in Rural Guatemala".
World Bank 1997. "Public Investment Review" (Forthcoming).
World Bank 1997, "Education Reform Meets the Challenges of the Peace Accords".
World Bank 1997, "The Education Reform in Guatemala and the Indigenous People Participation Plan".
World Bank 1997, "Bilingual Education in Guatemala".
World Bank 1997, "Indigenous Peoples, Education and Language".
World Bank 1997, "Girls' Education".
C. Other
Consejo Nacional de Educacion Maya- CNEM. 1996. "Propuesta Maya de Reforma Educativa Nacional."
Seminario de Educaci6n Maya por la Paz. Xelju', Quetzaltenango. Mayo-30 Junio 1, 1996.
Clay, Susan A. 1994. "The Education of Girls in Guatemala: from Oversight to Major Policy Initiative. Trabajo
presentado en la Conferencia de la Comparative and International Education Society (CIES), en San Diego,
California.
Mayen, Guisela y Sazo de Mendez, Eva. 1994. "Estudio Evaluativo sobre Modalidades Educativas Innovadoras."
Estudio realizado para UNICEF, Guatemala.
MINEDUC. 1996. "%Que es la N.E.U.?"
MINEDUC. 1993. "A favor de las Nifias." Rinc6n de Recursos Para Comprender, Explicar y Facilitar el
Aprendizaje sobre la Situaci6n de la Nifia.
MINEDUC. 1996. "La Escuela Rural Guatemalteca en los Albores del Tercer Milenio. Genesis de una Nueva
Escuela Unitaria en Guatemala."
SEGEPLAN. 1995. " Plan de Acci6n de Desarrollo Social: 1996-2000."
SEGEPLAN, GTZ y CIEN. 1995. "Memoria: Primer Foro Nacional de Descentralizaci6n. Guatemala. Febrero
20-21, 1995."
Uni6n Europea. 1996. " Programa de apoyo al desarrollo de la Educaci6n en Guatemala."
USAID. 1994. " Improving Educational Quality Project. Guatemala. Study of the Nueva Escuela Unitaria Pilot
Program." Estudio preparado por el Institute for International Research en colaboraci6n con Juarez y
Asociados y la Universidad de Pittsburgh.
*Including electronic files.



50
Annex 9
Basic Education Reform Project
Statement of Loans/Credits
as of January 31, 1997
(in millions of US$)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations
Loan/         Fiscal                                                                             Closing
Credit        Year        Borrower        Purpose          Bank         IDA      Undisbursed       Date
Credits
0 Credit(s)                                                 0.00
Closed    I
_____________  ____________                                ~~~~ ~~ ~~~0.00  0.00   _ _ _ _ _ _
Loans
20 Loan(s)                                                     498.43        0.00
Closed                                                       _
29720         1988                     MUNICDEVI               9.90                      0.29    06/30/97
30020         1988                      SCNDRY RD             25.58                     13.39    06/30/98
RIHB_            ___
30030         1988                       BASIC ED             18.79                      8.63    06/30/97
35340         1992                      SOCIAL INV            20.00                      7.77    12/31/97
_   _        ~~FUND                                                 _
38950          199                    INTEG FINAN              9.40                      8.87    12/31/99
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _M G T
Total Number of Loans = 5                                        83.67                     38.96
Total***                  l                       582.10        0.00
of which repaid           l                       350.72        0.00
Total held by Bank & IDA                          231.38         00
Amount Sold          5.76 |
of which           5.76 |
repaid                 l
Total Undisbursed                                                            38.96



S1
Annex 10: Guatemala at a Glance
Lattn  tower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America  middle-
GUtSmS  & Carlb lfl--Inootiie    Development diamond,
Population mid-1995 mllMbns)                         106       480    1-154
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                           1,340     3,300    1 700                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (Wblons USS)                                14.3  -1,84 - 1 S62
Avetag annual growth, 1990--6
Population %)                                         29        1 8      14      GNP
Labor force (E)                                       3.5       2.4      1.8  -                                  Gross
Per                           primary
Moit recent estimate (lastyearavalable slnce 1989)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% orpopulation)
Urban population (% of total populalbn)                42       74       56
Life expectancy at birth (yewrs)                       66       68       67
Infant modality (per 1.000 Hve births)                 43       41       3                 Access to safe water
Child malnutrilion (X otchildren unesr 5)
Access lo safe water (% of populaton)                  64       8t1      78
Illiteracy (% OF population age 154)                           `13                          Guatemala
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)   84      110      104           -Lower-m/ddteIncome
Female                                              78          .     101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975.    1988     1994    199S
GDP (billons US$)                            3.6      9.7      12.9    14.7      Economic ratlos
Gross domestic investment/GOP              `1684     11.5      15.5    15A
Exports of goods and non-faclor services/GOP  21.7   11.9 -    17.7    19i                Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  14.3    10 5        8.3      9.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  14.6      8.9      10.1    11.5
Current accounl balance/GDP                  -1.8    -2.5      -5.3    -3.9
Inlerest payments/GD                         0.3      1.2       0.7      0.6     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                               8.8    27.3       23.4     21.0
Total debt service/exports                   4.4    27.9       10.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                      18.9
Present value of debt/exports                                  94.1                           Indebtedness
1975-4  1981-96    1994      1996  1996.0
(average annual growth)                                                                    Guatemala
GOP                                   ..     3.6      4.0       4.9      5.1         - wer-mtalncome grop
GNP per capita                               0.9      1.0       1.9      2.0
Exports of goods and nfs            -1.6     4.7      48        8.1      6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1S76    1986      1994    1996 |
(% of GDP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculure                                                     24.7    24.6      3o                _
Industry                                                       19.2    19.3      20 -
Manufacturing                                                                   10         _                 _
Services                                                       56.1    56.1       o'-=
Private consumption                         78.9    82.6       85.7    84.5    -10     90   91   92             0      5
General government consumption               6.9      7.0       6.0      5.9              -     GDI    0-GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services    23.5    13.0       24.9    25.7
1976-84  1986-98     1994     1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports (%
Agricuiture                                           2.6       2.4      3.3     40
Industry                                              3.0       2.4      4.3
Manufacturing                                        2.1      2.8      3.3         -
Services                                              3.5       5.3      6.0     20
Private consumption                                   3.4       4.8      5.2     Io
General govemment consumption                5.3      4.2       3.9      45o      0
Gross domestic investment                   -2.5      5.8      -0.3      6.0    -10
Imports of goods and non-factor services     -4.9     8.6       5.9    11.0                    Exports    import
Gross national product                                3.8       4.4      6.5
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond vwill
be incomplete.



52
Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986     1994      1996
Domestic prkes                                                                     Inflation (%J
(% change)                                                                        so
Consumer prices                              13.2     18.7      12.6      8.6    40 .
implicit GDP deflator                           ..    18.8      11.6      9.9
Government finance                                                                -0        "      -,
(% of GDP)                                                                         o
Current revenue                                 ..      ..      10.1     10.9             9     b     e2   93   94   95
Current budget balance                          ..      ..       1.3      2.0                    GDP def.   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..      -1.5      -0.1
TRADE
1978    1986     1984      1996
(rmilions USS)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ,,   1,060     1,687    2,156     4.000
Coffee                                               452       346      576
Sugar                                         ..      44       172      246      3,000
Manufactures                                   .        .
Total imports (cif)                            ..    1,175     2.781    3,293      2,000
Food                                          ..      85       557      607      1, 00     r-{1fl1   r I  II
Fuel and energy                               ..     262       307      41
Capital goods                                 ..     197       702      83            J    A i
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..      115       103      133            89  90  91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..       87        99      101                   1Exports   0] Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..    132        103      131
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985     1994      1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services      783    1,161     2,287    2,821
imports of goods and non-factor services      860    1,257     3,224    3,727        .s               92 ||3 |4 9|
Resource balance                              -77      -96      -937     .906 
Net factor income                             -66     -170      -138     -169
Net current transfers                          78       19       386      495    -4
Current account balance,                                                                                        L
before official transfers                   -65     -247      -689      -580      t 
Financing items (net)                         169      354       749      423                        L
Changes in net reserves                      -104     -107       -60      157
Memo:                                                                            |
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           353      472       943      793
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   1.0      1.1       5.8      5.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          322    2,656     3,017    3,083
IBRD                                         39      225       177      158                 G       A
IDA                                           0        0         0        0                519     158
Total debt service                             35      335       283      282                                   D
IBRD                                          4       24        60       54                                  670
IDA                                           0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                        F
Ofricial grants                               3       27        89       95           588
Official creditors                           23      139        66       10
Private creditors                            27        2        46       12
Foreign direct investment                    80       62        38      160                               E
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0        0                             1150
World Bank program
Commitments                                  26       45         0        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 7       49        29       13      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F . Private
Principal repayments                          1       13        44       40      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fiows                                     6       36       -15      -27     __|
Interest payments                             3       11        16       14
Net transfers                                 3       24       -31      -41
Intematiornal Economics Department                                                                                  8/20/96
Type Your Narne Here
O:\CHOBBS\GUATEPAD\NEWPAD12.DOC
April 24, 1997 4:08 PM









IBRD 20316
92°                              910                              900                             890         J
GUATEMALA
PAVED ROADS                                                                                                             1
-18°  _____UNPAVED ROADS
-- -  TRACKS                                                    M  E X I C 0
I I-RAILROADS
AIRPORTS                      !
Z    PORTS                         I
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
-*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\o,o Cobolo1
ox.                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17'
-17°
KILOMETERS                LS.dBE          
0    20    40    60    80               '
I ~~a> I                                       
0   10  20  30  40  50                                                                b
MILES
MEXICO I C
-1 6°           j '                                      o    l    6                      X      \                                   16°1
C".H. S.l  F  p  Pb000 Soobo  PLERTO BARRIO 
Tomo d. Co-,Io
j \ | >>C|Ut C06>f ~~~£ohob6n El Eftor 
0            Coooooo 00  ~~~~TOTONICAPAN~
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' O  o0 tO fOB Ou1iuo
=0000                 Soo AodO f                                       L
0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
r { dE ~~ohol                                     Chiq0,,o5 _ I   /            EL OGE S a     z               -zoo6 NCARh Ew
\  XIcoo  esequJ  QpZAtTE^G C A J ,,f . js tCHh~~~~~~~~~~~~~HQUIMULA %a   pn m*q z
140  b o r            ouloe,2eunetIpo iPs  4o                              Son SolIoodo, EL SALVADORt-lAAU
P  84   ffi  /;o sona¢8" EL SALVADO                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~coSTA RICA( 
92°                              91'                            To AAO AeI.                    _                    PANAMA
A CY                                             9SEPTEBER 1986









IMAGING
Report No.:         16534   GU
Type:      PAD



