Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4167-GU
Loan Agreement
(Basic Education Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4167-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
Page  2
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Basic Education" means pre-primary level and grades 1 through 6 of 
primary level; 
(b)
"COEDUCA" means an administration committee established in selected 
public pre-primary and primary schools with legal personality and comprised of the 
parents of the students attending such school (Comité Educativo de Autogestión 
Educativa); 
(c)
"COEDUCA Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(d)
"Decree No. 93" means Decreto No. 93 of the Borrower dated April 27, 1945 
and published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) in May 1945, which established, 
inter alia,  the functions of the ministries of the Borrower, as such Decree has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(e)
"Educational Innovation" means a specific project which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan consisting of the provision of technical assistance and training and/or the 
acquisition and utilization of goods to carry out educational initiatives for the 
benefit of the students of Basic Education; 
(f)
"Educational Innovation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement; 
(g)
"Eligible Entity" means a public pre-primary school or a public primary 
school or a COEDUCA or an individual or any other entity which meets the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual for the carrying out of an Educational Innovation; 
(h)
"Executive Decree No. 165-96" means Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 165-96 of the 
Borrower dated May 21, 1996 which established, inter alia, the institutional 
decentralization of MINEDUC; 
(i)
"Executive Decree No. 457-96" means Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 457-96 of the 
Borrower dated October 22, 1996 which provided, inter alia, for the restructuring of 
the National Community-Manage Program for Educational Development (Programa Nacional 
de Autogestión Para el Desarrollo Educativo- PRONADE) and the establishment of a trust 
fund in a private banking institution in Guatemala;
(j)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Project’s performance indicators and 
targets; (ii) the minimum counterpart funds for the Project; and (iii) the personnel 
to be hired by the PCU, as such letter may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(k)
"ISE" means an entity or non-governmental organization acceptable to the 
Bank which provides education services in Guatemala; 
Page  3
(l)
"MINEDUC" means the Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación) of 
the Borrower;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower’s manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) criteria for establishing public primary 
schools and their respective COEDUCAs under Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the criteria 
for identifying public pre-primary and primary schools in need for afternoon shifts 
under Part A.6 of the Project; (iii) a format COEDUCA Agreement; (iv) the terms of 
reference for carrying out technical assistance and training activities under the 
Project; (v) the criteria for approving Educational Innovations; (vi) a format 
Educational Innovation Agreement; (vii) the description of the Project Area; (viii) 
the procedures and the terms and conditions to operate the revolving fund mentioned in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and (ix) the terms and scope of the ongoing 
consultation process with the local communities and/or groups benefited under the 
Project;  
(n)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established within MINEDUC  
pursuant to Ministerial Resolution (Resolución Ministerial) No. 977 dated September 
13, 1990;
(o)
"Procurement Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.10 
of this Agreement; 
(p)
"Project Area" means the area described in the Operational Manual; 
(q)
"Project Management Committee" means the committee referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;  
(r)
"Quetzal" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(s)
"Trust Fund" means the account (Cuenta de Fideicomiso) opened by the 
Borrower with the Trustee (as such term is defined herein); 
(t)
"Trust Fund Agreement" means the agreement entered or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Trustee (as such term has been defined herein) under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(u)
"Trustee" means a private banking institution operating in Guatemala and 
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
three million Dollars ($33,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a  
special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
Page  4
and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. The Minister of MINEDUC (or such other person or persons as such 
Minister shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through MINEDUC and with the assistance and participation of the 
Project Management Committee, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, technical, administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices, and in accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain during 
the implementation of the Project, a management committee (the Project Management 
Committee) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated under Part A.3 of the Project to each COEDUCA 
established under Part A.1 of the Project (as provided in paragraph (d) below and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual) under an agreement 
(the COEDUCA Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and each  COEDUCA, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
(d)
(i)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) 
above and unless the Borrower has established an alternative 
mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, to administer and disburse 
the funds mentioned herein, the Borrower shall operate and 
maintain during the implementation of the Project the Trust Fund 
in accordance with the corresponding provisions of the Trust Fund 
Agreement for purposes of administering and disbursing on behalf 
of the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A.1 
through A.4 of the Project and the corresponding counterpart funds 
for such Parts of the Project as set forth in the Implementation 
Letter; and 
(ii)
except as provided in (i) herein, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the 
Trust Fund Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
In the event that the Borrower has established an alternative mechanism 
as provided in paragraph (d) (i) above, the Borrower shall operate and maintain during 
the implementation of the Project such alternative mechanism in a manner and under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(f)
For purposes of carrying out Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into an agreement (the Educational Innovation Agreement) with each Eligible 
Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth 
in the Operational Manual.
(g)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each COEDUCA Agreement and 
each Educational Innovation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce  any COEDUCA Agreement or any Educational 
Innovation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable the Borrower to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance with the 
performance indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall continue to operate and maintain, during 
Project implementation, the PCU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation to assist the Borrower in the 
coordination and monitoring of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall  make available in Quetzales to MINEDUC each calendar 
year of Project implementation the minimum amounts of counterpart funds set forth in 
the Implementation Letter for the Project activities described in the corresponding 
plan referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (a) and 3.06 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain 
at all times during Project implementation in its central bank, a revolving fund in 
Quetzales (in accordance with the procedures and terms and conditions set forth in the 
Operational Manual) with a quarterly balance equivalent to at least the amount of 
counterpart funds required to carry out the activities under Parts A.5, A.6, A.7, B 
and C of the Project for the next three months of Project implementation, as such 
activities and minimum amounts are set forth in the corresponding plan mentioned in 
Section 3.11 of this Agreement and the Implementation Letter, respectively. 
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than thirty days after the conclusion 
of each calendar year during the implementation of the Project, starting in 1999, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request on the progress made by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Project during the calendar year preceding the date of presentation of such 
report.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than thirty months after the 
Effective Date review jointly with the Bank the progress made by the Borrower in: (a) 
carrying out the Project; and (b) achieving the objectives of the Project, based on 
the indicators and targets referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.  As part of 
such review the Bank may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, the Borrower shall 
not later than forty five days after the conclusion of such review furnish such action 
plan to the Bank and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such 
action plan in accordance with its terms.  
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the Procurement 
Agreement) with a procurement entity acceptable to the Bank under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the procurement 
of goods, works and consultants’ services under Parts A.5, A.6, B and C of the 
Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Procurement 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Page  6
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than November of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in November 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to, inter alia, the activities to be carried 
out during the calendar year following the date of presentation of each such report; 
and (b) thereafter carry out such plan in accordance with its terms. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
That Decree No. 93 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts A.1 
through A.4 of the Project. 
(b)
That Executive Decree No. 165-96 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower  to carry out the 
Project. 
Page  7
(c)
That Executive Decree No. 457-96 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts 
A.1 through A.4 of the Project.  
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events as specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
That the Borrower has approved the Operational Manual. 
(b)
That the Procurement Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto. 
(c)
That the PCU has hired the personnel listed in an annex to the 
Implementation Letter. 
(d)
That the Borrower has established the Project Management Committee as 
provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
(e)
That the Borrower has authorized the PCU to continue to operate as 
provided in Section 3.05 of this Agreement. 
(f)
That the Borrower has established the revolving fund mentioned in Section 
3.07 of this Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The date January 19, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1,
Guatemala, Guatemala
Telex:
9207 MINFIP GU
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in   Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
 to be Financed
(1)
Works
1,000,000
 100% of foreign
 expenditures; and
 90% of local
 expenditures
 (2)
Goods under the 
2,700,000
 100% of foreign
Project (other 
 expenditures; and
than under Part B.4 
 90% of local 
of the Project)
 expenditures
(3)
Consultants'
services: 
(a)  under the      8,000,000
 100%
Project (other
than under Parts 
B.4 and C.5
of the Project) 
(b) under Part C.5 
  200,000
 100%
of the Project
(4)
Training under the 
2,500,000
 100%
Project (other than
under Part B.4
of the Project)
(5)
Salaries and        11,500,000
 
 80% until withdrawals
Operating Costs
 under this Category 
 have reached an 
 aggregate amount of
 $2,000,000 equivalent;
 70% until withdrawals 
 under this Category 
Page  9
 have reached an
 aggregate amount of
 $4,500,000 equivalent;
 60% until withdrawals
 under this Category
 have reached an
 aggregate amount of 
 $8,000,000 equivalent; 
 50% until withdrawals
 under this Category
 have reached an
 aggregate amount of 
 $10,500,000 equivalent;
 and 20% thereafter
(6)
Educational Inno-       3,300,000
 90% of local
vations
 expenditures
(7)
Unallocated
3,800,000
TOTAL
           33,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred in connection with the provision of training under the Project, 
including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainees; and
(d)
the term "Salaries and Operating Costs" means: (i) the salaries of the 
teachers to be hired under Part A.3 of the Project; and (ii) the expenditures incurred 
by the Borrower in connection with: (A) the acquisition and utilization of school 
supplies under the Project; (B) the acquisition and utilization of office supplies 
under the Project; (C) the operation and maintenance of the office equipment and 
vehicles to be acquired under the Project; (D) the travel cost and per-diem of the 
personnel of MINEDUC and the PCU designated by MINEDUC to coordinate, monitor and 
supervise the implementation of the Project; and (E) the operation of the PCU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (6) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of  this Schedule for the financing of each Educational Innovation under 
Part B.4 of the Project unless: (i) the fund referred to in Part B.3 of the Project 
has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the corresponding 
Educational Innovation Agreement has been signed as provided in Section 3.01 (f) of 
this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods with the 
exception of: (i) computer hardware and software equipment and vehicles to be awarded 
under Parts B.1 and C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) the first 
contract for printing services of textbooks to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (iii) the first contract for any of the 
goods (other than for printing services of textbooks) to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) 
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for works other than: (i) 
the first contract for works to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the first two contracts for works to be awarded under 
Part C.5 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than $75,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants costing less than $35,000 equivalent; and (e) 
Training and Salaries and Operating Costs as set forth in Categories (4) and (5) of 
the table in paragraph 1 hereof, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand the coverage and equity of 
Basic Education by increasing the enrollment of students in public pre-primary and 
primary schools located or to be located in the Project Area; (b) improve the 
efficiency and quality of Basic Education in the Project Area; and (c) strengthen the 
organization and management of MINEDUC in order to achieve the objectives of the 
Project. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Coverage and Equity 
1.
Establishment of public primary schools in the Project Area and their respective 
COEDUCA in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the COEDUCAs  mentioned in A.1 
above in the areas of administration and management of  primary schools. 
3.
Hiring of teachers for the schools mentioned in A.1 above, including the 
acquisition, distribution and utilization of school supplies for such schools. 
4.
(a) Design, printing and distribution of materials to promote the establishment 
of ISEs and COEDUCAs; and (b) strengthen the current COEDUCAs.   
5.
Carrying out of campaigns to inform the public of, inter alia, the activities 
related to the expansion of Basic Education, including the printing, reproduction and 
distribution of materials required therefor. 
6.
Provision of technical assistance to MINEDUC to identify and select public 
pre-primary and  primary schools located in the Project Area (in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual) in need of afternoon shifts.
7.
Hiring of teachers for the schools mentioned in A.6 above.
Part B:
Efficiency and Quality
1.
Provision of training to teachers and school administrators of  public 
pre-primary and primary schools in the Project Area on: (i) general areas included in 
the curriculum; (ii) bilingual education; and/or (iii) multigrade teaching 
methodologies. 
2.
Design, printing and distribution of textbooks and didactic materials for public 
pre-primary and primary schools in the Project Area. 
3.
Establishment of a fund to finance the carrying out of  Educational Innovations. 
4.
Financing of  Educational Innovations. 
5.
Design and implementation of a national assessment system to monitor 
achievements in the academic areas of mathematics, language, social studies, reading 
and any other academic area to be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to 
the Bank.
Part C: Institutional Strengthening  
1.
Institutional strengthening of MINEDUC to improve its organizational, planning 
and management capacity at the central and departmental levels through the provision 
of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of the goods 
required therefor. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance to school supervisors and principals, teachers 
and stakeholders (of public pre-primary and primary schools located in the Project 
Area) to improve their organizational, participatory and decision-making capacity, as 
the case may be. 
Page  11
3.
Construction and/or rehabilitation of administrative facilities for MINEDUC. 
4.
Strengthening of the PCU to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the 
Project. 
5.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to carry audits under the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment 
Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
Page  12
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months' notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  13
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding  
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for computer hardware and software 
equipment, vehicles, printing services of textbooks, office equipment, school and 
office furniture and didactic materials (excluding school supplies) shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 or more.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Computer hardware and software equipment and vehicles estimated to cost $40,000 
equivalent or more but less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Printing services of textbooks, office equipment, school and office 
furniture and didactic materials (excluding office and school supplies) estimated to 
cost $40,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under Part C.2 (a) and (b) herein 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
National Shopping
(a)
Computer hardware and software equipment estimated to cost less than 
$40,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures; 
(b) printing services of textbooks, office equipment and supplies, school and 
office furniture estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures; 
(c) didactic materials (excluding office and school supplies) estimated to cost 
more than $3,000 equivalent but less than $40,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures; and 
Page  14
(d) except as provided in Part C.4 below, office and school supplies estimated 
to cost  $3,000 equivalent or less per contract shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping, all in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Office and school supplies estimated to cost $3,000 equivalent or less per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines in cases where 
comparison of price quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines may not be obtained. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded under Parts B.1 and C.1 of this 
Section; (b) the first contract to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of this Section for 
printing services of textbooks; (c) the first contract for any of the goods (other 
than printing services of textbooks) to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of this Section; 
(d) the first contract for works to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of this Section; and 
(e) the first two contracts for works to be awarded under Part C.5 of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for information campaigns under Part A.5 of 
Page  15
the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the design and implementation of a national assessment system under 
Part B.5 of the Project, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts B.1 and C.2 of Section II of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, the information relating 
to the selection of consultants, as referred to in paragraph 5.2 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the description of the assignment (terms of reference) and the 
corresponding terms of employment shall be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the 
Page  16
Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  17
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the  Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
