Page  1
December 17, 1998
His Excellency Pedro Miguel Lamport 
Minister of Finance 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle Zona 1 
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re:
GUATEMALA (Basic Education Reform Project)
 
Loan No. 4167 GU
Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated October 20, 1997 entered into between 
the Republic of Guatemala (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Implementation Letter dated October 20, 1997 from 
the Borrower to the Bank.
In response to the Borrower’s request to finance the construction and/or 
rehabilitation of public schools of Basic Education with Loan proceeds, the Bank 
hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter, as follows:
I.
Loan Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 "Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
(a)
'Basic Education’ means pre-primary level and grades 1 through 6 
of primary 
level; 
(b)
‘COEDUCA’ means an administration committee established in 
selected public pre-primary and primary schools with legal personality and 
comprised of the parents of the students attending such school (Comité 
Educativo de Autogestión Educativa); 
(c)
‘COEDUCA Agreement’ means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(d)
‘Decree No. 13-93’ means the Decreto No. 13-93 of the Borrower 
dated March 25, 1993 published in the official gazette of May 17, 1993 which 
established SIF;  
(e)
‘Decree No. 114-97’ means Decreto No. 114-97 of the Borrower dated 
November 13, 1997 and published in the official gazette of December 12,1997 
which established, inter alia, the functions of the ministries of the 
Borrower;
(f)
‘Educational Innovation’ means a specific project which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan consisting of the provision of technical assistance and 
training and/or the acquisition and utilization of goods to carry out 
educational initiatives for the benefit of the students of Basic Education;  
(g)
‘Educational Innovation Agreement’ means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement; 
(h)
‘Eligible Entity’ means a public pre-primary school or a public 
primary school or a COEDUCA or an individual or any other entity which meets 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for the carrying out of an 
Educational Innovation; 
(i)
‘Executive Decree No. 1-94’ means Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 1-94 of 
the Borrower dated January 3, 1994, which regulates Decree No. 13-93; 
(j)
‘Executive Decree No. 165-96’ means Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 165-96 
of the Borrower dated May 21, 1996 which established, inter alia, the 
Page  2
institutional decentralization of MINEDUC;
(k)
‘Executive Decree No. 457-96’ means Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 457-96 
of the Borrower dated October 22, 1996 which provided, inter alia, for the 
restructuring of the National Community-Manage Program for Educational 
Development (Programa Nacional de Autogestión para el Desarrollo Educativo- 
PRONADE) and the establishment of a trust fund in a private banking 
institution in Guatemala;
(l)
‘Implementation Letter’ means the letter of even date herewith 
from the Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Project’s performance 
indicators and targets; (ii) the minimum counterpart funds for the Project; 
and (iii) the personnel to be hired by the PCU, as such letter may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(m)
‘ISE’ means an entity or non-governmental organization acceptable 
to the Bank which provides education services in Guatemala; 
(n)
‘MINEDUC’ means the Ministry of Education (Ministerio de 
Educación) of the Borrower;
(o)
‘Operational Manual’ means the Borrower’s manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) criteria for establishing public 
primary schools and their respective COEDUCAs under Part A.1 of the Project; 
(ii) the criteria for identifying public pre-primary and primary schools in 
need for afternoon shifts under Part A.6 of the Project; (iii) a format 
COEDUCA Agreement; (iv) the terms of reference for carrying out technical 
assistance and training activities under the Project; (v) the criteria for 
approving Educational Innovations; (vi) a format Educational Innovation 
Agreement; (vii) the description of the Project Area; (viii) the procedures 
and the terms and conditions to operate the revolving fund mentioned in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; (ix) the criteria for selecting the public 
schools under Part C.3 (b) of the Project and the environmental guidelines to 
be 
followed during the execution of the works under such Part of the Project; 
and 
(ix) the terms and scope of the ongoing consultation process with the 
local 
communities and/or groups benefited under the Project; 
(p)
‘PCU’ means the Project Coordination Unit established within 
MINEDUC pursuant to Ministerial Resolution (Resolución Ministerial) No. 977 
dated September 13, 1990; 
(q)
‘Procurement Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.10 of this Agreement; 
(r)
‘Project Area’ means the area described in the Operational Manual; 
(s)
‘Project Management Committee’ means the committee referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;  
(t)
‘Quetzal’ means the currency of the Borrower; 
(u)
‘SEP’ means the Borrower’s Executive Secretariat of the Presidency 
(Secretaría Ejecutiva de la Presidencia); 
(v)
‘SEP Implementation Arrangement’ means the agreement referred to 
in Section 
3.01 (h) (i) of this Agreement; 
(w)
‘SIF’ means the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social) 
established pursuant to Decree No. 13-93; 
(x)
‘SIF Implementation Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (h) (ii) of this Agreement;
(y)
‘Trust Fund’ means the account (Cuenta de Fideicomiso) opened by 
the Borrower with the Trustee (as such term is defined herein); 
(z)
‘Trust Fund Agreement’ means the agreement entered or to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Trustee (as such term has been 
defined herein) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(aa)
‘Trustee’ means a private banking institution  operating in 
Page  3
Guatemala and acceptable to the Bank.".
2.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.3 (a), C.4 and C.5 
of the Project through MINEDUC with the assistance and participation of the 
Project Management Committee; and (ii) carry out Part C.3 (b) through SEP and 
SIF, as its agents, pursuant to the provisions of the SEP Implementation 
Arrangement and the SIF Implementation Agreement, respectively, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, 
technical, administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain 
during the implementation of the Project, a management committee (the Project 
Management Committee) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated under Part A.3 of the Project to each COEDUCA 
established under Part A.1 of the Project (as provided in paragraph (d) below 
and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual) 
under 
an agreement (the COEDUCA Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each COEDUCA, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual. 
(d)
(i)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and 
(c) above and unless the Borrower has established an alternative mechanism, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to administer and disburse the funds mentioned 
herein, the Borrower shall operate and maintain during the implementation of 
the Project the Trust Fund in accordance with the corresponding provisions of 
the 
Trust Fund Agreement for purposes of administering and disbursing on 
behalf 
of the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A.1 through 
A.4 of the 
Project and the corresponding counterpart funds for such Parts of 
the Project 
as set forth in the Implementation Letter; and (ii) except as 
provided in 
(i) herein, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
suspend, 
waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Trust Fund Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(e)
In the event that the Borrower has established an alternative 
mechanism as provided in paragraph (d) (i) above, the Borrower shall operate 
and maintain during the implementation of the Project such alternative 
mechanism in a manner and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(f)
For purposes of carrying out Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter into an agreement (the Educational Innovation Agreement) with each 
Eligible Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those 
set forth in the Operational 
Manual.
(g)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each COEDUCA 
Agreement and each Educational Innovation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail 
to 
enforce any COEDUCA Agreement or any Educational Innovation Agreement or 
any 
provision thereof.
(h)
For purposes of carrying out Part C.3 (b) of the Project the 
Borrower shall: (i) enter into an arrangement with SEP (the SEP Implementation 
Arrangement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia, the obligation of SEP to act as an agent of the Borrower in the 
procurement of the works assigned by the Borrower to SEP under such Part of 
the Project and to supervise and monitor the execution of all such works; and 
(ii) 
enter into an agreement with SIF (the SIF Implementation Agreement) under 
terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
obligation of SIF to act as an agent of the Borrower in the procurement of the 
works 
assigned by the Borrower to SIF under such Part of the Project and to 
supervise and monitor the execution of all such works. 
(i)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SIF 
Page  4
Implementation Agreement and the SEP Implementation Arrangement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail 
to 
enforce the SEP Implementation Arrangement or the SIF Implementation 
Agreement or any provision thereof.".
3.
Section 3.10 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the 
Procurement Agreement) with a procurement entity acceptable to the Bank under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of assisting the 
Borrower in the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services under 
Parts A.5, A.6, B, C.1, C.2, C.3 (a), C.4 and  C.5 of the Project.".
4.
Section 5.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified: 
(a)
That Article 33 of Decree No. 114-97 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry 
out Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project. 
(b)
That Executive Decree No. 165-96 or any provision thereof shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in 
such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out the Project. 
(c)
That Executive Decree No. 457-96 or any provision thereof shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in 
such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project. 
(d)
That Decree No. 13-93 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a 
manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of SIF to 
comply with its obligations under the SIF Implementation Agreement.
(e)
That Executive Decree No. 1-94 or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a 
manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of SIF to 
comply with its obligations under the SIF Implementation Agreement. 
(f)
That SIF shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the SIF Implementation Agreement.".
5.
Section 5.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) or (d) or (e) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall been given by the Bank to the Borrower.".
6.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 
1 to this Amendment Letter.
7.
Schedule 2 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Amendment Letter.
8.
Parts C.4 and C.5 of Section I of Schedule 4 are hereby amended to read as 
follows:
"4. Direct Contracting
(a)
Office and school supplies estimated to cost $3,000 equivalent or 
less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, 
may be 
Page  5
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines in cases where comparison of price quotations from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines may not be obtained.
(b)
Works under Part C.3 (b) of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured through direct 
contracting of contractors available in the area. 
5. Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 4 above, works estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to exceed 
$3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.".
II.
Implementation Letter:
Annexes 1 and 2 are amended as set forth in Annexes 3 and 4 to this 
Amendment Letter, respectively.
III.
Effectiveness:
 
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of 
which shall be an original; and (b) become effective as of November 9, 1998 
once the Bank has received: 
(a)
one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter;
(b)
the Operational Manual has been amended in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank;
(c)
the SEP Implementation Arrangement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and SEP; and
(d)
the SIF Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and SIF. Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing 
amendments by signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment 
Letter. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Director 
Central America Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
Pedro Miguel Lamport
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 19, 1999
Loan Allocated
   % of
Page  6
(Expressed in
Expenditures
"Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   8,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 
and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods under the Project
   2,000,000
100% of foreign
(other than under Part B.4
expenditures; and
of the Project)
90% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants'
services: 
(a)  under the Project (other 6,300,000
100%
than under Parts B.4 and C.5
of the Project) 
(b) under Part C.5 of the
  200,000
100%
Project
(4)
Training under the Project 2,000,000
100%
(other than under Part B.4
of the Project)
5)
Salaries and Operating Costs 11,500,000
80% until 
withdrawals
under this 
Category 
have reached 
an 
aggregate 
amount 
of $2,000,000 
equivalent;
70% until 
withdrawals 
under this 
Category
have reached 
an
aggregate 
amount 
of $4,500,000 
equivalent;
60% until 
withdrawals
under this 
Category
have reached 
an
aggregate 
amount 
of $8,000,000 
equivalent; 
50% until 
withdrawals
under this 
Category
have reached 
an
Page  7
aggregate 
amount 
of $10,500,000 
equivalent;
and 20% 
thereafter
(6)
Educational Innovations
   3,000,000
90% of local 
expenditures
(7)
Unallocated
0
  33,000,000".
TOTAL
  ==========
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand the coverage and equity of 
Basic Education by increasing the enrollment of students in public pre-primary and 
primary schools located or to be located in the Project Area; (b) improve the 
efficiency and quality of Basic Education in the Project Area; and (c) strengthen the 
organization and management of MINEDUC in order to achieve the objectives of the 
Project. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Coverage and Equity 
1.
Establishment of public primary schools in the Project Area and their respective 
COEDUCA in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the COEDUCAs mentioned in A.1 
above in the areas of administration and management of primary schools. 
3.
Hiring of teachers for the schools mentioned in A.1 above, including the 
acquisition, distribution and utilization of school supplies for such schools. 
4.
(a) Design, printing and distribution of materials to promote the establishment 
of ISEs and COEDUCAs; and (b) strengthen the current COEDUCAs.   
5.
Carrying out of campaigns to inform the public of, inter alia, the activities 
related to the expansion of Basic Education, including the printing, reproduction and 
distribution of materials required therefor. 
6.
Provision of technical assistance to MINEDUC to identify and select public 
pre-primary and primary schools located in the Project Area (in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual) in need of afternoon shifts.
7.
Hiring of teachers for the schools mentioned in A.6 above.
Part B:
Efficiency and Quality
1.
Provision of training to teachers and school administrators of public 
pre-primary and primary schools in the Project Area on: (i) general areas included in 
the curriculum; (ii) bilingual education; and/or (iii) multigrade teaching 
methodologies. 
2.
Design, printing and distribution of textbooks and didactic materials for public 
pre-primary and primary schools in the Project Area. 
3.
Establishment of a fund to finance the carrying out of Educational Innovations. 
4.
Financing of Educational Innovations. 
5.
Design and implementation of a national assessment system to monitor 
achievements in the academic areas of mathematics, language, social studies, reading 
and any other academic area to be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to 
the Bank.
Page  8
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening  
1.
Institutional strengthening of MINEDUC to improve its organizational, planning 
and management capacity at the central and departmental levels through the provision 
of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of the goods 
required therefor. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance to school supervisors and principals, teachers 
and stakeholders (of public pre-primary and primary schools located in the Project 
Area) to improve their organizational, participatory and decision-making capacity, as 
the case may be. 
3.
(a) Construction and/or rehabilitation of administrative facilities for MINEDUC; 
and (b) construction and/or rehabilitation of schools for Basic Education in the 
Project Area.  
4.
Strengthening of the PCU to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the 
Project. 
5.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to carry audits under the Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.".
