Page  1
September 22, 1997
Mr. José Alejandro Arévalo
Ministro de Finanzas Públicas
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
RE:
GUATEMALA  - Japanese Grant for Basic Education Reform Project
                              Grant No. TF027071
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding two hundred and thirty four thousand United States Dollars ($234,000) (the Grant) 
to the Republic of Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Ian Bannon
Ian Bannon
Acting Director
Central America Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By:
/s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
(Authorized  Representative)
Date:
 October 16, 1997
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a Third Basic 
Education Project (the Project).  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a)
Carrying out of a study to identify and evaluate relevant bilingual education experiences 
in Guatemala for purposes of incorporating them into the implementation plan of the Project.
(b)
Carrying out of two in-country workshops to promote consensus with regard to a national 
bilingual education policy.
(c)
Designing of a scheme to strengthen the capabilities of local school committees to 
manage schools.
(d)
Carrying out a study tour to El Salvador for personnel of the Recipient’s ministry of 
education (MOE), selected in agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, and for purposes of 
evaluating the community-managed school program (EDUCO) in El Salvador.
(e)
Carrying out of advisory services for the modernization team of MOE to assist in the 
development of its sectoral leadership responsibilities.
(f)
Carrying out of workshops for MOE staff, selected in agreement between the Recipient 
and the Bank, at the central and departmental levels and for purposes of organizational development.
(g)
Developing client responsive centers within MOE.
(h)
Developing a communications strategy to disseminate and promote MOE’s educational 
strategy and modernization efforts.
(i)
Carrying out studies to: (i) identify MOE functions with potential to be contracted out to 
the private sector; and (ii) design a plan to merge/reorganize the financial and administration functions of 
Unidad de Planificación Educativa
 (UPE) and 
Unidad de Coordinación de Cooperación Nacional e 
Internacional
 (UCONIME).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against 
any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by February 28, 1998.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to 
Page  3
the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
Guatemala on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Guatemala, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the  Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
