Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18129
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
REGIONAL CEM[ENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 3443-CHA)
June 29,1998
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Yuan (Y)
1989    $1 = Y 3.76
1990    $1 = Y 4.78
1991    $1 = Y 5.32
1992    $1 = Y 5.42
1993    $1 = Y 5.73
1994    $1 = Y 8.50
1995    $1 = Y 8.31
1996    $1 = Y 8.30
1997    $1 = Y 8.30
1998    $1 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATCC    -  Anhui Tongling Cement Company
CBMA    -  China Building Materials Academy
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -  Financial Rate of Return
GOC       -  Government of China
HCIDI   -  Hefei Cement Industry Design Institute
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR       -  Implementation Completion Report
IDC       -  Interest During Construction
MIS       -  Management Information System
NCC       -  Ningbo Cement Company
NSPCLC  -  Ningbo Star Port Cement Limited Company
NCIDI    -  Nanjing Cement Industry Design Institute
PCG       -  Project Coordination Group
RCIP      -  Regional Cement Industry Project
SABMI   -  State Administration for Building Material Industry
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
SOE       -  State-Owned Enterprise
TCCCL   -  Tongling Conch Cement Company Limited
TCIDI    -  Tianjin Cement Industry Design Institute
tpy       -  Tons per year
ZCC       -  Zhongguo Cement Company
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager    Hoon Mok Chung, EASPS
Task Manager      Amanda S. Carlier, Private Sector
Development Specialist, EASPS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE  ...................................................... ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
A. Project Background ..........................1
B. Project Objectives And Description ....................                     .............................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ....................                     .............................3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........                         ..........6
E. Project Sustainability .................................................. 1
F. Bank Performance ................................................. 12
G. Borrower Performance ................................................. 13
H. Assessment of Outcome .......................                                                           13
I. Future Operation ....................... 14
J. Key Lessons Learned .......................                                                             15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .............................                                                            17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................. 17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................                    ........................... 18
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................. 20
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ................. 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Projecit Implementation ......................................,.21
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations ....................................                       22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .................................... 22
Table 8A-1: TCCCL: Project Costs .....................................                                    23
Table 8A-2: TCCCL: Project Financing .................................... 23
Table 8B-1: NSPCLC: Project Costs ....................................                                    24
Table 8B-2: NSPCLC: Project Financing .................................... 24
Table 8C-1: ZCC: Project Costs ....................................                                       25
Table 8C-2: ZCC: Project Financing .................................... 25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................... 26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................                                  27
Table 11: Compliance with Operaltional Manual Statements ...............................  29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................                               29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................... 29
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE M]EMOIRE .                                        .................................... 30
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRI13UTION TO THIE ICR ................................ 42
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON ICR .....................................                                             45
ANNEX D: PROJECTED FINANCIAIL STATEMENTS ....................................  47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATIONI COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
REGIONAL CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN; 3443-CHA)
P'REFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Regional Cement
Industry Project (RCIP) in China, for which Loan 3443-CHA in the amount of $82.7
million equivalent was approved on March 17, 1992, and made effective on January 5,
1993. The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing
date of June 30, 1996. Final disbursement took place on December 31, 1997 at which time
a balance of $0.35 million was canceled. The loan supported the construction of new
cement production and distribution facilities and the rehabilitation of an existing medium-
size cement plant. The project also had a technical assistance loan of $3.6 million to
strengthen the capabilities of four cement research and design institutes and to undertake a
study on small-scale cement plants.
The ICR was prepared by Amanda S. Carlier (Task Manager) in the Private Sector
Development Unit (EASPS) of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and S.A.B.R. Thalakada,
(Consultant/Industry and Finance). Rui Ma, Operations Assistant in the Resident Mission
of China, participated in the ICR mission and contributed to the mission's work. Hoon
Mok Chung, Manager, EASPS and Yukon Huang, Director, Resident Mission China
reviewed the ICR. The borrower provided comments that are included Appendix B to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's ICR mission in May 1998. It is
based on the material gathered by the mission in the field and those in the project file. The
borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing relevant data and
information, contributing views expressed in the mission's aide memoire, preparing its
own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the
draft ICR.






v -
CHINA
REGIONAL CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAJN 3443-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank's first operation in the industrial sector was a loan for the Fertilizer
Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project in 1985. It was followed by loans for the
Shanghai Machine Tools (1987), Gansu Provincial Development Project (with an industry
component) (1987), Fertilizer Rationalization (1987), Pharmaceuticals (1988), Tianjin
Light Industry Project (1989), Rural Industrial Technology (1990), Shenyang Industrial
Reform Project (1994), and Chongqing [ndustrial Reform Project (1996). In addition, the
Bank has provided five credit lines to ithe China Investment Bank (CIB) (1983-89) for
onlending to small- and medium-size projects in the industrial sector. The Regional
Cement Industry Project (RCIP) was one of the earlier projects undertaken at regional
level to implement the overall developrnent program and strategy for specific industrial
subsectors.
2.    The RCIP ($82.7 million) focused on the installation of a modem high-grade
cement manufacturing plant with a capacity of 1.2 million tons per year (tpy) of clinker at
Tongling in Anhui Province; construction of a 600,00 tpy clinker grinding capacity at
Ningbo in Zhejiang Province to process clinker to be shipped from Tongling and
supported by a river and coastal bulk transportation system; replacement of a wet-process
cement production unit (with a 150,000 tpy capacity) by a 640,000 tpy dry-process
cement unit at Zhongguo, Nanjing Municipality (the physical construction/rehabilitation of
cement plants and distribution facilities accounted for 96 percent of the loan proceeds);
and a technical assistance component (loan of $3.6 million) to upgrade equipment and
skills of four cement industry research and design institutes and to undertake a study on
small-scale cement plants.
3.    The main objective of the project was to help China implement its strategy for
modernization of the cement industry, and specifically to (a) expand cement production
capacities based on economically viable technologies and scales; (b) improve product
quality and production efficiency of existing cement plants in accordance with the
country's increasing demand for high grade cement;' (c) strengthen local capabilities for
research, technology development, and the design of plant and equipment at four of the
country's cement industry research ancl design institutes; and (d) address the issue of
economic efficiency and pollution relating to the majority of the country's small cement
By normal international convention, high-grade cement refers to cement having an average 28-day
compressive strength of 525 kg/cm2 and ateve, and suitable for structural construction uses.



- vi -
plants. A related goal under the Project was to help China to introduce the "joint-stock"
ownership concept for major government-sponsored large investments.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Most of the objectives have been met but the desired results have not yet been
achieved. The three cement plants have been established and commenced commercial
production successfully in January 1997. They incorporate all the modernization features
as planned in terms of capacity size, rotary kiln-based technology used, high quality of
cement produced (525), relatively small and well-trained manpower of about 1,300
persons, energy efficiency, pollution control, and safety standards. A bulk transportation
system has been established to facilitate pooling of segmented cement markets for more
optimal operations and for marketing of products on an interprovincial basis at market
prices. The plant using the polluting and energy-wasting wet processes has been
rehabilitated into a more efficient dry-process plant. Two of the companies have
introduced new shareholders and professional management.
5.    The technical assistance has been implemented. It has helped the four research and
design institutes to upgrade their equipment and technical skills and expand their services
to the cement industry. The study on small-scale cement plants has also been completed. It
has made some important recommendations to rationalize and upgrade the small-scale
cement plant industry, although the delay in finalizing the study has undermined its
contribution to the timely enforcement of an appropriate policy and regulatory regime for
the cement industry and in addressing the problem of the small scale cement plants.
6.    The implementation of both project and technical assistance components were
delayed by about two years, one year caused by the delay in loan effectiveness and other
constraints, and the other year due to delays in project implementation, problems with
machinery and shortage of counterpart funds. The completion of the study on small-scale
cement plants took a much longer time: it was completed in April 1998 as against the
original date of December 1993. Consequently, the RCIP was closed on the extended date
of December 31, 1997. The original closing date was June 30, 1996. Of the total loan of
$82.7 million, disbursements have been made up to $82.35 :million and $0.35 million
canceled.
7.    The delay in project implementation was due to a number of reasons. These are:
(a) unfamiliarity with international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures (83 percent of
the Bank loan); (b) inexperience in designing, coordinating and matching equipment to be
supplied locally with that of equipment to be imported; (c) operational problems with the
foreign-supplied equipment (it is unclear whether this was due to the equipment itself, or
the installation and use thereof); (d) the long time taken to obtain additional funds to
finance the cost increases resulting from these delays; (e) the need to extend the closing
date to allow payments to be made to equipment suppliers upon the completion of
performance warranties, which could take place only after the equipment had begun
trouble-free operations; and (f) overall inexperience in the management of large-size
technology projects by the subborrowers and related agencies.



- Vii -
8.    Due to these delays, the project came to be implemented during a regime of high
inflation. These price increases, in turn, led to price increases in building material and in
labor costs, causing the project costs to increase in respect of civil work, local equipment
and imported machinery. The project cost increases ranged from 61 percent in Anhui
Tongling Cement Company (ATCC) to 95 percent in Zhongguo Cement Company (ZCC)
and 300 percent in Ningbo Cement Company (NCC). Moreover, the project cost increases
were financed mainly by additional borrowings, increasing the debt components of project
financing by 48 percent (ATCC), 171 percent (NCC) and 194 percent (ZCC). The interest
rates also went up during this period. The increased project costs and borrowings caused
the production costs of cement of the three companies to increase considerably by way of
higher depreciation and interest costs. Accordingly, the three cement companies are
finding it difficult to market their cement at the relatively lower selling prices, in a market
as determined by companies that do nolt have such high production cost structures. As a
consequence, the three companies are expected to incur losses, albeit at declining levels,
for a long time to come: ATCC for seven years (1997-2003), NCC for five years (1997-
2001) and ZCC for the next 10 years and beyond. These losses are being financed mainly
by short-term borrowings and creditors., which would further increase the interest costs,
thus further eroding their competitiveness in the market. In this increased project cost and
loss-making situation, the economic rate of return (ERR) and financial rate of return
(FRR) of the three companies are low compared to appraisal estimates. Specifically, the
updated ERRs are 9 percent for ATCC and NCC compared to 18.6 percent at appraisal
and 2 percent compared to 16.8 percent at appraisal for ZCC. The updated FRR are 4
percent for ATCC, 0 percent for NCC: and 0 percent for ZCC compared to appraisal
estimates of 12.4, 16.3 and 11.9 percent, respectively.
9.    Because of this poor financial position, unless corrective measures are taken, the
three companies would not be able to comply with two of the three financial covenants
agreed to with the Bank. Current projections indicate that the companies would be in
compliance in respect to the debt to equity ratios, but not with the covenants on the
current ratio and debt service coverage ratios. These adverse current ratios show that the
current assets of the cement companies are not sufficient to discharge current liabilities.
The adverse debt service coverage ratios show that they would not be able to repay debt
through internally generated cash.
10.   While the project's physical objectives of constructing, equipping and producing
high-quality cement at the three cement production facilities have been fulfilled, the poor
financial situation of these cement companies raises questions as to the long-term
sustainability of the operations. At present, the cement plants are being kept in operation
by infusions of short-term credit and postponement of bills payable. If the banks stop
financing these companies during this loss-making period, in the absence financial
restructuring, these companies would not be able to sustain themselves. The situation for
ZCC is the most serious, with projections indicating that it would be incurring losses for
more than 10 years. Given the trend of financial intermediaries in China to increasingly
make lending decisions strictly on the basis of financial returns, there is a risk that the
banks would not be willing to continue to finance ZCC losses with additional credit. At
that point, unless corrective measures have been taken, ZCC may be forced to close down.



- viii -
11.   The factors that have affected the achievement of the desired results of the project
include project design, government policy and project management. In regards to project
design, with the benefit of hindsight, there are two key areas in which the project was
flawed. Firstly, given the dynamic competitive nature of the cement market, the investment
plan should have been structured to support a much shorter gestation from construction to
the commercial operation of the cement plants. The second design flaw concerns the
component for the rehabilitation of the old state-owned enterprise (SOE) ZCC: this
subproject involved the upgrading of the plant through the installation of a modem dry-
processing cement line with a capacity of 640,000 tpy. Based on industry standards in the
early 1990s, a design capacity of 640,000 tpy was already below what was considered to
be an economically viable technology and scale at that time. Moreover, the subcomponent
needed to support a much more comprehensive enterprise reform effort for ZCC. This
component focused too heavily on the upgrading of its physical technology, without the
accompanying efforts needed to fundamentally change the organizational philosophy and
move the SOE from a production-oriented to a market-oriented enterprise.
12.   On the policy side, a more favorable policy environment for the financial and
industrial sectors could have led to improved subproject implementation and performance.
In particular, financial policies that promoted rather than constrained the growth of capital
markets could have enabled the three cement plants to raise additional equity and reduce
their heavy debt burdens. Similarly, on the industrial policy side, a regulation to encourage
the use of a higher quality of cement (equivalent to the international standard) would have
provided a more favorable environment for the cement plants.
13.   At the project management level, greater efforts should have been made to contain
cost overruns, especially in view of the high inflation during the project implementation
period. This is particularly relevant for the additional costs associated with implementation
delays that could have been avoided. A clear example here is the 36 months to process an
ICB package for ATCC to the contract signing stage, compared to the few months that it
should have taken. In general, it appears that the project managers were more technical
and production-oriented than financially prudent. Therefore, the need to cut costs,
improve competitiveness, and promote marketing of products appears to have received
less than the desired attention.
14.   The Bank played an active role in project preparation assistance, appraisal and in
supervision of project implementation. In retrospect, closer attention to project costing
and financing during an inflationary period, and greater assistance for project designing,
matching of local equipment with that of imported ones, and application of ICB
procedures would have been helpful. The Bank's overall performance has been rated as
deficient for project preparation and marginally satisfactory for supervision.
15.   The State Administration for Building Materials Industry (SABMI) gave full
commitment to the project. It formed a Project Coordination Group (PCG) to review
progress on project implementation, the budget, and procurement on a regular basis and
coordinate efforts to resolve any problems as well as to report regularly to the Bank on
project progress. Ideally SABMI would have moved faster in securing additional



- ix -
counterpart funding. Of key importance, however, was the instrumental role SABMI
played in attracting a strategic investor for two of the three cement companies. SABMI
efforts in relation to the technical assistance components are satisfactory, although it could
have been more active in ensuring the timely delivery of the small-scale cement plant
study. Overall, the performance of the borrower has been rated as marginally satisfactory
for preparation, implementation, and deficient for covenant compliance and operation.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
16.   The project and technical assistance components have been implemented despite
delays and cost overruns. Under the current circumstances, the three cement plants would
not be profitable for many years to come and would not be able to discharge current
liabilities from current assets and service their debt from internally generated cash.
Moreover, the Bank's covenants in respect of the current and debt service coverage ratios
would not be complied with for a long; time. The poor financial situation of the three
cement plants raises questions concerning their long-term sustainability, given the risk that
the banks may not continue to finance the companies' losses over the next few years.
Also, the desired impact of the study on small-scale cement plants has not been achieved
due to delay in its completion. On the other hand, the technical assistance has helped to
upgrade the equipment and skills of the four research and design institutes, which will
continue to provide a useful service to the development and modernization of the cement
industry. Under the circumstances, the outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory
at present.
17.   The project provided an opportunity for officials associated with the project; i.e.,
from SABMI, three cement companies, four research and design institutes, and financial
intermediaries involved, to learn new skills and methods in project preparation, appraisal,
financing, implementation and application of ICB procedures. This expertise and
experience, particularly in handling large-size industrial projects, would become useful in
their future project activities.
18.   There are four main lessons to be learned from this operation:
Projects to support subborrowers operating in highly competitive and dynamic
markets need to be designed, appraised and managed to minimize potential risks and
to reduce the project implementation period.
This is to reduce the likelihood of ilwo risks that often undermine the subprojects'
eventual viability, namely, missed market opportunity and significant cost overruns.
This RCIP is an example of a long-gestation industrial project designed for a market
environment that inevitably had changed dramatically by the time the subprojects came
into operation. The practical implications are that the subprojects' investment plans
should allow for rapid implementation, and be sufficiently flexible to quickly draw in
additional resources, if needed and justified, with limited delay.



- x -
*  Projects need to include specific measures to deal with potential sources of project
implementation delays.
For example, where locally fabricated equipment is to be used in conjunction with
imported machinery, some form of technical assistance should be given to match and
assemble them.
*  If the Bank is to be involved in SOE reform at the individual enterprise level, the
sponsored activities need to go well beyond upgrading the physical equipment and
technology.
In the case of China, SOE reform needs to decisively deal with existing social and
financial liabilities and help introduce a new management philosophy to move the SOE
from production orientation to market orientation. Without such a fundamental shift in
organizational philosophy, the impact of expensive investments in modern technology
is greatly compromised, as is illustrated by ZCC in this project.
*  An appropriate sectoral and regulatory policy environment is a prerequisite for
investment projects.
In this case the three cement plants have been forced to compete in a market
dominated by inexpensive low-grade cement, where little price distinction is made for
cement quality due to the lack of government regulation enforcing the use of high-
grade cement and discouraging polluting cement plants.



CHINA
REGIONAL CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 3443-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMILEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJEICT BACKGROUND
1.    China is the largest producer and consumer of cement in the world. Cement is the
single most important product in the building materials industry in China. In 1989, it
generated 28 percent of the value of all building materials produced in China and
employed 1 million workers. At that time, the cement industry consisted of about 6,600
plants with a total production capacity of 210 million tons per year (tpy). The
consumption and production were projected to increase to 320 million and 300 million tpy
by 2000. Despite the availability of large quantities of good-quality raw materials such as
limestone and coal, China was expected to remain a net importer of cement in the 1990s.
2.    In response to a request from the Government of the People's Republic of China
(GOC), the Bank carried out a study on China's cement industry in 1985. The study
showed a cement sector characterized by low-quality products, low production efficiency,
suboptimal production facilities, high pollution and high energy wastage. This situation
had arisen mainly because of two reasons: Firstly, the use of outdated technologies based
on wet-process rotary kilns or shaft kilns; and secondly, as much as 82 percent of the
cement plants comprised small plants with shaft kilns and producing less than 200,000 tpy
per plant of mostly lower-grade cement (325). The proliferation and dispersion of the
small plants resulted from transport constraints, segmented markets, and the lack of
investment coordination across local jurisdictions.
3.    The Government, realizing these weaknesses, designed a strategy for the cement
industry. Its main objectives were to: establish an efficient cement industry based on the
country's rich limestone and coal resources and low labor costs; and meet the growth in
demand in the next two decades without resorting to imports. In accordance with these
objectives, the Government's strategy for sector development during the Eighth Five-Year
Plan (1991-95) envisaged: (a) expanding the production capacities for high-grade and
special cement using up-to-date technology; (b) modernizing and rehabilitating medium-
size plants to use the dry process; (c) gradually upgrading the technology of selected small
plants; (d) phasing out most of the miniplants with capacities below 20,000 tpy; and (v)
improving capabilities for research, dlesign and manufacturing of cement-related
equipment, processes and facilities. Further, the shaft kiln-based cement plants' share of
total production was expected to be reduced from the present 82 percent to 75 percent by
2000.



- 2 -
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.    The Bank considered the broad outline of the Government's strategy for the
cement sector as essentially sound. Therefore, based on the findings of its study, the Bank
proceeded to formulate the Regional Cement Industry Project (RCIP) aimed at helping
China implement its strategy for modernization of the cement industry. Accordingly, the
key objectives of the RCIP were to (a) expand cement production capacities based on
economically viable technologies and scales; (b) improve product quality and production
efficiency of existing cement plants in accordance with the country's increasing demand
for high-grade cement;2 (c) strengthen local capabilities for research, technology
development, and the design of plant and equipment at four of country's cement industry
research and design institutes; (d) address the issue of economic inefficiency and pollution
relating to the majority of the country's small cement plants. A related goal under the
project was to help China to introduce the "joint-stock" ownership concept for major
governmnent-sponsored large investments.
5.    In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank's RCIP supported three components: (a)
the Tongling cement production and distribution component ($53.9 million), comprising
(i) a loan of $45.9 million to the Anhui Tongling Cement Company (ATCC) to establish a
modem and integrated cement plant with 1.2 million tpy of clinker capacity, a cement-
grinding line that could process 690,000 tpy of high-strength cement, and a clinker and
bulk cement loading terminal at Tongling in Anhui Province to facilitate interprovincial
marketing in Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces; and (ii) a loan of $8.0 million to the Ningbo
Cement Company (NCC) to establish a cement-grinding plant to process 600,000 tpy of
clinker, equipped with a clinker receiving terminal at Ningbo; (b) the Zhongguo Plant
rehabilitation component involving a loan of $25.2 million to Zhongguo Cement Company
to convert a medium-size cement plant with a production capacity of 480,000 tpy cement
to a modem dry-process technology to improve production efficiency, product quality,
and emission control and to replace two of the five wet-process production lines,
equivalent to a capacity of 150,000 tpy of cement by a 640,000 tpy modem dry-process
line; and (c) a technical assistance component of a loan of $3.6 million to strengthen local
capabilities for research, technology development, and the design of plant and equipment
at four of the country's cement industry research and design institutese and to undertake a
study of measures to improve production efficiency, product quality and pollution
emissions in small-scale cement plants. The RCIP was appraised in October 1989,
reappraised in February and October 1991 and approved by the Board in March 1992.
6.    The original project objectives are considered to be both clear and straightforward,
but they also imply a magnitude of project impact well beyond that that could reasonably
2 By normal international convention, high-grade cement refers to cement having an average 28-
day compressive strength of 525 kg/cm2 and above, and suitable for structural construction uses.
3 The four institutes are the Tianjin Cement Industry Design Institute (TCIDI), China Building
Materials Academy (CBMA), Nanjing Cement Industry Design Institute (NCIDI), and Hefei Cement
[ndustry Design Institute (HCIDI).



- 3 -
have been expected under the actual project design. For example, the objective of
expanding cement production needs to be put in perspective: the project design allowed
for an increase of cement production capacity of less than 2 million tpy, which is the
equivalent of less than 1 percent of the country's production in the year of Board approval
(1992) or about 0.5 percent in the year that the commercial production financed under the
project actually started. Similarly, in regard to the second project objective of improving
product quality and production efficiency of existing cement plants, the project design only
allowed for direct assistance to one of 56 existing medium-size plants at the time
(although indirect benefits to other plants were realized through strengthening the design
institutes). If the project was expected to serve as an "experiment" or model that could
have been subsequently replicated in other cement plants, then this approach should have
been built in to the project design from the outset. The most overstated or "unrealistic"
objective relates to the fourth key objective of addressing the issue of the economic
inefficiency and pollution relating to a majority of the country's small cement plants. At
the time of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) more than 82 percent of China's total
cement production came from about 6,500 small-size plants. To "address" this issue
implies a major undertaking and substaritially more than the use of $150,000 of loan
proceeds toward a study. To make this objective more realistic, the project design needed
to go much beyond just an initial study.
7.    The objectives of the RCIP were clearly important for China's cement industry
strategy. They were also generally useful for the country's industry strategy as a whole,
and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, especially in the sense that the objectives
included the introduction of the "joint-stock" ownership concept for major government-
sponsored large investments, and touched on SOE reform.
8.    From the point of view of the main implementing agency, the State Administration
for Building Material Industry (SABMI), which carried the primary responsibility for
monitoring project implementation and overall coordination, the realization of these
objectives was highly demanding. The implementation arrangements required SAMBI, a
central government ministry for the building materials industry, to perform the very time-
consuming and challenging task of working across many provincial and municipal
jurisdictions and coordinate the efforts of a multiplicity of parties, including banks, to
address difficult eventualities such as raising substantial amounts of additional counterpart
funds. Hence, in a sense, the design of the project to encourage interprovincial
cooperation in cement production was also the source of its greatest risk, given the
inherent delays involved in reaching wide cooperation across regions by a central agency
with limited capacity, in terms of funding and human resources.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    Three Cement Plants. All of the three cement companies supported by the
project, together with their related transportation systems, have now been established. The
three plants completed trial production by the end of 1996, commenced commercial
production successfully in January 1997 and are expected to attain full capacity utilization
in the case of ATCC by the second year ('1998) onward, NCC by the third year (1999)



- 4 -
onward and ZCC by the fourth year (2000) onward. The three plants incorporate the
features as planned in terms of capacity size, rotary kiln-based technology used, high
quality of cement produced (525), relatively small and well-trained manpower of about
1,300 persons, energy efficiency, pollution control, and safety standards. The project has
thus contributed to the realization of the first two key project objectives: the expansion of
cement production in China through its financing the two greenfield cement production
facilities and the rehabilitation of an existing cement plant; and the improvement of
product quality and production efficiency of existing cement plants in accordance with the
country's increasing demand for high-grade cement. However, given the poor financial
situations now facing the cement companies supported by the project, and especially their
massive debt burdens (particularly in the case of the Zhongguo plant), it is uncertain
whether this increased cement production capacity will prove ito be economically viable
over time (this is discussed in further detail later).
10.   A related aim of the project included greater regional coordination, which has been
accomplished through the establishment by ATCC of a bulk transportation system to
facilitate pooling of currently segmented cement markets for more optimal operations and
for marketing of products on an interprovincial basis at market prices. Similarly, the NCC
project is a good example of encouraging interprovincial cooperation to establish
economically viable cement plants and discouraging excessive preoccupation with self-
sufficiency on a provincial basis. It has been designed to transport clinker made in a raw
material resource-rich (limestone and coal) area (by ATCC in Tongling) to be ground into
cement and sold in a cement demand-rich area (by NCC in Ningbo). Further, ZCC
provides a useful example for rehabilitation of old plants and their conversion from the
polluting and energy-wasting wet processes into more efficient dry-process plants.
11.   Another explicit project objective was to help China develop and experiment with
the "joint-stock" ownership system. This has been accomplished through the experience of
coverting two of the cement facilities supported with loan proceeds (ATCC and NCC)
into joint-stock companies under the Company Law 1994, following a delay of about two
years. ATCC and NCC have brought in new shareholders and professional management,
which are serving as models for institutional development and public sector management.
They are now called Tongling Conch Cement Company Limited (TCCCL) and Ningbo
Stair Port Cement Limited Company (NSPCLC), respectively. Their corporatization is
serving as useful experiences for corporatizing other government industrial operations.
12.   Technical Assistance. The  technical assistance  has been  implemented
successfully. It has helped the four research and design institutes to upgrade their
equipment and technical skills. This has enabled them to expand their research work on
more efficient use of raw material such as limestone and coal and their design work to
produce more efficient cement manufacturing machinery. Their strengthened operations
have also enabled them to increase their services to the cement industry in general in terms
of research and analytical work, on a fee basis, to improve cement manufacturing
processes and raw material usage as well as to operate on a commercial basis.



- 5 -
13.   Small-Scale Cement Plants StiLidy. The study has also been completed. The
report on the study has come up with sorne important recommendations to rationalize and
upgrade the small-scale cement plant industry. These recommendations could be used to
help the Govemment in its ongoing plans to discourage inefficient, highly polluting and
energy-wasting cement plants and to formalize a policy framework to guide the
development of a more efficient and viable cement industry for the country. A significant
outcome of the study is expected to be a policy pronouncement by the government to
establish a higher quality standard for the: cement to be used in the country against which
small, medium and large cement plants could compete for market share on the basis of
quality of cement.
14.   However, the delay in completing the study has undermined its contribution to the
timely enforcement of an appropriate policy and regulatory regime for the cement
industry. The study was originally expected to be completed by end-1993, but in practice
was finalized by mid-1998. By the end of 1997 the production of cement in China had
increased to about 510 million tpy, compared with about 360 million tpy in 1993.
Significantly, the quantity of cement produced by small-scale cement plants had increased
by about 106 million tpy over this period, meaning that the proportion of cement produced
from the small-scale and frequently inefficient and polluting plants had only declined
marginally. If the study had been completed on the time schedule planned, the Government
could have used its findings not only to address the issue of the small-scale productive
capacity existing at that time, but also to have ensured that the subsequent new investment
made in small-scale cement plants over this period meet desired efficiency and
environmental standards. The study's delay, apparently for the want of a relatively small
amount of counterpart funding, meant that its contribution to improving the structure of
the cement industry, during the period of the greatest increase of cement production
capacity, has undermined its potential contribution. This also implies that one of the key
project objectives of addressing the issue of economic inefficiency and pollution relating to
a majority of the country's small cement pilants has not yet been realized. Moreover, while
the enforcement of the study's findings should be worthwhile in the future, it seems that
the greatest opportunity to ensure high standards through regulation at entry of new small-
scale cement production may have been mnissed, with industry projections now indicating
that the increase in China's cement production capacity is leveling off.
15.   Based on above, the RCIP, albeit wvith a considerable delay in implementation, may
be said to have contributed to the realization of four of the five project objectives, and
with the expectation that the fifth object:ive, relating to the issue of small-scale cement
plants, should be achieved in the future. It should be stressed, however, that if appropriate
measures are not taken in the near future to resolve the financial problems currently
threatening the longer-term sustainability of the cement facilities financed under the
project, the long-term achievement of one, if not two, of the development objectives of
increasing cement production capacity and improving efficiency of the existing plant could
be compromised (see sections D and E below).



- 6 -
1). IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   Loan Effectiveness and Implementation Schedule. The Board approved the
loan on March 17, 1992. It was expected to become effective on June 17, 1992 and to
close on June 30, 1996. The effectiveness was delayed by 7 months to January 5, 1993
and the closing by 18 months to December 31, 1997. The main reason for the delay in loan
effectiveness was due to the longer-than-expected time taken to finalize the six subsidiary
loan agreements (three between GOC and the three provincial/municipal governments
involved and the other three between the three provincial/municipal governments involved
and the three companies (ATCC, NCC and ZCC).
17.   On the other hand, loan closing was delayed due to a number of reasons. These
are: (a) the major portion of the Bank loan (83 percent) required international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures and this took a considerably longer time than expected for
finalization (for example, ATCC took 36 months between advertising for ICB packages
and signing of supply contracts as against 8 months estimated at appraisal) because of the
inexperience of the subborrowers, financial intermediaries and importing corporation in
ICB procedures; (b) time taken due to inexperience in designing, coordinating and
synchronizing equipment to be supplied locally with that of equipment to be imported; (c)
problems with foreign-supplied equipment (although it is unclear whether the problems
resulted purely from the equipment, or from the installation and use thereof), which took
considerable time for resolution; (d) the cost increases caused by delays in project
implementation required increased funding, which took time to be obtained from
provincial/municipal governments and financial intermediaries; (e) the need to extend the
closing date to allow payments to be made to equipment suppliers upon the completion of
performance warranties, which could take place only after the equipment had begun
trouble-free operations; and (f) overall inexperience in the management of large-size
industrial projects by the subborrowers and related agencies.
18.   Subproject Implementation and Performance. The implementation of all three
project components (greenfield cement facilities, rehabilitation of ZCC and technical
assistance) was considerably delayed. The seven-month delay in the loan becoming
effective, combined with other initial constraints, caused a delay of about a year in the
startup of project implementation. Thereafter, with respect to the cement production
facilities, a further delay of another year took place due to the time taken to order the
equipment, resolution of problems associated with the delivery/operation of foreign-
supplied equipment and the need to look for additional funding sources to finance the cost
increases caused by these delays. Consequently, the commencement date of trial
production was revised twice, once from the original date of the third quarter of 1994 to
the beginning of 1996, and again thereafter to the third quarter of 1996. The technical
assistance (TA) component, originally scheduled to be completed by the end of 1994, was
finally completed in June 1997 (delay of two and one-half years) because of the long time
taken to shop around for the required equipment. The study on small-scale cement plants
tookc the longest time to complete, from the original completion date in December 1993 to
April 1998 (delay of over four years) due to constraints such as counterpart funding



- 7 -
sources and the long time taken to resolve differing views with the foreign consultant on
findings and recommendations of the study.
19.   The delays in project implementation have undoubtedly affected subproject
performance, and more generally, realization of the project objectives. With respect to the
three cement production facilities, these delays led to massive increases in project costs,
which in turn were financed mainly by additional borrowings, which together have further
undermined the plants' competitive position. The two key and interrelated factors that
have affected the performance of the cement companies subprojects are (a) increase in
project costs and borrowings and (b) the competitive cement market.
*  Increased Project Costs and Borrowings. Due to the delays in getting the plants
started, the three plants came to be implemented during a regime of high inflation
(1992-96). The rise in prices increased the cost of building material and labor costs
almost tripled. Also, the Yuan 'was devalued from Y 5.36 at appraisal in 1991 to
Y 8.30 to the US dollar in 1997. These price increases caused the project costs to
increase with respect of civil works, local equipment and imported machinery. The
increased project costs were financed mainly by increased borrowing-to a lesser
extent by TCCCL and NSPCLC. The interest rates also went up during this period
(the assumed interest rate at appraisal for most domestic loans was about 8.3 percent
and a small portion of loans to ZCC at 14.4 percent, which increased to a high of 15.0
percent beginning in 1995). The recurrent losses are also being financed by additional
borrowings. As a consequence of the increased project costs and borrowings, the
production costs of cement being produced by the three cement plants have increased
considerably by way of higher depreciation and loan interest costs and thereby eroding
their competitiveness in the market. At these high production cost structures, the three.
cement plants are finding it difficult to compete with the market prices as determined
by producers without such high cost structures.
*  Cement Pricing in the Market. The cement market and especially the pricing of
cement has changed dramatically since project effectiveness. At the beginning of the
1990s, when the project was designed, about 22 percent of the total cement
consumption and about 74 percent of the high-grade cement was sold at controlled
prices under the state and provincial allocation plans. Since that time, the cement
market has been steadily liberalized with the removal of price controls. There has
consequently been a massive supply response to the strong demand for cement as one
of the "building blocks" for C:hina's rapid growth, with the increase in China's
production capacity growing at a rate much greater than anticipated at project
conception. As a result, the industry is now highly competitive and continues to be
dominated by small-scale cement plants, which require limited investment and produce
relatively low-cost cement (and often of a lesser quality). The three cement plants
financed under this project are finding it hard to compete in this market. The cost of
production of the three plants is reportedly about equal to the selling price of the
small-scale producers [i.e., about. Y 280 ($33.75/ton)], albeit for a higher quality of
cement. It appears that the market makes little price distinction between low-grade
cement and high-quality cement of the type produced by the project's subborrowers.



- 8 -
While the low price of cement and lack of price distinction for quality appears to be
largely a result of competitive market forces, anticipated government policy to
encourage the use of better-quality cement in the country (through establishing an
upgraded standard for cement equivalent to the international standard) and discourage
polluters may drive up the market price of cement. On one hand, such policies would
increase the production costs of the many small-scale plants (as they upgrade to meet
pollution standards) and, on the other hand, strengthen the demand for higher-quality
ciement. At the end of 1997 only about 19 percent of cement consumption in China
was high-grade cement (albeit up from about 12 percent in 1990). If the demand for
high-grade cement is increased through the anticipated government regulation, this
could drive up the cement price and place the cement plants financed under the project
in a better competitive position. Such a regulation would create a level playing field for
cement plants of all sizes to compete equally in the market on the basis of quality of
cement.
20.   As a result of these two above-mentioned key factors, all three of the cement
plants are currently recording losses and, based on their recent projections, would
continue to have losses for several years into the future. In this loss-making situation, if
corrective measures are not taken in the near future, the three companies would find it
difficult to comply with most of the financial covenants as required by the Bank. In
accordance with the project documents, the three companies were to maintain the
following financial ratios: (a) a long-term debt to equity ratio of 75:25 or better; (b) a
current ratio of 1.2 or better; and (c) a debt service ratio of at least 1.2 times. The financial
position as well as the covenants' compliance status of the three companies are as follows:
TCCCL (formerly ATCC). The delays in project implementation caused the project
cost to increase from Y 920.7 million at appraisal in 1991 to Y 1,480.3 million in
1998, an increase of about 61 percent. The increased project cost was financed by a
debt of Y 920.3 million (compared to a debt of Y 620.7 million at appraisal) and
equity of Y 560 million, giving a debt/equity ratio of 62:38 compared to 68:32
estimated at appraisal. This has been made possible by the new equity provided by the
Conch Group. The increased project cost and borrowings have, in turn, increased the
cost of production of clinker/cement by way of higher depreciation and interest costs.
.The interest cost per ton has increased further owing to the additional short-term
borrowings made to finance the recurring losses. Based on the new financial
projections, TCCCL would be making losses in the first seven years (1997 to 2003) of
operation. Due to this financial position, TCCCL would not meet the covenants on the
current and debt service coverage ratios. The current ratio covenant would not be
complied with until 2009 due to the large short-term borrowings to finance the
recurrent losses and to repay long-term debt. The debt service coverage ratio covenant
would also not be complied with until 2003 due to the servicing burden of these large
borrowings. TCCCL's current assets would not be sufficient to discharge its current
liabilities and it would also not be able to meet its debt service obligations through
internally generated funds as indicated by the adverse current and debt service
coverage ratios. The debt/equity ratio is being kept within the covenanted limit by
repaying long-term debt through short-term borrowings.



- 9 -
NSPCLC (formerly NCC). The delays in project implementation caused the project
cost to increase from Y 140.4 million at appraisal to Y 421.8 million in 1998, an
increase of 300 percent. The increased project cost was financed by debt of Y 271.8
million (compared to a debt of Y 100.4 million at appraisal) and equity of Y 150
million (compared to Y 40.0 million at appraisal). The additional equity came mainly
from the Conch Group, as in the case of TCCCL. Thus, the present debt/equity ratio is
about 64:36 as against 68:32 at appraisal. The increased project cost and borrowings
have, in turn, increased the production cost of cement by way of higher depreciation
and interest costs. The interest cost component of the production cost of cement has
increased further as a result oiF the additional borrowings needed to finance the
recurrent losses. According to the new financial projections, NSPCLC would be
making losses for five years (1997-2001). Due to this financial position, unless
corrective measures are taken, NSPCLC would not comply with the covenants on the
current and debt service coverage ratios. The current ratio covenant would not be
complied with during the foreseeable future; i.e., up to 2007 and beyond. It is in an
adverse position as a result of the large short-term borrowings to finance the recurrent
losses and to repay long-term debt. Due to the heavy debt service burden, the debt
service coverage ratio covenant would not be met in the foreseeable future; i.e., up to
2007 and beyond. NSPCLC's current assets are insufficient to discharge its current
liabilities and it would also not be able to meet its debt service obligations through
internally generated funds as indicated by the adverse current and debt service
coverage ratios. The debt/equity ratio is being kept within the covenanted limit by
repaying long-term debt through short-term borrowings.
* ZCC. The delays in project implementation caused the project cost to increase from
Y 420.7 million at appraisal to Y 821.6 in 1998, an increase of 95 percent. The
increased project cost was financed by a debt of Y 664 million (compared to a debt of
Y 226.6 million at appraisal) and equity of Y 157.6 million. The increased project
costs and borrowings have, in turn, caused the production cost of cement to increase
considerably by way of higher depreciation and loan interest costs. The production
cost of cement increases further clue to the additional interest costs resulting from the
further short-term borrowings being made to finance the recurrent losses. According
to the new financial projections, ZCC would make losses for the next 10 years and
beyond. Due to this poor financial position, the current ratio covenant would not be
complied with up to 2007 and beyond. The debt service coverage ratio covenant
would not be complied with as it continues to be negative up to 2007 and beyond.
Short-term borrowings and postponement of bills payable are enabling ZCC to finance
its losses and repay long-term debt. Thus, the long-term debt to equity ratio remains
within the Bank covenanted limit. The adverse current ratios indicate that ZCC's
current assets are not sufficient to discharge its current liabilities. On the other hand,
the negative debt service coverage ratio shows that it would also not be able to repay
debt (interest and principal on both Bank and domestic debt) through internally
generated cash. ZCC has had the additional burden of carrying with it an old cement
plant with encumbrances in terms of redundant labor (about 2,000 whereas the new
plant requires only about 410 persons), attendant social welfare payments and high



- 10-
energy costs. Two of the five wet processes of this old plant were to have been phased
out but only one has been phased out, so far. ZCC is also yet to put in place a
managemen information system (MIS) as agreed with the Bank.
21.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. The factors that have affected the
achievement of the desired results of the project include original project design,
government policy and project management: While some of these factors were subject to
the control of the implementing agent, many were beyond its direct influence.
Project Design. In regard to project design, with the benefit of hindsight, there are
two key areas in which the project was flawed. First, the whole investment plan of the
project was based on limited and single-scenario market analysis for the cement
industry. Fundamental assumptions were made about the rate of growth of domestic
cement production capacity and the structure of the industry that, with the passage of
time, have proven to be erroneous. For example, the total cement production in China
was projected to be 300 million tpy by 2000: whereas in reality total production
exceeded 500 million tpy by 1997. While it is not reasonable to expect project
designers to be able to see into the future, the fundamental project analysis should
have been built on more solid market analysis that covered a number of scenarios of
different market prices and competitive situations. This would have highlighted the
need for a much shorter project implementation period for constructing and operating
the cement plants, in recognition that they were to operate in a dynamic competitive
environment. The project investment plan, in turn, should have been designed to
ensure that the plants could be in operation in the minimum time possible, with more
upfront investment. Moreover, concrete steps should have been taken to address
possible sources of project implementation delays, given the financial consequences
associated with delays in project implementation (for example, the provision of
technical assistance to prepare procurement documentation prior to project approval
would have an easy way of avoiding several months of delay). Unfortunately, this
cement project is another example of a long-gestation industrial project designed for a
market environment that inevitably had changed dramatically by the time the
subproject came into operation.
The second design flaw related to this project concerns the component for the
rehabilitation of the old SOE ZCC. There are two major considerations here: (a)
the component involved the upgrading of the plant through the installation of a
modern dry-processing line cement line with a capacity of 640,000 tpy. However,
even based on industry standards in the early 1990s, a design capacity of 640,000
tpy was below that considered to be an economically viable technology and scale
(international cement industry standards in the early 1990s indicated that viable
capacities for cement plants was at least I to 1.5 million tpy). The other
consideration with respect to ZCC relates that the broader issue of SOE reform in
China: the approach taken in this component was basically to incorporate a new
higher-technology subproject (in this case, a $25 million rotary kiln) into an
existing SOE already burdened with high labor and social costs, outdated and
inefficient technology and traditional SOE management and operating philosophy.



In other words, the new facility was to subsidize the operations and burdens of
the existing SOE. While the project design did touch on the need to reduce the
burdens associated with the old operation (for example, by stating that two of the
five wet-processing cement lines should be closed down), it did not go nearly far
enough in advocating fundamental enterprise reform. For example, the design
should have allowed the imnmediate separation of the social liabilities such as
schools and medical facilities linked with ZCC. But perhaps of greater
significance, the project design should have recognized the major efforts needed
to bring in new management philosophy to move the thinking from a production-
oriented enterprise to a market-oriented one (requiring more than limited
management training). As is now evident in other attempts of SOE reform,
without such a fundamental shift in organizational philosophy, the impact of
expensive investments in moclern technology is greatly compromised.
*  On the policy side, a more favorable policy environment for the financial and
industrial sectors could have led to improved subproject implementation and
performance. In particular, financial policies that promoted rather than constrained the
growth of capital markets could have enabled the three cement plants to raise
additional equity and reduce their heavy debt burdens. Similarly, on the industrial
policy side, a regulation to encourage the use of a higher quality of cement (equivalent
to the international standard) would have provided a more favorable environment for
the cement plants.
*  At the project management level, greater efforts should have been made to contain
cost overruns, especially in view of the high inflation during the project
implementation period. This is particular relevant for the additional costs associated
with implementation delays that could have been avoided. A clear example here is the
36 months to process an ICB package for ATCC to the contract signing stage: the
whole bid evaluation process is usually completed in a few months. In general, it
appears that the project managers were more technical and production-oriented than
financially prudent. Therefore, the need to cut costs, improve competitiveness, and
promote marketing of products appears to have received less than the desired
attention. Further, the delay in the availability of additional funds required to finance
the increased project costs compounded the problem of overcapitalization.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The major issue relates to the sustainability of the three cement plants. They are
faced with problems of heavy debt burdens, cost and price structure and, in the case of
ZCC, with added burdens of redundant labor and excessive social costs. As a result, they
are expected to make losses for a long time. This is because of their relatively high
production costs and the consequent inability to compete with the relatively low market
prices as determined by producers without such high production costs. Infusions of short-
term credit and postponement of bills payable to finance losses and repay long-term debt
are keeping the three of them in operations, more so in the case of ZCC. There is the risk
that the banks and creditors may close the tap on the further flow of credit during these



- 12 -
loss-making years. If corrective measures are not taken in the meantime, these cement
companies would not be able to sustain themselves. Consequently, the overall
sustainability of the three cement plants and their expected contributions to increasing
cement production is uncertain. On the other hand, the technical assistance has helped to
upgrade the equipment and skills of the four research and design institutes. The upgraded
institutional structure has enabled them to expand their research work on more efficient
use of raw materials and undertake design work to produce more efficient cement
manufacturing machinery and processes. They have also been successful in expanding their
services to the cement industry on a fee basis and thereby becoming self-reliant for their
operations. These institutes will continue to provide a useful service to the industry.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   The Bank has been actively involved in all phases of the project cycle. The Bank's
role has been to help GOC identify the key problem areas and develop operational and
policy prescriptions to resolve them. To this end, the Bank prepared a Regional Cement
Sector Study and a Cement Machinery Manufacturing Sector Study in 1984/85. These
studies have provided the basis for dialogue with the Government on sector strategy,
policies, and priorities, as well as for identification of this project. The project was the first
Bank operation in the Chinese cement sector. The Bank was actively involved in the
preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision of project implementation. In order to
facilitate ICB, the Bank ensured that the bidding documents for the major packages were
prepared with technical input from international consultants. Thereafter, the Bank
followed up implementation through regular field visits and providing comments on
progress reports submitted by the Government. Of special significance is Bank efforts to
help subborrowers raise additional counterpart funds to finance project cost increases.
24.   In retrospect, there were some core flaws in the design of the project that should
have been picked up by the Bank at the appraisal stage. The Bank staff should have also
taken steps to minimize the three risks that caused the most problems for the project. First,
the Bank, prior to Board submission of the project, could have been more active in
ensuring that an appropriate sectoral policy regime was in place. Second, the investment
plan should have accommodated much faster project implementation, and included a
higher price contingency, knowing that the project was going to be implemented in a high-
inflation environment. Third, in the case of ZCC, the new cement line should not have
been merged with the old one, knowing that it was difficult to reduce redundant labor and
social benefits in China's context. Their merging placed ZCC in a disadvantaged position
right from the start. Although the Bank gave assistance for ICB, it appears that that was
not sufficient. Perhaps, further assistance in ICB and in plant design for equipment to be
fabricated locally might have reduced implementation delays to some extent. The Bank's
overall performance has been rated as satisfactory for project identification and
preparation, deficient for project appraisal and marginally satisfactory for supervision.



- 13 -
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   SABMI gave full commitment to the project. It took primary responsibility for
monitoring project implementation and for overall coordination of the construction work.
A Project Coordination Group (PCG) was set up within SAMBI to review progress on
project implementation, the budget, and procurement on a regular basis and coordinate
efforts to resolve any problems. In addition, the three companies formed Project
Management Teams with responsibilities for planning and finance, machinery and
equipment, materials supply, civil construction, and administration. SABMI's PCG
coordinated implementation of the technical assistance in collaboration with the project
managers of the four design institutes. These groups/teams worked closely with Bank
staff. SABMI's assistance in raising additional counterpart funds to meet cost increases
and in resolving disputes with foreign machinery suppliers were noteworthy.
26.   Ideally, SABMI would have (a) moved more quickly to raise the additional funds
required to finance the cost increases in order to reduce the delays in project
implementation, and (b) obtained much more additional counterpart funds over and above
what was raised, particularly in the form of equity and long-term funds, in order to
enhance the cement plants' prospects for viable operations and to enable them to comply
with the Bank's covenants on current and debt service coverage ratios. However, the
difficulty of the task facing SABMI has to be taken into account. In order to raise
substantial additional resources SABMI needed to reach a consensus across provincial and
municipal borders and with a multiplicity of concerned parties, including financial
institutions. Moreover, SABMI's instrumental role (together with the provincial
government) in bringing in a strategic investor with its own management team to the
Tongling and Ningbo facilities-the Conch Group Company, an SOE with successful
experience in cement production and marketing-has proven critical in addressing the
technical and financial problems facing the plants in the mid-1990s.
27.   One area that SABMI coulcl have played a more active role, especially in the
preparation phase, was ensuring that the three cement companies had closer involvement
with the designing of their respective projects. Such an arrangement would have led to a
better understanding and feedback on the designing of their respective projects, which
would have helped to reduce the implementation delays. It appears that the design
institutes responsible for their designing more or less worked in a vacuum. SABMI's role
with respect to the technical assistance components was satisfactory, although SABMI
should have provided greater support to promoting the study on small-scale cement plants
and thus avoided the several years' delay on this component. Overall, the performance of
the borrower has been rated as marginally satisfactory for preparation and implementation,
and deficient for covenant compliance and operation.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28.   The three components of the project have been implemented despite delays and
cost overruns. The implementation of the project is considered satisfactory as it has
created a useful example for the modernization of China's cement industry in terms of



- 14-
optimal capacity size, technology (for TCCCL), cement quality, relatively low labor
content, environmental standards, and facilitation of interprovincial cooperation in cement
production and marketing. The four research and design institutes have been strengthened
by way of equipment and skills, which will enable them to increase their services to the
cement industry. However, for reasons discussed in detail above, the sustainability of the
three cement plants is uncertain. Also the desired impact of the study on small-scale
cement plants could not be achieved due to delay in its completion.  Under the
circumstances, the outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory at present.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
29.   The project has provided an opportunity for officials of SABMI, the three cement
companies, the four research and design institutes and the related financial intermediaries
to learn new skills and methods of project design, preparation, appraisal, implementation,
overall management and in application of ICB procedures. This expertise and experience
will be useful for application in their future activities. The services of the four research and
design institutes will continue to be useful to facilitate the establishment of a modern and
efficient cement industry in the country.
30.   The Cement Companies. The major concern is the unprofitable operations of the
three cement plants, which are being sustained by additional financing. If these financing
sources dry up before the plants operations have reached the break-even point, still several
years away, they would not be able to sustain themselves. To avoid this scenario and to
ensure compliance with the Bank's financial covenants, actions to return the plants to
profitable operations as soon as possible need to be taken by the concerned parties
(namely, SABMI, the three cement plants and the related financial intermediaries). Various
work-out options that would improve the operational efficiency and relieve the debt
servicing burden faced by the cement companies, particularly ZCC, should be considered.
Infusion of new equity capital or the conversion of debt into equity could be important
elements in a financial restructuring, but these actions should be pegged to strict
performance benchmarks that the companies are required to meet in order to "qualify" for
ongoing support. The need for strictly enforcing performance goals, or other
conditionality should also apply to proposals to reschedule debt to assist the companies,
such as placing much of the short-term debt and other creditors' debt on a long-term basis
(while keeping the debt/equity ratio within the Bank-covenanted limit) in order to bring
the curTent ratio within the Bank-covenanted limit. Such arrangements would enable
TCCCL, NSPCLC and ZCC to discharge their current liabilities from current assets and
service their debt from internally generated funds. SABMI and the management of each of
the plants are very aware of the financial difficulties facing the plants, the urgent need to
find solutions thereto. Each plant is actively investigating options to address these
problems, such as ZCC's efforts to establish a joint venture with an investor from Hong
Kong.
31.   On a more general level, the three cement plants need to take steps to improve
their overall competitiveness through reducing costs, strengthening their marketing and
sales activities and improving efficiency. In particular, it was agreed that the three cement



- 15 -
plants, i.e., ZCC, TCCCL and NSPCLC, would work toward qualifying for ISO 9002 by
December 31, 2000. This would ensure that they continue to produce a good-quality
clinker/cement and maintain the highest standards of efficiency in terms of operations and
management. TCCCL could also work toward being included in the East Asia cement grid
operating throughout the region.
32.   The Four Research and Dlesign Institutes. With respect to the four cement
research and design institutes, it was agreed that they would achieve the following
performance indicators by December 31, 2000:
*  The Tianjin Cement Industry Design Institute's (TCIDI) income from their services of
raw material analysis and improving designs of cement plants for greater efficiency in
energy consumption, pollution control and manufacture of more efficient cement
plants are expected to double from Y 60 million in 1997 to about Y 120 million in
2000.
*  The China Building Materials Academy (CBMA) indicated that, in the year 2000, at
least 10 to 15 percent of bulk cernent transport would be using their low-cost version
of the mobile load scale for transporting bulk cement.
*  The Nanjing Cement Industry Design Institute (NCIDI) would complete the research
work and begin commercial marketing of the use of the lower grade of coal as fuel for
cement plants by the year 2000.
*  By year 2000, the Hefei Cement Industry Design Institute (HCIDI) would
commercialize the use of coal in powder form as fuel for cement plants, which will
reduce the amount of coal used by about 15 to 20 percent.
33.   Small-Scale Cement Plants 'itudy. SABMI would implement as soon as possible
the appropriate recommendations of the study, particularly one relating to the need to
establish a regulation for builders to use a higher quality of cement equivalent to the
international standard.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.   There are four main lessons to be learned from this operation:
*  Projects to support subborrowers operating in highly competitive and dynamic
markets need to be designed, appraised and managed to minimize potential risks and
to reduce the project implementafion period
This is to reduce the likelihood of two risks that often undermine the subprojects'
eventual viability. The first risk relates to the subborrower missing the market
opportunity for which it was designed and being forced to subsequently compete in a
market environment very different to the one expected at the project's conception.
This cement project is an example of a long-gestation industrial project designed for a



- 16 -
market environment that inevitably had changed dramatically by the time the
subproject came into operation.
The second risk relates to the increased risk of cost overruns in long-gestation
projects. The practical implications are that the subprojects investment plans should
allow for rapid implementation, and be sufficiently flexible to quickly draw in
additional resources, if needed and justified, with limited delay. Consideration should
be given at the project design phase of alternative/additional financing sources that
could be tapped if need be. Clear analysis at the project preparation stage of trigger
points at which cost overruns are likely to make the subprojects nonviable and further
investment unjustifiable should also be explicit in project documentation. Moreover,
under an environment of high inflation, the price contingency provided should be much
higher.
* Related to the above point, another lesson is that more measures to address potential
sources of project implementation delays (and hence subsequent cost overruns) need
to be included in the project design and early supervision phases.
Specific opportunities for improvement in the case of this project include (a) the
cement plant operators should have been more closely involved with the designing of
their respective projects. Such an arrangement would have encouraged better
understanding of their projects from the beginning, as well as provided opportunities
for feedback, which would have facilitated project implementation; (b) where locally
fabricated equipment was to be used in conjunction with imported machinery, some
form of technical assistance should be given to match and assemble them.
-If the Bank is to be involved in SOE reform at the individual enterprise level, the
sponsored activities need to go well beyond upgrading the physical equipment and
technology.
In ithe case of China, SOE reform needs to decisively deal with existing social and
financial liabilities and help introduce a new management philosophy to move the SOE
from that of a production oriented enterprise to a market oriented one. Without such a
fundamental shift in organization philosophy, the impact of expensive investments in
modern technology is greatly compromised, as is illustrated by ZCC in this project.
* An appropriate sectoral and regulatory policy environment is a prerequisite for
investment projects.
In this case, the three cement plants have been forced to compete in a market
dominated by inexpensive low-grade cement, where little price distinction is made for
cement quality due to the lack of government regulation enforcing the use of high-
grade cement and discouraging polluting cement plants.



- 17-
PART I:: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial     Partial    Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                              X
Sector policies                                     X
Financial objectives                                             X
Institutional development                           X
Physical objectives                    X
Poverty reduction                                                                   X
Gender issues                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                                             X
Environmental objectives               X
Public sector management               X
Private sector development                                       X
B. Project Sustainability                Likely               Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                                 X
Preparation assistance                                         X
Appraisal                                                                           X
Supervision                                                    X
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                                    X
Implementation                                                 X
Covenant compliance                                                                 X
Operation (if applicable)                                                           X
E. Assessment of Outcome    Highly Satisfictory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 18 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                       Approval     Status
Ln. 2226-CHA/    To assist the China Investment Bank (CIB) in meeting the   1983  Completed
Cr. 1313-CHA     need for foreign exchange for industrial financing, improv-
First Industrial    ing investment efficiency, and organizing and improving
Credit Project   CIB's capacity for project design, selection, appraisal and
($71.5 million)    technology transfer.
Ln 2434-CHA/    To continue the institutional building efforts of the first  1984  Completed
Cr. 1491-CHA     project, including expanding branches, assist in appraisal of
Second Industrial  larger projects and meet CIB's resource requirement
Credit Project
($183.2 million)
Ln 2658-CHA/    To assist CIB in financing productive facilities and resources   1986  Completed
Cr. 1663-CHA     in China to contribute to the country's economic and social
Third Industrial    development; to provide CIB with funds needed to develop
Credit Project   its operations and carry out its Charter and Statement of
($103.6 million)   Policy Strategy.
Ln 2783-CHA/    To assist the Government in promoting and implementing   1987  Completed
Cr 1763-CHA      technology upgrading and modemization in industry, to
Fourth Industrial   build up sound institutions and procedures for project
Credit Project   appraisal and investment financing and to improve interme-
($300 million)   diation practices; especifically to continue institutional
assistance to CIB and provide a general line of credit for
industry.
Ln. 2784-CHA     To assist the Shanghai Municipality to achieve product   1987  Completed
Shanghai Machine  rationalization and product upgrading, modernization and
Tool Project     rehabilitation of manufacturing facilities; expansion of the
($100 million)   design and engineering capabilities; and improvements in
management systems for the machine tool sector within
Shanghai.
Ln. 2838-CHA     To improve the production efficiency of existing medium-   1987  Completed
Fertilizer Rationali- size plants through plant renovations and upgrading tech-
zation Project   nologies; expand phosphate production to help achieve a
($97.4 million)  more balanced nutrient input; and improve institutional
capacity through the introduction of more modern systems
and techniques in financial and operational management.
Ln. 2943-CHA     To assist the Government to expand pharmaceutical pro-   1988  Completed
Pharmaceutical    duction by using modern technology; improve the quality of
Project         the products and introduce Good Manufacturing Practices
($127 million)   (GMP) in selected enterprise and training programs; and
improve the quality, maintenance, marketing and man-
agement in the pharmaceutical industry.



- 19 -
Year of
Loan/Credit Tile                        Purpose                        Approval      Status
Ln. 3075-CHA      Continuation of activities under the Fourth Industrial Credit  1989  Completed
Fifth Industrial  Project
Credit Project
($300 million)
Ln3274/ Cr2186/   To assist the Chinese Govemment's ongoing Spark Program,   1990  Completed
JGF27230-CHA    which seeks to upgrade standards of technology and
Rural Industrial    management of China's rapidly growing runal township and
Technology (Spark) village enterprises. In tOree representative areas, the project
Project           supports demonstration enterprise modernization subprojects
($114.3 million)   in rural industries, upgrades the "Spark training program"'
for rural enterprise staif and helps an existing technology
information system reorient its focus to small enterprises.
Ln. 3582-CHA      To assist the local authorities in Southern Jiangsu to   1993   to be completed
Southern Jiangsu   strengthen their environmental planning and management          6/30/2001
Environmental     capabilities and to cariy out priority initiatives in the regional
Protection Project  environmental strategy and action plans in an efficient and
($250 million)    effective manner.
Ln. 3788-CHA      Support Shenyang Municipal Government's reform program    1994   to be completed
Shenyang Industrial through the joint SMG/Bank monitoring of implementation        06/30/2001
Project           of a Reform Action Program and the provision of technical
($175 million)    assistance and training to underpin key aspects of SMG's
reorganization. The prDject also supports two investment
components: industrial iestructuring and corporatization, and
environmental protectio;n.
Ln. 4045-CHA      To assist Chongqing Municipality to: (a) achieve a signifi-   1996   to be completed
Chongqing Indus-  cant reduction in pollution and restructure productive facili-   12/31/2002
trial Reform Project ties from its most polliuting industries, iron and steel; (b)
($170 million)    establish a strategy and prepare a long-term plan to achieve a
major reduction in pollution for the whole sector, and (c)
initiate a pilot effort to assist industrial enterprises in other
industrial sectors to restructure their productive facilities,
control pollution and transform themselves into modem
corporations.



- 20 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle           Date planned            Date actual
Identification                       1985                    1985
Appraisal                        October 1989           October 1989
Post-appraisal(s)               February 1991         February 1991 and
October 1991
Negotiations                   January 27, 1992        Janualy 27, 1992
Board presentation              March 17, 1992         March 17, 1992
Signing                          April 7, 1992           July 9, 1992
Effectiveness                    June 17, 1992         January 5, 1993
Project completion            December 31, 1995        October 31, 1996
Loan closing                     June 30, 1996        December 31, 1997
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($million)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate                  0.50    11.30    58.20    77.70    82.70       -
Actual                              0.00     1.14    11.79    61.51    69.89    82.39    82.50
Actual as % of appraisal estimate   n.a.    10.00    20.00    79.00    85.00      n.a       n.a.
Date of final disbursement                December 10, 1997



- 21 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR                         Target Date       Actual Date
A. Tongling Component
1. TCCCL
Advertisement of major ICB packages                    April 30, 1991  February 15, 1990
Completion of site preparation                          July31, 1992   October31, 1992
Signing of supply contract for major equipment packages    December 31, 1991  June 30, 1993
Completion of civil works                               June 30, 1994     May 31, 1996
Start of equipment erection                           January 1, 1993   October31, 1994
Completion of equipment erection                   September 31, 1994     July 15, 1996
Commissioning                                      November 30, 1994   October 3 1, 1996
Start of commercial production                        January 1, 1995    January 1, 1997
2. NSPCLC
Advertisement of major ICB packages                     May 30, 1992   January 15, 1992
Completion of site preparation                       October 30, 1993 December 31, 1993
Signing of supply contract for majorequipment packages  March 31, 1991    March 31, 1994
Completion of civil works                               July 31, 1994     July31, 1996
Start of equipment erection                         February 15, 1993     July 15, 1995
Completion of equipment erection                   November 30, 1994    March 31, 1996
Commissioning                                         October 1, 1994   October 15, 1996
Start of commercial production                        January 1, 1995    January 1, 1997
B. Zhongguo Component (ZCC)
Advertisement of mnajor ICB packages                   April 30, 1992  February 24, 1992
Completion of site preparation                     September 30, 1992 September 30, 1992
Signing of supply contract for major equipment packages  March 15, 1992 September 30, 1993
Completion of civil works                               June 30, 1994 December 31, 1996
Start of equipment erection                             April 1, 1993      June 1, 1995
Completion of equipment erection                   September 31, 1994     May 15, 1996
Commissioning                                      November30, 1994   October 31, 1996
Start of commercial production                        January 1, 1995    January 1, 1997
C. Technical Assistance Component
Commencement of training/invitation of foreign experts  January 1, 1992    June 1, 1994
Commencement of the study                           September 1, 1992    October 1, 1994
Completion of the study                               December 1993      April 30, 1998



- 22 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Capacity Utilization            Production
I. Key operating indicators in the  Estimated    ACTUAL         Estimated    ACTuAL
SARlPresident's Report
1. TCCCL
First Year                              60            50            720          600
Second Year                             75           108/a          900        1,300
Third Year                              90           125/a         1,080       1,500
Fourth Year onward                     100           125/a         1,200       1,500
2. NSPCLC
First Year                              60            26            414          180
Second Year                             75            85            518          587
Third Year                              90           100            621          690
Fourth Year onward                     100           100            690          690
3. ZCC
First Year                              60            30            582          300
Second Year                             60            75            582          727
Third Year                              80            90            776          875
Fourth Year onward                     100           100            970          970
Production ('000 tons cement/year)
/a With adjustments to the equipment, TCCCL expects to produce more than the present capacity in the
second year and thereafter.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study             Purpose as defined at Appraisal   Status         Impact of Study
Efficiency and Environ-  Improve production efficiency and  Completed  The recommendations of the
mental Assessment of    control pollution emissions of small  with delay  study are likely to influence
Small Cement Plants    cement plants                                  Government's ongoing
efforts to develop a policy/
regulatory framework to
rationalize and upgrade the
cement industry.



- 23 -
TABLE 8A- 1: TCCCL: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                                Local  Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign    Total
Land                                  2.0              2.0           9.1              9.1
Civil works                          52.8             52.8          56.2             56.2
Machinery/equipment                  23.0   31.2      54.2          36.7    39.5    76.2/a
Engineering/management training      11.0    3.1      14.1
Base Cost Estimate           88.8   34.3    123.1          102.0    39.5   141.5
Physical contingency                  8.9    3.4      12.3
Price contingency                     7.3    3.5      10.8
Installed Costs             1O5.0   41.2    146.2          102.0    39.5   141.5
Working capital                       3.3              3.3           1.9              1.9
Interestduringconstruction            7.8    4.1      11.9          25.9      8.2    34.1
Commitment fee                                0.6      0.6                   0.8      0.8
Total Cost                  116.1   45.9    162.0/b        129.8    48.5    178.3/b
/a Includes cost of engineering/management training.
/b The Yl$ exchange rates used were 5.3 and 8.3 for 1991 and 1998, respectively.
TABLE 8A-2: 1TCCCL: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate          Actual/atest estimate
Source                               ;Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Equity:                               52.8              52.8      67.5               67.5
IBRD Loans:                                     45.9    45.9       0       45.9      45.9
Domestic Loans                        63.3              63.3      62.3      2.6      64.9
Total Financing                    116.1      45.9   162.0/a   129.8    48.5      178.3/a
/a The Y/$ exchange rates used were 5.3 arid 8.3 for 1991 and 1998, respectively.



- 24 -
TABLE 8B-1: NSPCLC: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign    Total
Land                                0.6             0.6          1.6              1.6
Civil works                         3.8    2.4      6.2         18.4             18.4
Machinery/equipment                 5.3    3.2      8.5         11.8      7.1    18.9/a
Engineering/management training     1.4    0.4      1.8
Base Cost estimate         11.1    6.0    17.1           31.8     7.1    38.9
Physical contingency                1.1    0.6      1.7
Price contingency                   1.1    0.5      1.6
Installed Costs            13.3    7.1    20.4           31.8     7.1    38.9
Working capital                     2.7             2.7          2.2              2.2
Interest during construction        0.9    0.8      1.7          8.9      0.8     9.7
Commitment fee                             0.1      0.1                   0.1     0.1
Total Cost                 16.9    8.0    24.9/b         42.9     8.0    50.9/b
/a Includes cost of engineering/management training.
/b The Y/$ exchange rate used were 5.3 and 8.3 for 1991 and 1998, respectively.
TABLE 8B-2: NSPCLC: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
Source                Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Equity:                              7.0               7.0      18.1              18.1
IBRD Loans:                                    8.0     8.0               8.0       8.0
Domestic Loans                        9.9              9.9      24.8              24.8
Total Financing              16.9      8.0    24.9/a    42.9     8.0       50.9/a
/a The Y/$ exchange rate used were 5.3 and 8.3 for 1991 and 1998, respectively.



- 25 -
TABLE 8C-1: ZCC: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Lpj)raisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                              Local  Foreign  Total          Local   Foreign  Total
Land                                 2.4              2,4           3.3              3.3
Civil works                         15.8             15.8          29.4             29.4
Machinery/equipment                 10.6   15.5      26.1          25.3    21.7    47.0/a
Engineering/management training      8.9    2.3      11.2
Base Cost Estimate          37.7   17.8      55.5          58.0    21.7    79.7
Physical contingency                 3.1    1.8       4.9
Price contingency                    3.7    2.5       6.2
Installed Costs             44.5   22.1      66.6          58.0    21.7    79.7
Working capital                      1.2              1.2           7.5              7.5
Interest during construction         2.8    2.6       5.4           8.6      3.0    11.6
Commitment fee                               0.5      0.5                   0.1      0.1
Total Cost                  48,5   25.2      73.7/b        74.1    24.8      98.9/b
/a Includes cost of engineering/management training.
/b The Y/$ exchange rate used were 5.3 and 8.3 for 1991 and 1998, respectively.
TABLE 8C-2: ZCC: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appmisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Source                 Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Equity:                               33.4               33.4      18.9               18.9
IBRD Loans:                                     25.2     25.2              24.8      24.8
DomesticLoans                         15.1               15.1      55.2              55.2
Total Financing               48.5      25.2     73.7/    74.1    24.8        98.9/a
/a The Y/$ exchange rate used were 5.3 and 8.3 for 1991 and 1998, respectively.



- 26 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
ATCC              NCC             ZCC
FRR (SAR) %                       12.4             16.3             11.9
FRR (Updated) %                    4.00             0.0             0.0
ATCC & NCC (combined)              ZCC
ERR (SAR) %                               18.6                       16.8
ERR (Updated) % /a                         9.0                       2.0
/a Separate updated ERRs for ATCC and NCC are 10 and 6 percent, respectively.



- 27 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
LOan                Covenant   Presert
Agreementle   Sedion     tye       Status            Description of covenant                       Comments
Borrower shall cany out tedcnical assistance
LA       3.01(a)      04          C     through SABML and provide fiunds, facilities,
senicEs_ and otesources required as
needer
3.01(c)      12         C     Borrower shall allow the NBCC and ATCC to
inplemnent the mrheolding sestem as provided
in the Ningbo Charter and Tangling Charter.
3.02(a)      03         C     The boNower shall relendthe proceeds ofthe
loan o1(1) $S8,000,000 to NBCC through
Ningb) Municipality
3.02(d)      03         C     The bclower shall mnake $3,600,000 out of
the proceeds ofthe Loan available to the
Project Institute through SABMI on terms and
condiions satisfacto,y to the Bank.
4.01(b)      01         C     The borrower shall have project records and
accounts, including those for the Special
Accounits, for each fiscal year audited. Furnish
to the E3ank not later than six months alter the
end of the fiscal year, the audited reporL
3.03       05          C     The borrowershall maintain the Project
Coordnation Group established within
SABMI to coordinate the imfplementation of
the projedL
2.02       10          C     Procunrment of goods and consultant's services
shalt be in accordance with principles and
procedures saisfactoiy to the Bank.
2.05        10         C     Each comnpany shall exchange views with the
Bank regards to the progress of the project and
pronsiy infonrn the Bank of any condition
which ilterferes with the progess ofthe project.
3.04        12         C     NBCC and ATCC shall inforn the Bank
promptly of any changes in the Ningbo Charter
orthe Tongling Charter, thejoint venture
agreent or their respective nanagement
structur.
4.01       02          C     Companies shal have records, accounts, and
financial statements for each fiscal year
audited Funnish audit report together with
audited fGancial statements to the Bank not
later than six mnnths aflter the end of each fiscal
year.
4.02(i)     02         NC    Companies shall not incur additional debt  TCCCL will not comply with this ratio unlil
unless reaonable forecast shows net revenues  year 2003 (it ranges between 0.63 and 0.64
would provide a debt service coverage ratio of fino 1997 to 2003) and meets the covenat in
not less ihan 1.2 times.                2004 and thereater, NSPCLC will not comply
with this covenarA in the foreseeable future (it
ranges between 0.2 and 0.4 during 1998 to
2007); and ZCC will not comnply with this
covenant in the foreseeable future. This ratio
remains negative. The Bank has requested the
thee companies and SABMI to increase their
equity to lessen the debt sevice burden
4.02(ii)     02         C     Maintain a debt equity ration of no more than



- 28 -
Loan               Covenant   Present
Agreement Section      type      Status           Description ofcovenant                      Comments
75/25.
4.02(iii)   02        NC    Companies shal maintain curent ratio of no   TCCCL will not comply with this ratio until
less than 1.2                         2009 (it ranges between 1.02 and 0.09 from
1997 to 2008) and becomes 1.4 in 2009 and
improves further thereafter); NSPCLC will not
comply with this ratio (it worsens from 0.75 in
1998 to 0.50 in 2007), and ZCC will not
comply with this covenant in the foreseeable
futuret (iwots   fmom 0.65 in 1998 to 0.1S in
2007). The Bank has requested the three
companies and SABMIto increase their equity
to repay current liabilities and place as much of
the eurret liabilities on long-term debt basis to
improve the cunfent ratio.
4.03       02         C     Each company shall prepare and review with
the Bank, by Odober 31 each year between
1992 to 1997, its five-year plans, including
production, marketing and investment plans.
Covenant Class:                                                                     Status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people                        C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting       CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not              CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9
funds                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



- 29 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITII OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement (OD
or OP/BP).
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY              1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997    1998       Total
Preappraisal     54.0       1.1                                                                                  55.1
Appraisal        12.9      43.2                                                                                  56.1
Negotiations                7.1      7.6      19.7                                                               34.4
Supervision                                   21.8     21.0      24.6     11.2       2.9      6.9      6.8       95.2
Completion                                                                                            13.2/a    13.2/a
Total                                                                                                       254.0/a
/aEstimated.
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating /b
Imple-       Devel-
Stage of project cycle   Month/   Number of    Days        Specialized staff  mentation      opment           Type of
year      persons    in field  skills represented /a  status     objectives        problems
Preidentification             10/84         5          21
Identification/Preparation    6/85          4          14
dentification/Preparation     5/86          5          30
Identification/Preparation    5/87          3          16
Identification/Preparation    10/87         5          19
Identification/Preparation    7/88          4          22
Preappraisal                  1/89          7          23
Appraisal                     6/89          5          7
Negotiation                    1/92
Postappraisal                  1/91         1          6
Postappraisal                 10/91         2          4
Board approval                3/92
Signing                       7/92
Effective                      1/93
Supervision 1                 11/92         2                        EN               2             2      Delays w/procurement
Supervision 2                 8/93          3                      EN, 00             2             1      Delays w/procurement
Supervision 3                 4/94          2                      EN, 00              2            1      Counterpart Funding
Supervision 4                 7/95          4                    EN, 00, FA           2             2      Counterpart Funding
Supervision 5                 5/96          2                      EN, 00             2             2      Equipment Problems
Supervision 6                 5/97          2          10          EN, 00             2             2      Equipment Problems
Completion                    5/98          3          13        EN, FA, 00            2            3
La  DO: Disbursement Officer, EC: Economist; EN: Engineer, FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer, RA Research
Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory-, 3: Unsatisfactory.



- 30 -                     ANNEX A
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
(May 5-18, 1998)
Introduction
1.    Mr. S.A.B.R. Thalakada (Industry Consultant) and Ms. R. Ma (Operations
Assistant), gathered the information and data required to prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) on the Regional Cement Industry Project (RCIP) during May 5-
18, 1998. In Beijing, the mission held discussions with the Senior officials of the State
Administration for Building Materials Industry (SABMI) and the representatives of the
China Building Materials Academy (CBMA), Tianjin Cement Industry Design Institute
(TCIDI), and officials of the Hefei Cement Industry Research Institute (HCIRI)
responsible for the Small Cement Plants (SCPs) Study. Accompanied by the
representatives of SABMI, the mission visited: Zhongguo Cement Company (ZCC) and
the Nanjing Cement Industry Research Institute (NCIDI) in Nanjing; the Hefei Cement
Industry Research Institute (HCIRI) in Hefei; Tongling Conch Cement Company Limited
(TCCCL) in Tongling; and Ningbo Star Port Cement Limited Company (NSPCLC) in
Ningbo. Arrangements for visits to the companies and institutes involved in the project
were efficiently made by SABMI. The list of the key people met is given in Annex 1. The
mission wishes to express its appreciation for the excellent cooperation and warm
hospitality extended to it by the officials of SABMI, the cement companies and the design
institutes.
2.    Based on the visits made and discussions held, this aide memoire summarizes the
mission's finding on the various components of RCIP. In a wrap-up session held on May
18, 1998, in Beijing, these findings were presented to the representatives of SABMI.
Summary of Findings and Agreements
3.    Cement Industry. Production and consumption of cement in China have kept
their accelerated growth rate during the 1990s. China's consumption of cement increased
from 204 million tons in 1990 to 500 million tons in 1997, with production increasing
from 210 million tons to 510 million tons between 1990 and 1997, respectively. These
achievements far exceeded the projections made for 2000 at the time of RCIP appraisal,
namely, 320 million tons of consumption and 300 million tons of production. Cement
production is expected to reach 550 million tons by year 2000. Clinker and market forces
now determine cement prices and interprovincial trading in cement is also taking place. It
is Government policy that by year 2000, 25 percent of China's total cement requirement
will be produced by medium and large manufacturers using modern and rotary-kiln based
plants producing high quality cement meeting international standards and 75 percent of
cement requirement to be produced by the small cement plants which are considered less
efficient in terms of technology, energy consumption, pollution control and quality of



-31-                        ANNEX A
cement produced. Despite the Government's efforts to increase the medium and large-
scale rotary-kiln based cement plants share of total production, the structure of production
in 1997 was virtually the same as in 1990 when the shaft-kiln based cement plants
accounted for about 82 percent of the total production.
4.    With the dominant position hield by the small cement plants, they appear to be able
to deternine the selling price of cement in the market. Their present selling price is about
Y 280 per ton ($33.75/ton) but their quality is said to be lower than the international
standard. Because of the large investment required and associated financing costs and
depreciation of large cement plants, the cost of production of a large and modern cement
plant comes to about the same as the selling price of a small cement plant i.e. about Y 280
($33.75/ton) but for a better quality cement. Thus, the larger cement plants are finding it
difficult to compete in this market after adding a profit margin to that cost of production,
despite their better quality. On the other hand, due to the recent Asian financial crisis,
some Asia-Pacific countries are said to be having cement for export at about $25-30/ton
FOB. At project appraisal, the FOB price of cement was about $47-51/ton of bagged
cement from South Korea. China, with the present high cost structures of the more
efficient large cement plants, will firLd it difficult to compete with these export prices, at
least in the short term. The SCPs Study undertaken under the RCIP has come up with a
number of recommendations (see below) to phase out the uneconomic small cement plants
and restructure the cement industry to produce a higher quality cement while consuming
less energy and causing less pollution.
5.    RCIP. The project has supported the establishment of modern clinker/cement
producing facilities in Nanjing, Tongling and Ningbo, and has provided technical
assistance for further development of the cement research/design institutes in Beijing,
Tianjin, Nanjing and Hefei and for preparation of a Small-scale Cement Plants Study by
the Hefei Cement Design and Research Institute. The three cement plants were projected
to start commissioning in the third quarter of 1994 and begin commercial production in
1995. The technical assistance component was scheduled to be completed by the end of
1994. The Bank appraisal was carried out in 1991 and the closing date for the Bank loan
of $82.7 million was set at the end of'June 1996.
6.    Although the Bank approved the project on March 17, 1992, the Bank loan did not
become effective until January 5, 1993. This delay combined with other initial constraints
caused a delay of about one year in the startup of project implementation. Thereafter, a
further delay of about another one year took place due to shortage of counterpart funds,
need for reorientation of budgets and delivery of faulty equipment by machinery suppliers.
Due to these delays, the revised schedule which set the start of cement plants' commercial
production at the beginning of 1996 was revised again and a new schedule for the start of
trial commercial production (the third quarter of 1996) was agreed upon and the closing
date was extended to December 31, 1997, by the Bank. Accordingly, the Bank closed the
loan on December 31, 1997.
7.    All three plants completed trial production by the end of 1996 and commenced
commercial production successfully in January 1997. The teething problems have now



-32 -                        ANNEX A
been resolved. Accordingly, from a technical standpoint, the RCIP may be considered as
successful as all three plants serve as models in terms of technology used, high quality of
cement produced (425 and 525 OPC), well trained manpower of about 1300 persons
(combined), energy efficiency, pollution control, safety standards and marketing of
products on an interprovincial basis at market prices.
8.    However, all three cement plants are faced with common financial problems and
therefore their sustainability have become suspect. These problems are discussed as
follows:
(a) Increased Project Costs and Borrowings. Due to the delays in getting the plants started,
the three plants came to be implemented during a regime of high inflation (1992-96). The
rise in prices increased the cost of building material (mainly steel and cement) and labor
costs almost tripled. Also, the Yuan was devalued from Y 5.36 at project appraisal in 1991
to Y 8.70 to a US dollar in 1994. These price increases caused the project costs to increase
in respect of civil works, local equipment and imported machinery. The increased project
costs were financed mainly by increased borrowings and to a lesser extent by TCCCL and
NSPCLC. The interest rates also went up during this period (the assumed interest rate at
appraisal for most domestic loans was about 8.3 percent and a small portion of loans to
ZCC at 14.4 percent which increased to a high of 15.0 percent beginning 1995). As a
consequence of the increased project costs and borrowings, the production costs of cement
being produced by the three cement plants increased considerably by way of higher
depreciation and loan interests costs;
(b) Cement Pricing in the Market. The three cement plants with their high production cost
structures (and producing a higher quality cement), are finding it difficult to compete with
the market prices dictated by the small plants. These small plants do not have such high
depreciation and loan interest costs and produce a lower quality cement. As pointed out
earlier, the production cost of the three plants financed under RCIP is about equal to the
selling price of the small plants. As a consequence, the three plants are finding it difficult to
operate on a profitable basis. The Government is aware of this problem and is looking into
ways and means of establishing an upgraded standard for cement, equivalent to the
international standard, in the country. The mission supports this policy direction as the
creation of a level playing field that would allow both small and large plants to compete in
the market on the basis of quality of cement;
(c) Continuous Losses And Need For Further Funding. As a consequence of high
production cost structures and difficulties of competing in the market, the three plants are
finding it difficult to operate on a profitable basis. Based on the projections provided to the
mission, all three cement companies would be making losses for a long time: NSPCLC for
5 years from 1997 up to year 2001, TCCCL for 7 years from 1997 up to year 2003 and
ZCC for the next 10 years and beyond. Because of these losses, the three plants would
incur difficulties in repay their loans. Moreover, if these projected losses are financed by
further borrowings, this would further increase the production cost and make them less
competitive. At present, further short-term borrowings and postponement of bills payable
are meeting some of the losses but this cannot go on for long. In order to overcome this



- 33 -                      ANNEX A
situation, there is a need for further infusions of equity capital over and above that required
to reduce the present debt burdens arisen from the increased project costs. In these
circumstances, the three companies would not be able to comply with the financial ratios
set by the Bank and outlined in the Projects' Legal Documents. The three companies were
to maintain the following financial ratios:
(i)  a long-term debt to equity ratio of 75:25 or better;
(ii)  a current ratio of 1.2 or better; and
(iii) a debt service coverage r atio of at least 1.2 times.
9.    The succeeding sections of thle aide memoire provide further details on each of the
four project components.
ZCC Component (IBRD Loan of $25.2 million)
10.   ZCC commenced commercial operations in January 1997 with a designed capacity
of 600,000 tons of clinker/700,000 tons of cement per year. However, its operations have
become unprofitable and therefore sustainability in the future has become suspect. In these
circumstances, it would find it difficult to meet its debt-service obligations including the
Bank loan through internally generated funds. This situation has arisen due to various
reasons as explained below.
11.   Firstly, the delay in the implementation of ZCC caused a substantial increase in the
capital cost and a highly leveraged financial structure. The capital cost increased by about
95 percent from Y 420.7 million at Blank appraisal in November, 1991 to Y 821.6 million
in May, 1998. On the other hand, the cost increase was largely financed through increased
borrowings and thereby increasing the debt-equity ratio from 46:54 at Bank appraisal in
1991 to 85:15 in May, 1998. The previously expected equity participation from the China
Petrochemical Corp. and Nanjing Municipal Government as well as the joint-venture
proposal with a Hong Kong company has not materialized, so far. On the basis of 95
percent capacity utilization, the new project cost structure increases the depreciation cost
of cement by Y 52 per ton of cement while, the new debt structure increases the interest
cost of cement by a further Y 108 per ton.
12.   Secondly, the operations of the new plant have been merged with that of the old
one making the new one inherit some of the problems of the old one. Although, at Bank
appraisal it was expected that two of the five old wet-process cement lines would be
phased out, this has not happened, so far. Four old lines continue to operate. While, the
new plant is energy efficient and pollution free, the old ones continue their high-energy
consumption and pollution damage. The other major problem is that about 2000 workers
continue to be employed for the old plant while only 405 are employed for the new plant
with both plants having about similar capacities. This staffing imbalance together with
their social benefits (housing, medical and education of children), are imposing a very



- 34 -                      ANNEX A
heavy burden on the operating costs and management time. Efforts are being made to
reduce social benefits and redundant labor but these would need to be expedited.
13.   Thirdly, ZCC, like all other new cement plants in the country, is faced with a major
marketing problem as discussed earlier.
14.   At project appraisal stage, the Bank estimated its production to be at 60 percent of
capacity in the first year, 80 percent in second year and 100 percent in third year onward.
However, its actual production is well below that capability. The production in 1997 was
only 50 percent of capacity (300,000 tons). Based on the actual production in the first four
months of 1998 (143,700 tons), they expect to operate at 75 percent of capacity in the
second year (1998), 90 percent in the third year (1999) and at 100 percent in the fourth
year (2000) onward. According to the financial projections prepared on this basis and
selling cement at the present market price of Y 280 per ton, ZCC would be a loss making
entit,y, even before depreciation and financing costs are taken into consideration. Losses of
Y 61 million in 1998 would continue, on a decreasing trend, to Y 20 million in 2007 and
beyond. These losses would be even much greater if the depreciation and interest costs are
added as indicated above.
15.   The continuing losses would virtually wipe out its entire equity by year 2007.
Short-term borrowings and postponement of bills payable are enabling ZCC to finance its
losses and repay long-term debt. Therefore, whilst the long-term debt to equity ratio
remains within the Bank covenanted limit, the current and debt service coverage ratios are
not in compliance. The current ratio worsens from 0.65 to 0.18 in 2007, which indicates
that ZCC's current assets are not sufficient to discharge its current liabilities. Its debt
service coverage is negative and would continue to be negative in the foreseeable future.
This shows that it would not be able to repay debt through internally generated cash.
16.   There is no easy solution to resurrect ZCC from this dismal financial situation.
ZCCs longer-term potential competitiveness would be improved when the government
fully implements its plan to establish an upgraded national quality standard equivalent to
the international standard for cement to which cement plants of all sizes would need to
conform. Then the market price could be expected to increase for better quality cement at
which price ZCC would have better prospects for more viable operations. However, if
ZCC is to be a viable operator in the long term a number of drastic actions need to be
taken in the immediate/short-term future, including, inter alia, the following mentioned
actions. ZCC should begin immediately to phase out the fourth old cement line as
envisaged earlier as well as reduce redundant labor and social benefits. ZCC should
introduce an attractive early retirement scheme to reduce redundant labor, the cost of
which could be easily recovered through more productive operations in the future. At the
same time, ZCC should also begin to reduce the social costs associated with housing,
education and health. Of key importance, ZCC needs to begin immediately to reduce its
heavy debt burden. A moratorium on loan repayment would not help, as that would only
postpone the need for a major financial restructuring of the company. The options that
could be considered to reduce the present debt burden and the additional debt burden
arising from the recurrent losses include converting debt into equity and/or increase equity



- 35 -                      ANNEX A
through the present shareholders or new shareholders. In our view, the option of full
divestiture should also be considered. If a work-out option is pursued that includes
financial restructuring, this should be pegged to strict performance benchmarks, which are
reviewed on a quarterly basis. Financial restructuring should not be pursued in isolation,
but rather as part of a package of comprehensive reform, and the strengthening of
managerial skills. Specifically, ZCC needs to strengthen its financial management and put
in place, as soon as possible, a managernent information system (MIS), as the bases for
informed evaluation of work-out options.
17.   ZCC has set up a good cement plant from a technical standpoint and it has also
access to two of the most important resources, namely, limestone and coal and therefore
attraction of new shareholders, given the right price, should not be too difficult. However,
if no decisive measures are taken in the near future, in the view of the mission, ZCC would
become unsustainable and would cause a drain on public resources. If market forces were
allowed to play their role, ZCC would become bankrupt with the resultant unemployment.
TCCCL Component (IBRD Loan of $45.9 Million)
18.   TCCCL successfully commenced commercial operations in January 1997 with a
designed capacity of 1.2 million tons of clinker per year. The participation of the Conch
Group as the major shareholder (holding about 60 percent of equity) in 1996 has infused
TCCCL with professional management. This has enabled TCCCL to set up a model
cement plant in terms of technology, energy efficiency, pollution control and technical
quality of staff. In 1997, 600,000 tons of clinker was sold at Y 220 per ton of clinker (525
OPC). The plant is now being upgraded with assistance of the machinery supplier to
increase the designed capacity to 1.5 million tons of clinker per year. Since TCCCL
started as a greenfield project, it did not inherit any encumbrances of an old plant which
has enabled it to begin operations on a rnore commercial basis in terms of a younger and
relatively smaller labor force of only abcut 690 persons (compared to 1,200 projected at
appraisal), and without having to incur any additional operational costs in terms of welfare
benefits to staff such as housing, education, medical and retiree compensation.
19.   However, as in the case of ZCC, the delays in project implementation caused the
project cost to increase from Y 920.7 million at project appraisal to Y 1,480.3 million in
May 1998, i.e. an increase of about 61 percent. Debt of Y 920.3 million and equity of
Y 560 million giving a debt/equity ratio of 62:38 as against a debt/equity ratio of 68:32
estimated at project appraisal have financed this new project cost. Given the project cost
increase by 61 percent, an improved debt/equity ratio as compared to that estimated at
project appraisal could be considered as creditable and sound financial judgment. This has
been made possible due to the additional equity provided by the Conch Group. The new
project cost and financial structure have brought the depreciation cost component of
cement to Y 60 per ton and interest cost component of cement to Y 67 per ton. The
interest cost per ton will go up further ovwing to the additional borrowings that would need
to be made to finance the recurring losses (see below).



- 36 -                      ANNEX A
20.   Based on the actual production of clinker in the first four months of 1998 (120,000
tons), TCCCL has projected its sales at 1.3 million tons (clinker and cement) in 1998,
increasing to 1.5 million tons (clinker and cement) in 1999 and remaining at that level
thereafter. The financial projections prepared on this basis and including the costs of
depreciation and interest on loans as indicated earlier, TCCCL would not be profitable in
the first seven years ( 1997 to 2003) of operations. Losses of Y 82 million in 1998 would
continue on a decreasing trend to a loss of Y 7.9 million in 2003. Thereafter, it would
become profitable with profits of Y 3.3 million in 2003 and increasing to a profit of Y 15.5
million in 2010 and thereafter.
21.   TCCCL would meet the debt to equity ratio but not the current and debt service
coverage ratios. The current ratio would not be complied with until 2009 (it worsens from
1.02 in 1997 to 0.01 in 2003, picks up slightly to 0.09 in 2008 and improves thereafter to
1.4 in 2009 and 2.1 in 2010). Due to the large short-term borrowings to finance the
recurrent losses and to repay long-term debt, and the debt service coverage ratio would
not be complied with until 2003 due to the servicing burden of these borrowings (it ranges
between 0.63 and 0.64 from 1997 to 2003 and improves thereafter to 1.76 in 2004 and
improves further thereafter). TCCCL's current assets would not be sufficient to discharge
its current liabilities and it would also not be able to meet its debt service obligations
through internally generated funds as indicated by the adverse current and debt service
coverage ratios.
22.   Two factors could help TCCCL to get an earlier stream of profits. These are:
firstly, a further portion of long-term debt as well as the additional borrowings necessary
to finance losses are converted into equity and/or obtain further equity contributions from
the present shareholders and/or from new shareholders to reduce the interest cost burden;
and secondly, if high quality cement is able to attract a higher price in the market, TCCCL
could cover all its actual costs as well as yield an adequate profit margin for more
profitable operations in the future.
23.   TCCCL has started to put in place a MIS. Its full establishment needs to be
expedited, particularly to get quickly the data necessary for product costing and marketing
as well as financial information. In the absence of one, the mission found it difficult to
obtain the necessary information for a detailed analysis of its financial position.
NSPCLC Component (IBRD Loan of $8.0 Million)
24.   NSPCLC completed trial production in October 1996 and commenced commercial
operations in January 1997 with a designed capacity to produce 700,000 tons of cement
per year. Since it is a new plant, its labor force is only 190 (compared to 330 projected at
appraisal) and it has no social obligations to meet. However, as in the case of the other
two lplants, it also encountered delays in project implementation. A part of the delay was
caused by the need to provide a new wharf, as the one belonging to the Ports Authority
could not meet their requirement contrary to what was originally expected. Due to these
reasons, the project cost increased from Y 140.4 million at Bank appraisal to Y 421.8
million (including Y 90 million for the new wharf) in May 1998. However, the increased



- 37 -                      ANNEX A
project cost was financed mainly by additional equity (increased from Y 40 million
expected at appraisal to Y 150 million in May 1998). The additional equity came mainly
from the Anhui Conch Co. Thus, the present debt/equity ratio is about 64:36 as against
67:33 estimated at appraisal. The increased project cost brings the depreciation cost of
cement to Y 27/ton, lower than the other two as NSPCLC is only a clinker grinding
station and therefore did not have to incur high capital costs like the other two. The loan
interest cost comes to Y 44/ton of cement.
25.   In 1997, NSPCLC produced 180,000 tons of cement (26 percent of capacity).
Based on actual production during the first 4 months of 1998 (110,000 tons), they expect
to produce 600,000 tons (85 percent of capacity) in 1998 and increasing to 700,000 tons
(100 percent capacity) in 1999 and thereafter.
26.   According to the financial projections prepared based on the above capacity
utilization, NSPCLC would be making losses of Y 40.28 million in 1997 and gradually
decreasing to a loss of Y 5.47 million in year 2001. Thereafter, it would make a profit of
Y .06 million in year 2002 and increasing to a profit of Y 3.58 million in year 2007 and
thereafter. The financial projections take into account the increased cost of production of
cement resulting from the increased project cost. Like the other two plants, NSPCLC is
also facing the similar problem of having to compete with the selling price of Y 280 set by
the small cement plants. In 1997, NSPC]LC's manufacturing cost came to Y 317 per ton
(including a clinker price of Y 256 per ton) to which the other costs in relation to
management, finance, sales, depreciation and tax need to be added and the resulting total
cost is much above the current market price of Y 280 per ton of cement as determined by
the small plants. One of the major reasons for NSPCLC high manufacturing cost is the
arrangement it has to buy clinker at a predetermined and relatively high price from
TCCCL. The mission discussed this arrangement with NSPCLC who explained that even
if they were contractually free to buy clinker on the open market at a lower price, this
would not be a feasible option at the moment as they lack the necessary liquidity to pay
cash. TCCCL who also has ownership links with NSPCLC, currently provides them with
supplier credit for this clinker, the price of which is expected to drop to Y 222 per ton in
1998. The situation in 1998 and thereafter should be slightly better with greater capacity
utilization and the reduced clinker price.
27.   NSPCLC would meet the debt to equity ratio but not the current and debt service
coverage ratios. The current ratio would not be complied with during the foreseeable
future. It worsens from 0.75 in 1998 to 0.16 in 2004 and improves slightly to 0.50 in
2007. The adverse current-ratio is as a result of the large short-term borrowings to finance
the recurrent losses and to repay long-term debt. Due to the heavy debt service burden,
the debt service coverage ratio would not be met in the foreseeable future. It would range
between 0.2 and 0.4 during 1998 to 2007. NSPCLC's current assets are insufficient to
discharge its current liabilities and it would also not be able to meet its debt service
obligations, including on the Bank loans, through internally generated funds as indicated
by the adverse current and debt service coverage ratios.



-38 -                       ANNEX A
28.   In order to improve the financial position, NSPCLC would also need to convert
the existing debt and the additional debt arising from the need to finance the losses into
equity and/or obtain additional equity contributions from the present shareholders and/or
new shareholders. NSPCLC also needs to put in place, as soon as possible, a management
infornation system (MIS). This will facilitate the collection of data required to intensify its
sales and marketing efforts as well as financial information required for its capital
restructuring efforts. The mission's work was handicapped in its absence.
Technical Assistance Component (IBRD Loan of $3.6 Million)
29.   As per the Memorandum of Understanding signed between SABMI and the Bank
mission on May 8, 1996, all agreed goods and service have been procured and the Bank's
objectives in assisting them with their finance have been fully met. The details are outlined
below:
(a) TCIDI has fully utilized the Bank loan of $1,246,000 for import of equipment
($1,236,000), staff training ($6,800), and foreign experts visiting China ($3,200). Two
technical staff were trained at ABB, Switzerland. The computer and network systems
financed by the loan have been useful to expand the development work and services to the
cement industry. The development work done so far relates to creation of software for
flood control in cement plants and use of the imported x-ray fluorescence apparatus for
manufacture of color cement. Both these items are now being used by the cement industry.
Further work underway in developing a MIS and an engineering database is expected to be
completed in the course of 1998. The equipment financed by the Bank loan has also helped
them to increase the services being provided to the cement industry by way of raw material
analysis (quality of coal and limestone) and improving designs of cement plants for greater
efficiency in energy consumption, pollution control and manufacture of more efficient
cement plants (100,000 tpy and above). The impact of a greater usage of their services
would lead to the establishment of a more efficient and viable cement industry in the
country.
(b) CBMA has fully utilized the Bank loan of $402,080 for import of equipment ($182,851),
research and service ($180,091) and staff training ($39,138). It started commercial
manufacturing of the mobile load scale developed under the project. These conform to
international standards and are now being used by about 30 users in 15 provinces. In order
to further promote their usage, CBMA is now developing a low cost and more affordable
version of it for the Chinese market. CBMA agreed with the mission to finalize testing of
this low cost version by the end of 1999 and begin marketing of it on a commercial basis by
year 2000. The impact of a greater spread of bulk cement transport would be a reduction in
the use of paper bags for cement transport as well as a reduction in pollution caused by
their disposal.
(c) NCIDI has fully utilized the Bank loan of $910,000 for import of equipment ($863,000),
foreign training of staff in Switzerland and Sweden ($43,500) and foreign personnel visiting
China ($3,500). The equipment is now in full operation and has greatly enhanced NCIDrs



-39-                         ANNEX A
capability for research, analysis, design and provision of technical services. At present,
about 10 cement plants are using its technical services.
As to the future, it has initiated research for developing two important projects:
(i)  using a lower grade of coal as fuel for cement plants, for the first time in
China, which will save fuel costs by about 40 percent and enable the use of
the vast quantities of the lower grade coal available in the south and east
parts of China as fuel for cement plants in these parts of the country
(currently, coal for these cement plants are being transported from a distance
of about 2,000 km); and
(ii)  improving the operation of shaft-kiln-based plants by designing a new
machine for raw material processing which will increase production capacity
and product quality and decrease fuel consumption and pollution of these
plants.
(d) HCIDI has fully utilized the Bank loan of $718,780 for import of equipment ($677,950),
training of staff in the USA, Hong Kong and Japan ($37,320) and foreign experts visiting
China ($3,510). This project has greatly enhanced its research and design capability as well
as the technical skills of staff. The imported equipment has assisted HCIDI to undertake
research to improve the performance of vertical and roller mills and to produce high quality
casting material for rotary kilns. About 200 customers are now using its analysis, research
and design services. It expects to increase its services to about 300 customers in the near
future.
30.   Small Cement Plants (SCPs) Study. This study was undertaken by HCIDI to
address the issue of economic efficiency and pollution relating to a majority of the
country's SCPs. After a long delay, the study has now been completed and a copy of the
draft report was given to the mission in the field. The final report will be given to the Bank
by 15 June 1998 after finalizing the comrments of Austro Plan, the consultants, on the
recommendations being made in the draft report. It appears that the delay was largely due
to a shortage of counterpart funding with ]HCIDI, which prevented them from working on
the study on a full-time basis. The recommendations of the draft report relate, inter alia to:
(a) shut down, before the year 2000, the very small SCPs (those below 2.0 meters in
diameter) which cannot be renovated;
(b) allow elimination through market forces of those SCPs less than 2.5 meters in
diameter which produce poor quality cement and cannot attract customers;
(c) renovate, on a selective basis, those SCPs which are comparatively larger in size and
in better condition;
(d) shut down shaft kilns and convert them into grinding stations to whom clinker can be
given from other factories for grinding purposes;



-40 -                      ANNEX A
(e) restructure the cement industry (large shaft kilns in good condition should be
renovated; limit set up of new shaft kilns and limit their expansion; shut down those
enterprises without business licenses; and small rotary kilns be made to produce
special cements like white cement);
(f) government to introduce regulations to force enterprises to produce cement meeting
international standards; and
(g) government to make institutional arrangements to facilitate implementation of these
recommendations.
31.   The mission is aware that the government is currently engaged in formulating a
policy/regulatory framework for the cement industry. The recommendations being made in
the SCP Study would be helpful in this regard. In particular, the early establishment of a
higher quality standard for cement equivalent to the international standard will be helpful
to encourage all cement producers (small, medium and large and both shaft and rotary
kilns) to produce good quality cement in the country. Such a higher standard will create a
level playing field for all cement producers to compete equally for market share based on
quality of cement.
Operational Plan and Performance Targets
32.   The operational plan of the project needs to focus on work-out options which
would improve the operational efficiency and relieve the debt servicing burden faced by
the cement companies, particularly ZCC. Infusion of new equity capital or the conversion
of debt into equity could be important elements in a financial restructuring, but these
actions should be pegged to strict performance benchmarks that the companies are
required to meet in order to "qualify" for ongoing support. The need for strictly enforcing
performance goals, or other conditionally should also apply to proposals to reschedule
debt to assist the companies, such as placing much of the short-term debt and other
creditors debt, on a long-term basis (while keeping the debt/equity ratio within the Bank
covenanted limit) in order to bring the current ratio within the Bank covenanted limit.
Such arrangements would enable TCCCL, NSPCLC and ZCC to discharge their current
liabilities from current assets and service their debt from internally generated funds.
33.   The financial difficulties facing the plants, and the need for restructuring, were
discussed in detail with the management of each of the plants and with SABMI, who are
all very aware of the problems and the urgent need to find solutions thereto. Each plant is
actively investigating options to address these problems, such as ZCC efforts to establish a
joint venture with an investor from Hong Kong. However, because of the complexity of
the issues that need to be considered, and the large number of parties that would need to
be involved in any proposed restructuring (including the local governments in the different
municipalities and provinces) it was not practical for the mission to reach a specific action
plan with SABMI at this stage. It was however agreed that SABMI and the cement plants
will continue to actively pursue the various options for financial restructuring and work



-41-                       ANNEX A
towards the implementation of a workable solution. Significant developments in this
regard will be reported to the World Bank.
34.   On a more general level, the three cement plants need to take steps to improve
their overall competitiveness through reducing costs, strengthening their marketing and
sales activities and improving efficiency. In particular, it was agreed that the three cement
plants i.e. ZCC, TCCCL and NSPCLC will work towards qualifying for ISO 9002 by
December 31, 2000. This would ensure that they continue to produce a good quality
clinker/cement and maintain the highest standards of efficiency in terms of operations and
management.
35.   In respect to the four cement research and design institutes it was agreed that they
would achieve the following performance indicators by December 31, 2000;
36.   TCIDI income from their services of raw material analysis and improving designs
of cement plants for greater efficiency in energy consumption, pollution control and
manufacture of more efficient cement plants are expected to double from Yuan 60 million
in 1997 to about Yuan 120 million in year 2000.
37.   CBMA indicated that, in year 2000, at least 10 percent to 15 percent of bulk
cement transport will be using their low cost version of the mobile load scale for
transporting bulk cement.
38.   NCIDI will complete the research work and begin commercial marketing of the
use of the lower grade of coal as fuel for cement plants by year 2000.
39.   By year 2000, HCIDI will commercialize the use of coal in powder form as fuel for
cement plants which will save the amount of coal usage by about 15-20 percent.
40.   It was also agreed that the final report of the study on small cement plants
conducted by HCIDI would be submitted to the Bank latest by June 15, 1998. Otherwise,
it will be considered by the Bank as noncompliance of one of the key components of the
Bank loan.



-42-                       ANNEX B
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
A. Introduction
China Regional Cement Project (CRCP) aiming at upgrading the overall quality of China's
cement industry, adjusting and improving its structure as a whole utilizes proceedings of
the World Bank loan. Since the beginning of project implementation until to date, China's
cement industry has achieved remarkable progresses and project implementation has also
made good results. Today, when we review every stage of implementation, we found out
that a lot of useful results and experiences are worthwhile being summed up. We believe
that the experiences gained through project implementation can be beneficial not only to
ongoing development of China's cement industry, but for the Bank's future financing
operations as well.
B. Evaluation of Implementation Results of CREP
Through efforts of all entities of subprojects and thanks to the organization and
coordination made by the World Bank Project Management Office (PMO) of State
Administration of Building Materials Industry (SABMI), performances of all subprojects
are generally good. The subprojets include construction of a preheater/precalciner cement
production line with 2000 T/D daily clinker capacity in Zhongguo Cement Plant (ZCP),
building up a preheater/precalciner cement production line with 400 T/D daily clinker
capacity in Tongling Conch Cement Co. and a cement grinding station with 600,000
T/Y annual clinker grinding capacity in Ningbo, procurement of instrumentation,
equipment and technologies aiming at upgrading existing research and design institutes,
submission of small scale cement plants study report in which evaluation on both
economic viability of and environment impacts by China's small scale cement plants has
been made. With finalization of all subprojets, the total volume of high grade cement has
increased which leads to higher proportion of cement produced by large and medium scale
cement plants, less environmental pollution and energy consumption and more
employment opportunities as well. One significant feature is that technical levels of some
cement plants have been upgraded to reach international standards of early 1990's. During
project implementation, Ningbo Cement Plant (NCP) had been merged into Anhui Conch
Group, and the Conch has also made another acquisition of subproject Tongling Cement
Plant (TCP). The company restructuring realizes not only a rational allocation of resources
which can not be come into true under the planning economy, but in conform to the
Bank's original concept when it firstly designed the project as well. Besides
instrumentation and equipment through procurement made by the Bank's loan have
enabled existing basic lab facilities well equipped and facilitated cement research and
design institutes to do engineering from experience-oriented to lab experiment-oriented
which in turn have promoted research and development on new production process and
equipment for the cement industry. Through a comprehensive survey and analyses on



- 43 -                     ANNEX B
current situations, detailed measures on small-scale cement plants restructuring have been
put forward which will be taken as references for relevant Chinese authorities when they
make decisions on development and restructuring of the cement industry.
C. Evaluation on Experiences
As borrower, in order to well implement the China Regional Cement Project, SABMI set
up a special World Bank Project Management Office (PMO) which was responsible for
project monitoring, supervision and overall coordination. Each subproject entities also set
up special units headed by leaders in charge. In addition to quarterly reporting to
SABMI's PMO, the subproject entities were also sought guidance from PMO whenever
they encountered specific issues and problems. Therefore, smoothly completion of the
project was achieved.
Advanced cement production equipment and technologies have introduced under the
Bank's financing. Gradually developing and partial application of Management &
Information System (MIS) which is suggested by the Bank have let cement plants be fully
aware of how important MIS means to their management and survival which is helpful to
realize standardized management and production efficiency improvement.
It is very important to carry out in-depth market study and survey for analyzing both
hardware parts and software parts of proposed equipment and technologies you are going
to purchase and ensuring that you get the best price vs. performances ratio as long as you
are ready to make procurement. Before you make final selections among different offers
the advancement of equipment is not the only thing you have to consider, after-sales
services of equipment suppliers are also priority. Meanwhile due attention on staff training
must be made. With importation of advanced equipment and technologies, employees'
quality has been improved greatly and overall technical levels of institutes and plants have
also been upgraded.
Since the key equipment from foreign equipment suppliers were mainly procured by the
Bank's loan, while the Bank needed longer time to evaluate and approve, the longer
evaluation period affected the delivery of domestic final drawings for project construction
which further caused delays for the whole project. Since Bank's timetable had to be kept,
we had to adopt the way of making final drawings while the construction was under way.
In case of major design changes, it would be a big trouble for on-site construction
management. Due to prolonged project preparation and construction, the project, in most
cases, missed booming market and encountered troubles such as high inflation, overrun of
capital investment costs, and increase of production costs which led to making losses after
the project was put into production.
Due to complicated formalities and procedures for project documents submission, project
approval, the Bank's loan disbursement and taxation, it takes much time particularly for
overseas training.



-44 -                      ANNEXB
D. Evaluation on the Role of the Bank
The Bank has taken an active role in promotion of China's cement industry development
and improvement of its technical levels in the aspects of scientific research, design and
production process through loan financing. The objectives and designs of the World Bank
project are suitable and practical to the development of China's cement industry. From the
point of view of the final result of the project implementation, the objectives and designs
of the project are successful. From the project appraisal until implementation, the bank has
been very helpful and given many good suggestions. Enthusiasm and conscientiousness
shown by individual Bank officials and consultants have left us deep impressions. During
the project implementation, site inspections on progresses made by all subprojects twice a
year adopted by the Bank is very effective. During the inspections, overall project
progresses were reviewed and good suggestions on project implementation were also
given by the Bank. Generally speaking, the Bank's primary roles of project monitoring,
inspections and end-user friendly services are doing well.



- 45 -                          ANNEX C
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON ICR
MSINISTRY OF FINANCE
San Li He Lu, Beijing 100820
Peoples Republic of China
Tel: 6855-1551
Fax: 6851-6072
Date: June 25, 1998
To:    Mr. Hoon Mok Chung,
Sector Manager, Private Sector Development Unit,
East Asia and Pacific Region                              Fax: 001-202-522-3454
CC:   Mr. Yukon Huang, Director, China Cotmtiy Unit, RMC         Fax: 6554-1686
Ms. Amanda S. Carlier, Task Manager.                      Fax: 001-202-522-3454
Ms. Shenhua Wang, Acting Sector Coordinator. RMC          Fax: 6554-1686
From: Liang Ziqian, Chief,
Energy, Transport and Industry Division.
World Bank Department, MOF                                Fax: 6851-6072
Subject: ICR of China Regional Cement Industrv Project (Loan-3443-CHA)
Dear Mr. Chung,
We have reviewed the draft ICR of the captioned project prepared by the Bank.
We would like to give you the following comments:
1.     We agree to the basic project implementation assessments shown in Paragraph 14, 15 and 16 of
the Evaluation Summary, and Summary of Assessments in Table I of the Part II.
2.     With regard to the lessons to be learned from this project given in Paragraph 18 of the Evaluation
Sumnuary, we suggest the following lesson be included in:
For those industrial projects vulnerable to the market, potential risk factors should be taken into
full account by the Bank at the appraisal stage.
In this case, increased project cost and borrowing and the competitive cement market are major
risk factors affecting the performance of the project. These risk factors should have been picked up and
appropriate measures should have been taken during appraisal period.
3.     In Paragraph 24 of the Part I, the last sentence "The Bank's overall performance, has been
deficient for project appraisal and satisfactory for supervision." is inconsistent with the description in
Paragraph 14 of the Evaluation Summary. It should be corrected in accordance with the Paragraph 14.
With best regards,
Yours Sincerely,
L   . o,z cia. 
=n=,y, Transpor, and tndustry Div.
':o!d' Bairc Do-: ._ MO F



-46-                       ANNEX C
Comments on Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
(China: Regional Cement Industry Project, Loan 3443-CIIA)
The World Bank Resident Mission:
We have received and reviewed the draft ICR of the captioned project prepared by the
Bank. We would like to present you our comments as follows:
1.    There was no pre-consultation before the written Aide Memoire of the Bank
mission was delivered to the Planning and Development Department of the State
Administration of Building Materials Industry.
2.    The delay of the Small Scale Cement Plants Study mentioned in the report can not
be attributed to the State Administration of Building Materials Industry. In fact, the
Adlministration had been actively pushing the conclusion of the report, though we
encountered practical difficulties which had invited negative influence.
3.    In the ICR, it indicated that "Due to the uncertain situation facing to the
implementing of the recommendations of the Small Scale Cement Plants Study... This
task is considered unsatisfactory". SAMBI, in years, has always dedicated itself to
readjustment of the cement production structure. One of its targets is to increase the
share of cement produced by rotary kilns. We have promoted the policy of "encouraging
the big and restructuring the small". As a matter of fact, in recent years, we have gained
significant achievements in the cement production mix thanks to the impact of the Small
Scale Cement Plants Study.
Planning and Development Department
State Administration of Building Materials Industry
(Official Seal)
Date: June 25, 1998
Sent out after approval of Mr. Zhang, Director of Planning and Development Department,
SAMBI -- Ming Xiaodong.



47 -                      ANNEX D
ANNEX D: PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This annex presents summary financial statements for ATCC, NCC, and ZCC
for the period 1998 through 2007. The three companies completed trial production by
the end of 1996 and commenced commercial production in January 1997. Full capacity
utilization is expected by the years 1998 for ATCC, 1999 for NCC, and 2000 for ZCC.
Er post facto evaluation of the project shows that the companies' financial
management practices are still evolving.  At the time of ICR preparation, the
companies possessed limited financial management and reporting systems for
commercial operation.
The financial statements below present projections prepared by the Borrower
during the ICR process.   The statements reflect existing financial management
practices which are expected to improve substantially during the operating period.



-48 -                                     ANNEX D
TABLE 1: PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR ATCC /a
(in constant Yuan million)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    205    2006    2007
Profit and Loss Statenent lb
Gross Sales                          280.34   317.95   317.95   317.95   317.95   317.95   317.95   317.95   317.95   317.95
Sale; Taxes                            3.22    3.66     3.66     3.66    3.66     3.66    3.66     3.66     3.66    3.66
Variable Costs                       145.90   164.90   164.90   164.90   164.90   164.90   164.90   164.90   164.90   164.90
Management Expenses                   21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09    21.09
Selling Costs                         27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64    27.64
Financial Expenses                    86.87    83.25    72.48    60.61    47.72    31.11    18.26    15.27    12.20  9.13
Fixed Cost (Depreciation)             77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48
Total Profits                        -81.86   -60.07   -49.30   -37.43   -24.54    -7.93  4.92     7.91    10.98    14.05
Incorne Tax                             -       --       -        -       -        -      1.62     2.61     3.62    4.64
Net Profit                       -81.86   -60.07   -49.30   -37.43   -24.54    -7.93   3.30     5.30    7.36     9.41
Balance Sheet /b
Assf
Cash                               6.56    62.73    42.88    14.13    9.04    0.79     0.71     7.64    6.30    9f80
Receivables                       37.45    37.45    37.45    37.45    4.81    17.45    3.00     7.45    17.45    22.90
Inventories                       51.84    51.84    51.84    51.84    51.84    14.68    27.30    17.30    27.30    51.84
Other Cunrent Assets              20.72    20.72    20.72    20.72    20.72    1.00    0.00     0.00    10.00    20.72
Total Current Assets           116.57   172.74   152.89   124.14    86.41    33.92    31.01    32.39    61.05   105.26
GrossFixedAssets                1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12 1,148.12
Less Depreciation               77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48    77.48
NetFixedAssets                1,403.64 1,326.16 1,248.68 1,171.20 1,093.72 1,016.24   938.76   861.28   783.80   706.32
rotal Assets                    1,520.21  1,498.90 1,401.57  1,295.34 1,180.13 1,050.16   969.77   893.67   844.85   811.58
Uiablites and Equity
Accounts Payable                  24.08    24.08    24.08    24.08    24.08    44.08    74.08    34.08    24.08    24.08
Short Term Loan                   70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00
Other Liabilties                  24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95    24.95
Current PortionofLong-term Debt   43.10   148.10   118.10   128.10   161.18   127.02    38.10    38.10    38.10    38.10
TotalCurrentLiabilities        162.13   227.13   237.13   247.13   280.21   260.65   207.13   167.13   157.13   157.13
World Bank Loan                  398.98   360.88   322.78   284.68   246.58   208.48   170.38   132.28    91.40    56.08
Domestic Credits                 452.00   382.00   302.00   212.00    88.92    0n00    0.00     0.00    0.00     o.o
Other Long-term Debt              23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96    23.96
Total Long-term Debt           874.94   766.84   648.74   520.64   359.46   232.44   194.34   156.24   115.36    80.04
Total Share Caphal               565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00   565.00
Retained Eamings                  -81.86   -60.07   -49.30   -37.43   -24.54    -7.93  3.30     5.30    7.36     941
Total Equity                   483.14   504.93   515.70   527.57   540.46   557.07   568.30   570.30   572.33   574.41
rotal Uabilities and Equity     1,520.21  1,498.90 1,401.57 1,295.34 1,180.13 1,050.16   969.77   893.67   844.85   811.58
RatIos
Capacity Utilization (%) Ic            108      125      125     125      125     125      125      125     125      125
NetPrordtMargin(%)                    -29.2   -18.9   -15.5   -11.8    -7.7    -2.5        1.0      1.6      2.3     2.9
Debt Sevice Cover                      0.63    0.52     0.53     0.53    0.48     0.64     1.76    1.84     1.93    2.03
Cuffent Ratio                          0.07    0.06     0.06     005     0.03    0.01     0.01     0.02     0.04'   0.07
Lon-term Debt/Equity                  64:36    60:40    56:44    50:50    40:60   :29:71.   25:75    21:79    17:83    12:88
ow0: Borrwower estimates.
hWtes:  jL Reflects revised projections prepared during the ICR process.
j2 Production began in 1997; full operation is assumed from January 1998. Financial projections were prepared by the Bonower and reflect
local accounting practices.
h With adjustments to machinery, ATCC expects to attain more than 100% capacity.



-49-                                    ANNEX D
TABLE 2: PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR NCC /a
(in constant Yuan million)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003        2004    2008    2006    2007
Profit and Loss Statement lb
Production Capacity (thousand tons)  600      700     700      700     700      700      700      700     700      700
Prce per ton (excl. tax)             280      295     300      300     300      300      300      300     300      300
Gross Sales                        168.00   206.50   210.00   210.00   210.00   210.00   210.00   210.00   210.00   210.00
Variable Cost                      152.80   177.96   177.96   177.96   177.96   177.96   177.96   177.96   177.96   177.96
Gross Profit                        15.46    28.54    32.04    32.04    32.04    32.04    32.04    32.04    32.04    32.04
Financial Expense (Local)           17.40    16.97    15.53    10.55    5.71   2.85      2.50    2.50     2.50    2.50
Financial Expense (Foreign)         3.93     3.50     3.06   262.00    2.10    1.75      1.31    0.87     0.44    0.06
Management Expenses                 4.00     4.00     4.00    4.00     4.00    4.00      4.00    4.00     4.00    4.00
Selling Costs                        1.80    1.50     1.20    1.20     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00
Depreciation                         9.57    19.13    19.13   19.13    19.13   19.13    19.13   19.13    19.13   19.13
Income Tax                                 -           --      -       0.03    1.09      1.35    1.50     1.65    1.76
Net Profit                    -21.23   -16.36   -10.88    -5.47    0.63   2.22      2.75    3.04     3.35     3.58
Balance Sheet /b
Assets
Cash                           11.00    5.80     5.60    5.00     5.00     2.00     5.00     8.00    15.00    30.00
Receivables                    11.00    8.00     7.00    5.00     5.00     5.00     6.00     6.00    8.00    10.00
Inventories                    32.00    30.00    25.00    14.00    18.00    11.00    12.50    25.00    32.00    32.00
OtherCurrentAssets              2.61    0.57     0.38    1.02     0.62    0.40      0.19    0.60     0.58     3.11
Total Current Assets         56.61    44.37    37.98    25.02    28.62    18.40    23.69    39.60    55.58    75.11
Gross Fixed Assets            378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03   378.03
Less Depreciation             9.57    19.13    19.13    19.13    19.13    19.13    19.13    19.13   19.13   19.13
Net Fixed Assets            368.46   349.32   330.20   311.07   281.94   262.80   243.67   224.54   205.41   186.28
Total Assets                  425.07   393.68   368.18   336.09   310.56   281.21    267.37   264.14   260.99   261.39
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts Payable               82.00    93.60    93.60    93.60    93.60   93.60    93.60    93.60    93.60    93.60
Short Term Loan                  ---      --      -      20.00    40.00    60.00    50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00
Other Liabilities               3.00    3.00     5.00    5.00     5.03     6.09     6.13     6.49    6.63     6.76
Long-term Debt                   ---     ---      --       --      ---      --       ---      --      -        -
Total Current Liabilities    85.00    96.60    98.60   118.60   138.63   159.69   149.73   150.09   150.23   150.36
World Bank Loan                56.30    49.68    43.06    36.43    29.81    23.18    16.56   9.94    3.31      -
Domestic Credds               155.00   135.00   125.00    85.00    46.00    --       --       --      -        -
Other Long-term Debt             -        --      ---     ---      -        -        ---      -        -       -
Total Long-term Debt        211.30   184.68   168.06   121.43   75.81    23.18    16.56    9.94    3.31      -
Share Capital                 150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00
Retained Eamings              -21.23   -37.59   -48.47   -53.94   -53.88   -51.67    -48.92   -45.88   -42.56   -38.97
Total Equity                128.77   112.41   1D1.53    96.06    96.12    98.33    101.08   104.12   107.44   111.03
Total Liabilities and Equity  425.07   393.68   358.18   336.09   310.56   281.21    267.37   264.14   260.99   261.39
Ratios
CapacityUtilization(%)                85      100     100      100     100      100      100      100      100     100
Net Profit Margin (%)                 9.2    13.8    15.3    15.3    15.3    15.3        15.3    15.3    15.3    15.3
Debt Service Cover                   0.28    0.29     0.30    0.45     0.38    0.28      0.36    0.43     0.43     0.45
Current Ratio                        0.75    0.46     0.39    0.21     0.21     0.12     0.16    0.26     0.37     0.50
Long-term Debt/Equity               62:38    62:38    52:38   56:44    44:56    19:81   14:86    8:92     3:97
Source: Borrower estimates.
Notes:  /a Reflects actual results for 1997 and revised projections for future years, prepared during the ICR process.
/b Production began in 1997; full operation is assumed from January 1998.
Financial projections were prepared by the Borrower and reflect local accounting practices.



- 50-                                   ANNEX D
TABLE 3: PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR ZCC ia
(in constant Yuan million)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2006    2006    2007
Profit and Loss Staternent lb
Gross Sales                       196.00   222.00  244.00   244.00   244.00   244.00   244.00   244.00   244.00   244.W0
Sales Tax                           1.76    2.00    2.20     2.20     2.20    2.20     2.20    2.20     2.20    2.20
Vanable Costs                     142.00   162.00   178.00   178.00   178.00   178.00   178.00   178.00   178.00   178.00
FixedCosts                        115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00   115.00
Net Non-Operating Expenses           -        ---     -        -       -        ---     ---      -       -        -
Nlet Incorne                  -62.00   -57.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00
Funds Flow Staterment /b
Sources
Retained Eamings                   -62.00   -57.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00   -51.00
Depreciation                       10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00
World 3ank Loan
Domestic Credits
Total Sources of Funds           23.00   28.00    34.00    34.00   34.00    34.00    34.00    34.00    34.00    34.00
Uses
Project
Working Capital Loan
World Bank Loan Repayment          21.00    21.00    21.00    21.00    21.00   21.00    21.00    21.00    21.00    2.00
Other Loan Repayment               85.00    60.00    55.00    65.00    55.00   70.00    35.00    60.00  1.30
Total Uses of Funds             106.00    81.00    76.00    86.00    76.00    91.00    56.00    81.00    22.30  2.00
Net Cash Flow                        -83.00   -53.00   -42.00   -52.00   -42.10   -57.00   -22.00   -47.00    12.00   32.00
Ending Cash                         -83.00  -136.00  -178.00  -230.00  -272.00  -329.00  -351.00  -398.00  -386.00  -354.00
Balance Sheet j 
Assets
Cash on Hand                        4.32    4.32    4.32    4.32      4.32    4.32     4.32    4.32     4.32    4.32
Receivables                        56.75   56.75    56.75    56.75    56.75   56.75    56.75    56.75    56.75    56.75
Total Inventories                  30.70   30.70    30.70    30.70    30.70   30.70    30.70    30.70    30.70    30.70
OtherCurrentAssets                 26.16    26.16    26.16    26.16    26.16    26.16    26.16    26.16    26.16   26.16
Total Current Assets            117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93   117.93
Gross Fixed Assets                514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43   514.43
Less Depreciation                92.20   92.20    92.20   92.20    92.20   92.20    92.20    92.20    92.20   92.20
Net Fixed Assets                422.23   422.23  422.23   422.23   422.23   422.23   422.23   422.23   422.23   422.23
2000/D Enginering Project         735.80   735.80  735.80  735.80   735.80   735.80   735.80   735.80   735.80   735.80
Total Assets                   1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96
Liabilfties and Equity
Accounts Payable                   28.07    28.07   28.07    28.07    28.07    28.07    28.07    28.07    28.07   28.07
Short-term Loans                  106.55   163.55   214.55   265.55   316.55   367.55   418.55   469.55   520.55   571.65
Other Liabilities                  46.57    46.57   46.57    46.57    46.57    46.57    46.57    46.57    46.57    46.57
Current Portion of Long-term Debt
Total Cuffent Liabilities       181.19   238.19   289.19  340.19   391.19   442.19   493.19   544.19   595.19   646.19
World Bank Long-term Debt         182.20   182.20  182.20   182.20   182.20   182.20   182.20   182.20   182.20   182.20
Domestic Credits                  486.30   486.30   486.30  486.30   486.30   486.30   486.30   486.30   486.30   486.30
Total Liabilites                849.69   906.69   957.69 1,008.69 1,059.69 1,110.69 1,161.69 1,212.69 1,263.69 1,314.69
Total Equity                      426.27 .- 369.27   318.27   267.27   216.27   165.27   114.27    63.27    12.27   -38.73
Total Liabilffles and Equity   1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96 1,275.96
Ratios
CapacRlyUtilization(%)               75       90      100     100     100      100     100      100     100      100
Net Profit Margin (%)              -31.6   -25.7   -20.9   -20.9   -20.9   -20.9   -20.9   -20.9   -20.9   -20.9
Debt Service Cover               Negative Negative Negative Negative Negative Negative Negative Negative Negative Negative
Currerrt Ratio                      0.65    0.50    0.41     0.35    0.30    0.27      0.24    0.22     0.20    0.18
Long-Term Debt/Equity              57:43   57:43   56:44   55:45   53:47    48:52   46:54   21:79    14:86       -
Source. Borrower estimates.
Notes: /a Reflects revised projections prepared during the ICR process.
tb Production began in 1997; full operation is assumed from January 1998.
Financial projections were prepared by the Borrower and reflect local accounting practices.



