Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3443 CHA
(Regional Cement Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NINGBO CEMENT COMPANY
TONGLING CEMENT COMPANY
ZHONGGUO CEMENT COMPANY
Dated July 9, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3443 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NINGBO CEMENT COMPANY, TONGLING CEMENT COMPANY AND ZHONGGUO 
CEMENT COMPANY (the Companies).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million seven 
hundred thousand dollars ($82,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Companies agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Ningbo Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality, and between Ningbo 
Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality and the Ningbo Company, the 
Tongling Company and the Zhongguo Company, respectively, a portion of the proceeds of 
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to the Companies on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS each of the Companies, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
Page  2
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Companies declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, the Ningbo Company shall carry
out Part A.2, the Tongling Company shall carry out Part A.1, and the Zhongguo Company 
shall carry out Part B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and cement industry 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for its
respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and each of the Companies shall otherwise agree, each of the 
Companies shall carry out its respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Companies shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each of the Companies shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the 
Companies shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to affect 
the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Companies shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its respective Part of the 
project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each of the Companies shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its respective Part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
each of the Companies of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Companies
Section 3.01. Each of the Companies shall carry on its operations and conduct 
its affairs in accordance with its Charter and sound administrative, financial and 
cement industry practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
Page  3
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each of the Companies shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and cement industry practices.
Section 3.03. Each of the Companies shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Section 3.04. The Ningbo Company and the Tongling Company shall inform the Bank 
promptly of any changes in the Ningbo Charter or the Tongling Charter, respectively, 
the joint venture agreements referred to in such Charters, or their respective 
management structures.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each of the Companies shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
Each of the Companies shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: 
(i)
none of the Companies shall incur any debt, unless a reasonable 
forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of such Company 
shows that the estimated net revenues of 
such Company for each 
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall 
be at 
least 1.2 times the estimated debt service requirements of such Company in 
such year on all debt of such Company including the debt to be incurred;
(ii)
none of the Companies shall incur any debt, if after the 
incurrence of such debt 
the ratio of debt to equity shall be 
greater than 75 to 25;
(iii)
each Company shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not 
less than 1.2;
 
(iv)
before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, each Company shall, 
on the basis of 
forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements 
set forth in sub-paragraph (iii) 
in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year 
and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and
(v)
if any such review shows that such Company would not meet the 
Page  4
requirements set 
forth in sub-paragraph (iii) for the fiscal 
years covered by such review, such 
Company shall promptly 
take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirements.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of such Company maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take
account of such Company's prices in effect at the time of 
the incurrence of 
debt even though they were not in effect 
during the twelve-month period to 
which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of such Company not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(vii)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course 
of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(viii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within 
twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(ix)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
Page  5
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. Each of the Companies shall prepare and review with the Bank, by 
October 31 of each year, starting October 31, 1992 and ending October 31, 1997, its 
five-year rolling financial plans, including production, marketing and investment 
plans, in the form of projected financial statements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each of the 
Companies thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each of the 
Companies thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Ningbo Company:
No. 62 Jiangdong Nan Lu
Ningbo Municipality
Zhejiang Province
People's Republic of China
For the Tongling Company:
Yaodun
Gusong Village
Tongling Municipality
Anhui Province
People's Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
4693
90516 TMPGA CN
Tongling, Anhui
For the Zhongguo Company:
Longtan County
Qixia District
Nanjing Municipality
Jiangsu Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
7901
34138 NBMIC CN
Nanjing, Jiangsu
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each of the 
Companies may be taken or
executed by its General Manager or such other person or persons as its General Manager 
shall designate in writing, and each of the Companies shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NINGBO CEMENT COMPANY
TONGLING CEMENT COMPANY
ZHONGGUO CEMENT COMPANY
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
 Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Page  7
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Items or groups of items for estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
2.
The provisions of paragraph 1(b) above shall not apply to contracts in respect 
of which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Companies in carrying out their respective Parts of the 
Project, each of the Companies shall employ consultants to provide technical services, 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Part A of the Project
 
1.
The Tongling Company shall enter into and thereafter implement the following 
contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, for the river transport facilities necessary to 
support Part A of the Project:
(a)
for the sale of clinker, between the Tongling Company and the Ningbo 
Company;
Page  8
(b)
for the sale of bulk cement, between the Tongling Company and the Nantong 
Building Materials Trading Company, and between the Tongling Company and the Wenzhou 
Building Materials Trading Company;
(c)
for the transport of clinker, among the Tongling Company, the Ningbo 
Company and the Shanghai Changjiang Shipping Company; and
(d)
for the transport of bulk cement, among the Tongling Company, the Anhui 
River and Sea Shipping Company, the Nantong Building Materials Trading Company and the 
Wenzhou Building Materials Trading Company.
B.
Parts A and B of the Project
 
1.
Each of the Companies shall maintain the Project management team established for 
the purposes of carrying out such Company's respective Part of the Project, with staff 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Each of the Companies shall carry out the training under Part (b) of its 
respective Part of the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank.
3.
Each of the Companies shall implement a management information system in 
accordance with scope and timing agreed with the Bank.
4.
Each of the Companies shall construct and operate the facilities under its 
respective Part of the Project with due regard to safety, ecological and environmental 
factors and in accordance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
