Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3443 CHA
(Regional Cement Industry Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 9, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3443 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)
Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project will be carried out by the Anhui 
Tongling Cement Company, Ningbo Beilun Cement Company and Zhongguo Cement Company (the 
Companies), respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Companies a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Companies;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Companies" means the Ningbo Company, the Tongling Company and the 
Zhongguo Company, collectively, and "Company" means any of the Companies;
(b)
"Hefei Institute" means the Hefei Cement Industry Design Institute, under 
SABMI;
(c)
"Nanjing Institute" means the Nanjing Cement Industry Design Institute, 
under SABMI;
(d)
"Ningbo Company" means the Ningbo Beilun Cement Company, a state 
enterprise of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Ningbo Charter;
(e)
"Ningbo Charter" means the Charter of the Ningbo Company, approved by the 
Ningbo Municipal Bureau of Building Materials Industry on January 8, 1992;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Ningbo 
Company, Tongling Company and Zhongguo Company of even date herewith, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Project Institutes" means the Hefei Institute, Nanjing Institute, 
Research Institute and the Tianjin Institute, collectively, and "Project Institute" 
means any of the Project Institutes;
(h)
"Research Institute" means the Research Institute of Cement, under SABMI;
 
(i)
"SABMI" means the Borrower's State Administration for Building Materials 
Industry, and any successor thereto;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the six agreements to be entered into: 
(1) between the Borrower and each of Ningbo Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing 
Municipality; and (2) between Ningbo Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing 
Municipality and the Ningbo Company, the Tongling Company and the Zhongguo Company, 
respectively, all pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements;
(l)
"Tianjin Institute" means the Tianjin Cement Industry Design Institute, 
under SABMI;
Page  3
(m)
"Tongling Company" means the Anhui Tongling Cement Company, a state 
enterprise of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Tongling 
Charter;
(n)
"Tongling Charter" means the Charter of the Tongling Company, approved by 
the Anhui Provincial Bureau of Building Materials Industry on January 8, 1992;
(o)
"tpy" means metric tons per year;
 
(p)
"Zhongguo Company" means the Zhongguo Cement Company, a state enterprise 
of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Zhongguo Charter; and
(q)
"Zhongguo Charter" means the Charter of the Zhongguo Company, approved by 
the Nanjing Municipal Bureau of Building Materials Industry on February 17, 1990.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty-two million seven hundred thousand dollars ($82,700,000), being 
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the 
Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and 
other charges on the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up 
to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
Page  4
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part C of the Project through SABMI, with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial 
practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Part of the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each 
of the Companies to perform all its 
obligations set forth in 
the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable each of the Companies to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Page  5
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall allow the Ningbo Company and the Tongling Company each to 
implement the shareholding system as provided in the Ningbo Charter and Tongling 
Charter, respectively, to the full extent permitted under applicable law.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Loan the 
equivalent of:
(i)
eight million dollars ($8,000,000) to the Ningbo Company, through 
Ningbo Municipality;
 
(ii)
forty-five million nine hundred thousand dollars ($45,900,000) to 
the Tongling 
Company, through Anhui Province; and
 
(iii)
twenty-five million two hundred thousand dollars ($25,200,000) to 
the Zhongguo 
Company, through Nanjing Municipality,
 
under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of 
Ningbo Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality, and between Ningbo 
Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality and the Ningbo Company, the 
Tongling Company and the Zhongguo Company, respectively, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include,
inter alia, those specified in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the relending terms and 
conditions shall include, inter alia: (i) interest payable at 110% of the variable 
rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) commitment charges calculated 
in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iii) repayment period of 15 years, 
including a grace period of five years; (iv) foreign exchange risk
to be borne by the respective Company; and (v) amortization of the interest during 
construction.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
to affect the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section.
(d)
The Borrower shall make three million six hundred thousand dollars 
($3,600,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Institutes 
through SABMI on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Group 
established within SABMI to coordinate the implementation of the Project, with staff 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, A.2 
and B of the Project shall be carried out by the Tongling Company, the Ningbo Company 
and the Zhongguo Company, respectively, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the river transport facilities 
necessary to support Part A of the Project are available in a timely manner, and, in 
particular, that the two bulk
receiving terminals at Nantong and Wenzhou, and the acquisition of the necessary 
clinker and bulk cement carriers, are completed by December 31, 1994.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the contracts for said river transport 
facilities are entered into and maintained in accordance with paragraph A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall allow the Companies to sell the output of 
facilities constructed under the Project directly and on the basis of market pricing.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Companies shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  7
that any of the Companies will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Ningbo Charter, the Tongling Charter or the Zhongguo Charter shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of the
respective Company to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Companies or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(e)
Any of the parties to the river transport contracts referred to in 
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement shall have failed to perform its 
obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement;
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, Ningbo Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality, and each of 
the Companies; and
(c)
the river transport contracts referred to in paragraph A.1 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement shall have been concluded by the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each 
of the Companies, and is legally binding upon each of the Companies in accordance with 
its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower, Ningbo Municipality, Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality and each 
of the Companies, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, Ningbo Municipality, 
Anhui Province and Nanjing Municipality and each of the Companies in accordance with 
their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  8
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Page  9
(1) Interest and               8,700,000        Amount due
    other charges on                            pursuant to
    the Loan accrued                            Section 2.02 (c)
    on or before                                of this
    April 30, 1996                              Agreement
Part A.1 of
the Project:
(2) Equipment                 33,300,000        100% of foreign
    and materials                               expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory) and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Technical                    100,000        100%
    services
(4) Training                     400,000        100%
(5) Unallocated                7,400,000
 Part A.2 of
the Project:
(6) Equipment                  5,600,000        100% of foreign
    and materials                               expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory) and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(7) Technical                    100,000        100%
    services
(8) Training                     200,000        100%
(9) Unallocated                1,200,000
Part B of
the Project:
(10)  Equipment               17,400,000        100% of foreign
      and materials                             expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory) and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(11)  Technical                  100,000        100%
      services
(12)  Training                   200,000        100%
(13)  Unallocated              4,400,000
Part C of
Page  10
the Project:
(14)  Equipment                2,700,000        100% of foreign
      and materials                             expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory) and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(15)  Technical                  300,000        100%
      services
(16)  Training                   600,000        100%
                              __________
         TOTAL                82,700,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (3), (7), (11) and (15) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after October 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) expanding 
cement production capacity based on economically viable technologies and scale; (b) 
improving product quality and production efficiency of existing cement plants in line 
with the country's increasing demand for high-grade cement; and (iii) strengthening 
domestic capabilities for research and design in the cement industry.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Tongling Cement Production and Distribution
 
1.
(a)
Construction and equipping of an integrated cement plant with 1.2 million 
tpy clinker capacity, a cement grinding line with 690,000 tpy processing capacity for 
high-strength cement, and a
clinker and bulk cement loading terminal at Tongling in Anhui Province; and (b) 
strengthening the management and staff capabilities of the Tongling Company, through 
training of staff and provision of technical services.
2.
(a)
Construction and equipping of a cement-grinding plant with 600,000 tpy 
processing capacity for clinker, and a clinker-receiving terminal, at Ningbo in 
Zhejiang Province; and (b) strengthening the management and staff capabilities of the 
Ningbo Company, through training of staff and provision of technical services.
Part B:
Zhongguo Plant Rehabilitation
 
Page  11
1.
(a)
Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of the Zhongguo cement plant 
at Nanjing in Jiangsu Province, including a dry-process line with 640,000 tpy 
capacity, opening of a limestone quarry and improving road, rail and electric power 
facilities; and (b) strengthening the management and staff capabilities of the 
Zhongguo Company, through training of staff and provision of technical services.
Part C:
Cement Industry Technical Assistance
 
1.
Strengthening domestic cement industry capabilities for cement material research 
and cement plant process engineering and design, at the Project Institutes, through 
provision of equipment, computer software, technical services and staff training and 
acquisition of technology.
2.
Undertaking a study of small-scale cement plants.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
November 1, 1997                          
1,510,000
May 1, 1998                               
1,565,000
November 1, 1998                          
1,625,000
May 1, 1999                               
1,690,000
November 1, 1999                          
1,755,000
May 1, 2000                               
1,825,000
November 1, 2000                          
1,895,000
May 1, 2001                               
1,965,000
November 1, 2001                          
2,045,000
May 1, 2002                               
2,120,000
November 1, 2002                          
2,205,000
May 1, 2003                               
2,290,000
November 1, 2003                          
2,375,000
May 1, 2004                               
2,470,000
November 1, 2004                          
2,565,000
May 1, 2005                               
2,665,000
November 1, 2005                          
2,765,000
May 1, 2006                               
2,875,000
November 1, 2006                          
2,985,000
May 1, 2007                               
3,100,000
November 1, 2007                          
3,220,000
May 1, 2008                               
3,345,000
November 1, 2008                          
3,475,000
May 1, 2009                               
3,610,000
November 1, 2009                          
3,745,000
May 1, 2010                               
3,890,000
November 1, 2010                          
4,040,000
May 1, 2011                               
4,200,000
November 1, 2011                          
4,360,000
May 1, 2012                               
4,525,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Page  12
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,700,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
Page  13
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.
The preceding paragraph 1(b) shall not apply to contracts in respect of which 
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants to provide technical services, whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause SABMI to carry out the staff training for the Project 
Institutes under Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the 
Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the Hefei Institute to carry out the study under Part 
C.2 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed with the 
Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2), (3), (4), (6), (7), 
(8), (10), (11), (12), (14), (15) and (16) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account  such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and  other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that anypayment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
Page  15
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
