Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONELY
Report No. 11362
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
NOVEMBER 25, 1992
Agricultrue Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Year                       Zaire per US$1.00
1980                               2.8
1981                               4.4
1982                               5.7
1983                               12.9
1984                              36.1
1985                              49.9
1986                              59.6
1987                              112.4
1988                              187.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
IDA          International Development Association
DAGP         Directorate for General Administration
MARD         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
ONDE         National Livestock Development Board
PCR          Project Completion Report
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 25, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zaire
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1 244-ZR)
Attached is a copy of a report entitled "Project Completion Report on Zaire -
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1 244-ZR)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office with Part 11 contributed by the Borrower.
This institution building project achieved many of its objectives in terms of training
and the production of important sectoral studies.  However, country conditions have
prevented the realization of significant project benefits. Accordingly, the project is rated as
marginally satisfactory.
The Project Completion Report is comprehensive and informative. No audit is
planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .......................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.1............... 
Project Identity ..........................................                                                   1
Background ............................................   1
Project Objectives and Description   .............................                                            2
Project Design and Organization  ...............................                                              2
Project Implementation  .....................................                                                 3
Project Results  ..........................................                                                   8
Project Sustainability  ......................................                                                8
Bank Performance ........................................                                                     8
Borrower Performance  .....................................                                                   9
Project Relationship  .......................................                                                 9
Consulting Services  .......................................    10
Project Documentation and Data  ...............................   11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... .... 12
PART  III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION    ............................    14
Table 1: Related Bank Credits   ................................    14
Table 2: Project Timetable   ..................................    15
Table 3: Credit Disbursements  ................................    16
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing  ............................    18
Table 5: Project Indicators   ..................................    19
Table 6: Status of Covenants  .................................    22
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources  ...............................   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project in Zaire for which Credit 1244-ZR in an amount of US$5 million
equivalent was approved on April 23, 1982. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1987, two
years later than the original closing date. The final disbursement was made on February 9,
1988 and an undisbursed balance of US$0.43 million equivalent was canceled.
Preparation of this PCR was started in October 1991 at the Bank's Resident Mission
in Kinshasa in the aftermath of major civil unrest in the country. The Preface, Evaluation
Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, South Central and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Region. Part II is
derived from comments by the Borrower on Parts I and III. The PCR is based, inter alia, on
the President's Report, Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



4I
I



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Agriculture has long been considered vital to Zaire's economy. However, its
contribution to GDP and exports has decreased significantly since independence. The decline
in agricultural production was attributed to a complex set of problems stemming from (a)
organizational and institutional weaknesses; (b) macroeconomic circumstances; (c)
misallocation of public finances; and (d) transportation and communication difficulties. In an
effort to taclde these problems the government launched the 1982 Agricultural Action Plan
and requested IDA to fund technical assistance to carry out the plan.
Qbjectives
2.    The project was designed to (i) strengthen the institutional framework of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD); (ii) strengthen MARD's capacity to
effectively implement agricultural projects; and (iii) assist the Government in its efforts to
address key policy issues which affected the performance of the agricultural sector. These
three components were to be complemented by measures to provide logistic support,
performance bonuses and training to selected MARD staff. Limited assistance was also to be
provided to the National Livestock Development Board (ONDE), as a follow-up on the first
livestock project (Credit 384-ZR) to consolidate institution-building achievements of the
previous eight years.
IhnImentation
3.    The credit became effective on November 30, 1982 and key project staff took up
duties as part of a special Ministerial planning team during 1983. However, a few months
later the Minister of Agriculture who had negotiated the project was replaced. His successor
assigned the project to the responsibility of the permanent senior civil servant in the Ministry,
the Secretary General. The project suffered a temporary loss of impetus. The special
Ministerial planning team never met again.
4.    IDA disbursed a total of US$4.5 million equivalent. Counterpart contribution from
the Government exceeded project projections by 25%, an indication of the good level of
political support the project enjoyed. A total of 132 man-months of long-term technical
assistance were funded under the project at a total cost of US$1.77 million or the equivalent
of US$13,400 per man month.



iv
5.    The project supported efforts to define a new agriculture sector strategy and to
improve the share of public resources to the agriculture sector. Resources were made
available for improved project supervision and monitoring. Funding was made available to
enable staff to travel to the interior of the country. Vehicles, office supplies and equipment
were funded as were a number of studies, which provided material for the Agriculture Sector
Five Year Plan (1985-90) and the Agriculture Sector Memorandum, and were the basis for
measures included in the Structural Adjustment program. Training was a major theme and
received considerable support. US$990,000 were spent on training, of which more than
US$500,000 on overseas training courses, which were expensive, at approximately
US$11,000 per trainee. There was little systematic follow-up on candidates who returned
from overseas. From 1985/86 onwards more emphasis was placed on local training and on
the use of local training institutes in Kinshasa, a more cost-effective use of funds.
6.    The payment of performance bonuses to some 50 Ministry of Agriculture staff was
included under the project. By the third year of project implementation, the Government
assumed 100 percent of the funding of the bonuses, which by then were applied to 260 staff.
The question of bonus payments represented a subject for frequent discussion and
disagreement. Introduction of performance bonus schemes in such a project cannot serve as
more than a temporary solution to the broader more generalized problem of inadequate
remuneration of civil servants.
Results
7.    The project was on balance successful although longer term benefits have been
compromised by an acute deterioration in the country situation since 1990. The funds from
the credit enabled the MARD to intensify its program and project supervision and monitoring
activities in the field. The presence of technical advisers assisted in upgrading the quality of
reflective and analytical work of the Cabinet and of the Studies and Planning Directorate.
The training courses provided Ministry staff with an improved capacity for project preparation
and economic analysis. Strengthening the project preparation and monitoring and evaluation
services of MARD and improved budget control procedures are among other major project
achievements.
8.    The most visible short-term impact of the project was that it provided a regular and
dependable source of funding for the normal recurrent activities of several Directorates of the
Ministry of Agriculture. It showed that, if resources are available, the Ministry of
Agriculture in Zaire can function effectively and can upgrade the quality of its activities by
regular and effective training programs for its personnel.
9.    The project could have been more successful if there had been a less frequent turnover
of agriculture ministers during the project life. By integrating the project into the regular
administrative structure in 1984 a better opportunity was provided for long-term institutional
development. Unfortunately, little was made of this opportunity since successive ministers
saw the project as a source of funding for their most pressing needs, without giving attention
to the original objectives and orientation of the project.
Sustainability
10.   Efforts started under this project are not sustainable under present conditions. Zaire
is in the midst of a severe political economic and social crisis which will take time to resolve.



V
The staff which has been trained and the methods developed under the project will be most
useful once a Government committed to development is in place.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   The main lessons from the First Agricultural Technical Assistance project are as
follows:
(a) Targeting project design - individuals or institutions ? - There is an inherent
contradiction between capacity building and designing a project around the political
personality of the Minister of Agriculture. The benefits of such an approach as
perceived at project appraisal proved to be short-lived. The long term benefits of the
project could have been more durable if the permanent directorates of Ministry of
Agriculture had been targeted from the start.
(b) Project Implementation unit - As a separate unit, with considerable resources and a
growing number of staff, the Project Implementation Unit did not make a major
contribution to institutional strengthening of the MARD's technical directorates. Its
existence created tensions and jealousies and exposed the project to excessive claims
for resources from the Minister's office, which would have been avoided if the Unit
had been more discrete and project activities and resources closer integrated within
operational technical directorates. The follow-up project took this into account.
(c) Performance Bonuses - Introduction of performance bonus schemes in such a
project cannot serve as more than a temporary solution to the broader more
generalized problem of inadequate remuneration of civil servants. Given the
complications created between donor funded programs and the inequity caused by the
attribution of bonuses to a privileged number of employees of a Ministry, it would
have been preferable to tackle the main problem of inadequate remuneration directly.
The follow-up project included a study of the overall staffing and conditions of service
as one of its objectives.
(d) Independent or company-supplied long term technical assistance ? - The project
never succeeded in proving the merits of passing a single contract with one company
for the long term technical assistance, as was recommended during project
preparation. No hard and fast rules can be laid down on this question. The most cost-
effective TA contract was with an independent consultant.
(e) Overseas training versus local training - Local in-country training using specialists
from overseas are more cost-effective and provide access to training for a much
greater number of beneficiaries than individual overseas training grants. The
experience of the Agricultural Technical Assistance was conclusive on this point.






I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name        Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
Credit Name         1244-ZR
RVP Unit            South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Sector       :      Agriculture
Sub-Sector          Institution building
2. Background
Sector Development Objectives
1.1    Agriculture has long been considered vital to Zaire's economy. At the time of the
preparation of the present project the sector provided employment and support to 70-75% of
the active population and represented the main source of activity for a large segment of the
manufacturing sector which employed a further 10% of the population in the early 1980s.
Successive Governments and donors have insisted on the importance of the development of
the sector for the economy as a whole, particularly once the copper resources start to dry up.
Policy Context
1.2   The decline in agricultural production was attributed to a complex set of problems
stemming from (a) organizational and institutional weaknesses; (b) macroeconomic
circumstances; (c) misallocation of public finances; and (d) transportation and communication
difficulties. In an effort to tackle these problems the government launched an Agricultural
Action Plan in 1982. This Plan was designed to stimulate short-term recovery: first by
removing critical bottlenecks, notably inconsistent or inappropriate policies or inadequate
allocation of limited foreign exchange; second by making on-going projects and programs
work better; and third by specific efforts to encourage small farmers and private companies to
produce and market food crops, cotton, palm oil and sugar for local industries and coffee and
forestry products for export. The Plan included measures to strengthen the institutional
support for agricultural policies and investments, by setting up clear procedures for Cabinet-
level coordination of agricultural policy under the leadership of the Minister of Agriculture
and Rural Development (MARD) and by introducing a better planning system. It envisaged
an in-depth evaluation of the financial management and budgeting system and proposed that an
appropriate reorganization of MARD's services should be undertaken accompanied by staff



2
training and the engagement of suitable technical assistance to establish new operating
procedures. The Plan also envisaged a review of critical issues affecting agriculture,
including the introduction of measures to improve ongoing project implementation,
particularly the development of effective mechanisms for project supervision and monitoring.
To help in these initiatives, the Government requested the Bank to fund a technical assistance
project.
2. Project Objectives and Description
2.1    Project Objectives. The project was designed to (i) strengthen the institutional
framework of MARD; (ii) strengthen MARD's capacity to effectively implement agricultural
projects; and (iii) assist the Government in its efforts to address key policy issues which affect
the performance of the agricultural sector. These three components were to be complemented
by measures to provide logistic support, performance bonuses and training to selected MARD
staff. Limited assistance was also to be provided to the National Livestock Development
Board (ONDE), as a follow-up on the first livestock project (Credit 384-ZR) to consolidate
institution-building achievements of the previous eight years.
2.2    Long-term technical assistance was proposed to strengthen MARD's planning
capability. A planner was to be recruited as a senior advisor to the Minister. A second
internationally recruited expert was to be key advisor to the Director of Planning. A third
long term technical assistant was included to strengthen project implementation. Additionally
short term consultancies were proposed to help with the preparation of a three year investment
plan, to improve budgetary formulation and management practices, to advise the monitoring
and evaluation unit, and to advise the working groups established to study agricultural credit,
incentive systems for the private sector, pricing policies, food crop marketing, research,
extension and training. Funding was provided to purchase vehicles and equipment, to meet
the costs of local and overseas training and seminars and for field supervision missions.
3. Project Design and Organization
3.1    Project processing. A request from the Minister of Agriculture, Cleophas Kamitatu
Massamba, recently returned from exile and an outspoken opponent of the regime until his
appointment, was received by the Bank in December 1980, asking for assistance in the
implementation of the Agriculture Action Plan. The new Minister brought a spirit of reform
to the Ministry and was open to outside expertise. The Bank reacted promptly and in
May/June 1981, sent an appraisal mission to Zaire. Negotiations were held in Washington in
March 1982; the Government delegation was headed by the Minister of Agriculture in person.
The project was presented to the Board on May 11, 1982.
3.2    Project design. The main element of project design was that the planning and project
preparation function of MARD should be strengthened by providing support for an integrated
team of local and foreign experts working close to the Minister. In this way the planning
team had the political support necessary to ensure that decisions would be carried out.
Governments in Zaire have been notably short-lived. This project was designed around the
person of the Minister, MARD, and there was an implicit assumption that he would remain in
post long enough for the work of the planning team to make an impact or that his successor



3
would share his enthusiasm for centralized planning and decision-making. In the event,
neither happened.
3.3    Project Organization. Direct project management responsibility was to lie with
MARD. Responsibilities for the implementation of the individual components was vested in
the directors of the different services concerned (i.e., planning, project administration, finance
and budgeting, etc.), assisted by the technical assistants funded under the project. The
externally-recruited senior planner was to be a senior advisor to the Minister, MARD; both he
and the project implementation specialist were to be members of the planning unit, which was
to be set up as part of the Minister's office and was to comprise of senior staff of MARD.
One of the Minister's close advisors was to be nominated Project Coordinator and was to be
responsible for the day to day operations of the project. Annual work programs were to be
prepared in advance of each new year and submitted for approval to IDA. Studies were to be
carried out initially by consultants who were expected to train local staff.
3.4    Loan Committee comments. The Loan Committee was concerned with three topics
which were to remain subjects of concern throughout the project's life namely: (a) concern
with thI  payment of performance bonuses out of the Credit; the Loan Committee questioned
the Government's ability to continue these bonuses once it was to assume 100 per cent of the
cost; (b) the problem of ensuring that staff returning from expensive overseas training would
remain in the Ministry; following negotiations, it was agreed that all staff benefitting from
overseas training would sign a contract with the Ministry stating that they would work for at
least five years with the Ministry upon return; (c) the Committee recommended that a single
consulting firm should be used to provide the long term advisers.
4. Project Implementation
4.1    The credit became effective on November 30, 1982, a delay of less than five months.
Start-up of activities had benefitted from a Project Preparation Facility. Key project staff
(local and expatriate) were selected and took up duties during 1983. A ministerial-level
planning team started regular meetings to which the expatriate staff contributed actively. In
November 1983, Minister Kamitatu was replaced by Minister Nyembo Shabani, whose
management style differed fundamentally from his predecessor's. He reassigned the project
technical assistance unit and the project coordinator to the Secretary General's office. The
proposal was not without merit since it rendered the project potentially less vulnerable to
changes of Minister. However, the decision also created a loss of impetus for the project
while the interdepartmental relationships with the project and project staff were being
redefined. The project coordinator was soon reassigned to become project manager of
another IDA-funded project (Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project, Cr. 1152-ZR) and
was replaced by one of the technical assistants, who for the next eighteen months, found his
time taken up more by administrative work than with project preparation and training
activities. The Ministerial planning team never met again.
4.2    A project unit was established, consisting of 21 local staff, that were recruited to
provide logistic and technical support to the project coordinator and the expatriate technical
assistance staff.
4.3    Credit extensions. Following an initial extension from December 31, 1985 to August
31, 1986 a second extension of the Credit was granted to June 30, 1987, to permit the
completion of studies started in preparation of the 5-year Agricultural Development Plan and



4
the agriculture sector adjustment measures. Agreement to this second extension was made on
condition that the funds disbursed during this period would be limited to the disbursement
categories necessary for the studies for which the extension was requested.
4.4   Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs were estimated at US$6 million at
appraisal, of which IDA was to fund US$5 million and the Government US$1 million. IDA
disbursed a total of US$4.5 million equivalent. Counterpart contribution from the
Government was the equivalent of US$1.26 million between 1983 and 1987, thus exceeding
project projections by 25%, an indication of the good level of political support the project
enjoyed. During the last two years of project implementation the contribution of the
Government considerably exceeded the amount originally included in the annual work
programs, due in part to the good relationship between the new Zairian project coordinator
and the Minister.
4.5    Estimated and actual disbursements of Cr. 1244-ZR are presented in Table 4, Part III.
Disbursements were slow during the first year of the project but picked up following the
recruitment of the expatriate technical assistance during the second year. Disbursements were
completed over five and a quarter years, compared with four years at appraisal. T'he last
disbursement took place on February 9, 1988, at which time the balance of US$0.43 million
was canceled.
4.6    A total of 132 man-months of long-term technical assistance was funded under the
project at a total cost of US$1.77 million or the equivalent of US$13,400 per man month.
This includes all costs of the technical assistance including mobilization, housing and local
transport.
4.7   Project Annual Budgets and Auditing. Project staff presented regular work programs
and annual reports showing projected expenditures and actual funding allocation for each year
of the project. Annual work programs were submitted to the Bank towards the end of each
fiscal year. The programs were generally very ambitious and priorities had to be fixed to
ensure a minimum of achievements each year. Minor reservations were made each year by
the auditors on how to improve accounting practices and persistent reminders to introduce a
system of vehicle log books to control use of project vehicles. In 1985 the Ministry made
available funds for the purchase of six vehicles which were not included in the annual budget
and for which IDA had declined to pay. The 1987 audit pointed out an overpayment of more
than $80,000 to a firm of consultants who fielded one of the long-term technical assistants.
The funds were later reimbursed by the company. To the extent that the project received
regular funding from the national budget, unlike many other projects, the project coordinator
was frequently called upon to make "loans" to other projects for such expenditures as
missions to Kinshasa by project staff. The auditors drew attention to this tendency, which did
not in fact have any serious implications for the execution of the project itself.
Implementation of Individual Components
4.8   Policy Review workine groups. Working groups were established early on to review
policy on the following topics: Prices and Marketing; Agricultural Roads; Livestock;
Agricultural Statistics; Applied research; Agricultural Extension; the Private Sector; and the
National Seeds Plan. One of the major contributions of the policy working groups was the
opportunity provided to officials and staff to discuss common concerns. Unfortunately, the
agenda for the meetings was heavy and failed to focus on key issues, resulting in a dispersion



5
of efforts and little impact of the decisions taken. The analytical work done in preparation of
the working group sessions was frequently insufficient and failed to lead to follow-up actions
and decisions.
4.9    Action Plan on Budget and Financial Management. Finally prepared in 1985, only
after it had been made a condition of effectiveness of the Lulua Agricultural Development
Credit (Cr. 1540-ZR), the Budget and Financial Action Plan was designed to identify steps by
which MARD would obtain better treatment during the annual budget exercise by the
Ministries of Finance and Plan. Once finalized, however, the plan was never really
implemented due in part to a lack of involvement and participation by the Ministries of
Finance, Budget and Plan in its preparation. It was only with the introduction of the annual
Public Investment Program review between the Govermnent and the Bank, that the agriculture
sector achieved a more significant proportion of the public investment budget (an increase
from less than 1% to about 10% in 1988). However, more funds did not mean better projects
and attention turned to improving the quality of the agriculture portfolio, on which little
progress was made.
4.10   Project supervision and monitorine. Support for the project supervision and
monitoring activities of MARD concentrated on the strengthening of the Directorate for
General Administration of projects (DAGP). One long-term technical assistant was assigned
to this Directorate. Availability of funds under the credit for the purchase of air tickets and
for the payment of subsistence expenses permitted the intensification of project supervision
and monitoring activities and the introduction of a common financial management and control
system. This was started on a pilot basis and later extended to most of the agricultural
projects. Despite some progress in project supervision and monitoring from the improved
capacity to travel upcountry, the lack of qualified local staff and sporadic shortages of funding
for field supervision missions slowed achievements on this component. Signals from the
Secretary General were also unclear with regard to project supervision responsibility. Under
a Canadian-assisted project, the Secretary General's office received parallel support which
enabled him, among other things to undertake independent project monitoring and inspections.
4.11   Little progress was made on improving the capacity of the Ministry to redimension its
public investment program during the project period. One reason seems to have been the
preoccupation of the project implementation and monitoring specialist with introducing day-to-
day improvements in project activities (such as the financial budget and management system
as opposed to a broader analysis of the usefulness and contribution of the total project
portfolio. The limited qualifications and experience of the technical assistant were in part
responsible.
4.12   Logistic Support. Twenty vehicles were purchased and distributed to MARD's main
Directorates. Three four-wheel drive vehicles were also purchased to improve the capacity of
the Planning and Studies Directorate and the Administrative Services Directorate to carry out
field trips to projects in the Bas Zaire and Bandundu regions. As costs of maintaining these
vehicles rose in the later years of the project, a buy-back scheme was introduced by which the
users of the vehicles became owners after a given period of time, receiving a monthly
allowance for the use of the vehicle for official purposes.
4.13   Studies. The project placed a considerable emphasis in the early years on preparation
of studies. Four livestock sub-sector studies were commissioned but were not followed up by
any subsequent investment project. A study on agricultural staff deployment was used in the



6
preparation of the Pilot Agricultural Extension project (Cr. 2096-ZR). From 1985 onwards,
the project became the main vehicle for commissioning studies which were to provide (i) the
background information for the Bank's Agricultural Sector Memorandum and (ii) the basis for
the orientation of the sector strategy under the structural adjustment program which was
adopted in 1985/86. Priority was given to the effects of liberalization since 1982/83, ways of
improving private sector involvement in the sector (particularly in input distribution and
livestock development) and on preparing new projects for the public investment pipeline. An
early study, using local consultants examined the impact of price liberalization on farmers'
activities up-country and concluded that in spite of the introduction of the liberalization
process three years earlier, many farmers, (up to 70 per cent in the hinterland of Kinshasa),
were unaware that prices were no longer fixed and that produce could be marketed freely.
This was followed by three studies on agricultural inputs, on rationalization of export
procedures and on the relative competition of the production of major agricultural crops.
These led to concrete policy decisions and project preparation activities (perennial crops
project).
4.14   Support for agricultural statistics. The need for improved agricultural statistics in
Zaire had long been recognized. However, opinions on how best to improve agricultural
statistics collection were varied, particularly between representatives of the donor community.
The project provided direct and indirect support to a United Nations Development
Program/Food and Agricultural Organization project, which was finally launched to establish
a permanent agricultural statistics collection service.
4.15    Training. A working group on training was established in 1982 and initially met
regularly for the first six months of the project but a supervision mission noted that the
meetings lacked guidance, support and a work program, and gradually interest in the work
group waned. A Ministry-wide survey of training needs failed due to poor planning and
insufficient processing capacity. In 1983, a training coordinator was recruited to try to ensure
more efficient use of training resources managed by the project. Later this post was
suppressed, when a separate Training Division was created within the Studies and Planning
Directorate. Unfortunately, neither the training coordinator nor the training division
succeeded in preparing a comprehensive long-term training program for the Ministry.
Notwithstanding, more than US$990,000 were spent in support of both local and overseas
training.
4.16   A total of 46 candidates were sent on short term overseas training courses. Courses
rarely exceeded three months and average costs, including travel, were approximately
US$11,000 per course. Those courses included budget management, financial analysis,
computers and project financial management, agricultural statistics, project monitoring and
evaluation, identification and planning of projects, data analysis and agriculture sector
decision-making. Other courses on animal health, cooperatives, agricultural extension,
preparation of animal feedstuffs, soil types and fertilizers and animal traction were orientated
more to technical implementation subjects rather than project planning, implementation and
evaluation ends. All candidates signed a document before leaving undertaking to return to
work for MARD for a period of not less than five years. In almost all cases, this undertaking
has been respected, in part due to the dearth of alternative employment opportunities in Zaire
during recent years.
4.17   The overseas training program was expensive. There was little systematic follow-up
on candidates who returned from training either in terms of course reports nor of developing



7
improved career opportunities. A proposal to use returning trainees to conduct similar
courses locally was not followed up on. Some irregularities were encountered. For example,
one candidate succeeded in being admitted for two simultaneous courses (one paid for
USAID), for which he received double airfare and per diem.
4.18   From 1985/86 onwards more emphasis was placed on local training and on the use of
local training institutes in Kinshasa. The Kinshasa training seminars were organized to
coincide with preparation and review deadlines of annual budgets and senior project staff were
able to be present in Kinshasa to defend their budgets. This was previously a rare privilege,
given the shortage of travel funds. Outside specialists were brought in to animate some of
these training sessions. This represented a more cost-effective use of project training funds,
than the overseas training courses.
4.19   Eight major seminars were organized by the project between 1983 and 1986: three on
budget procedures and accounting, one on agricultural extension techniques, one on project
management, two on project planning and one on animal traction.
4.20   Performance Bonuses. The project originally envisaged the payment of performance
bonuses to some 50 Ministry of Agriculture staff. IDA funding was provided on the basis of
a diminishing scale, whereby the Government would meet 100 per cent of these bonuses after
the end of the third year of the project. The limit on 50 staff was lifted early in the project
and was replaced by a limit of the dollar amount included in the Credit. The numbers of staff
benefitting increased from 60 in 1983 to more than 250 in 1987. Responsibility for setting
the levels of the bonuses was left with the Ministry. By the third year of the project the
Government had assumed 100 percent of the funding of the bonuses.
4.21   For lack of a clear policy, the question of bonus payments represented a subject for
frequent discussion and disagreement. The fact was that the project was cofinanced by the
Bank facilitated the process of approval of funds from the Ministry of Finance for salary
supplements (which is what the bonuses amounted to) under the Investment budget,
particularly when the Government had to assume 100 percent of funding. However, only a
privileged number of staff benefitted from the bonuses. Certain technical directorates were
not included, thus raising bad feelings between those who benefitted and those who did not.
The situation was complicated by the fact that other donor agencies either paid other levels of
bonuses to their project staff (United States Agency for International Development; USAID),
or were not permitted to accept payment of bonuses under their projects (United Nations
Development Program; UNDP). No single system of criteria for payment of the bonuses was
established in spite of attempts to reconcile the USAID proposals with those under the IDA
credit.
4.22  Introduction of performance bonus schemes in such a project cannot serve as more
than a temporary solution to the broader more generalized problem of inadequate
remuneration of civil servants. Given the complications created between donor funded
programs and the inequality created by the attribution of bonuses to a privileged number of
employees of a Ministry, it would have been preferable to invest more time and effort to
tackle the policy issue of inadequate remuneration directly.
4.23   Financial management systems. Some progress was made in introducing a project
financial management and monitoring system, but collaboration by individual project directors
was muted, given the paucity of funding which they received from the annual budget exercise.



8
Priority was given by most participating project managers to short-term survival rather than to
long-term planning.
5. Project Results
5.1    During the period of implementation, the project was on balance successful. The
longer term benefits of the project are, however, being erased by the deterioration in general
country conditions. The funds from the credit enabled MARD to intensify its program and
project supervision and monitoring activities in the field. The presence of technical advisers
assisted in upgrading the quality of reflective and analytical work of the Cabinet and of the
Studies and Planning Directorate. Some of the training courses provided Ministry staff with
an improved capacity for project preparation and economic analysis. This was evidenced in
the preparation of position papers in support of the structural adjustment changes which were
introduced later during the project. Strengthening the project preparation and monitoring and
evaluation services of MARD and improved budget control procedures are among other major
project achievements.
5.2    The most visible short-term impact of the project was that because it provided a
regular and dependable source of funding for the normal recurrent activities of several
Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry could function effectively. It
permitted MARD to provide regular training to a number of its staff and thereby start a
process of upgrading. It led to the publication of studies which contributed to firm measures
introduced under the adjustment program. Changes slowly began to be introduced to on-
going projects due to improved monitoring and supervision by the DAGP.
5.3    Though project implementation was affected by the departure of Minister Kamitatu,
integrating the project activities into the regular administrative structure in 1984 created a
better opportunity for long-term institutional development. However, little was made of this
opportunity since successive Ministers saw the project as a source of funding for their most
pressing needs, without giving sufficient attention to the original capacity-building objectives.
6. Project Sustainability
6.1    Efforts started under this project are not sustainable under present conditions. Zaire
is in the midst of a severe political economic and social crisis which will take time to resolve.
The staff which has been trained and the methods developed under the project will be most
useful once a Governrent committed to development is in place.
7. Bank Performance
7.1    The Bank reacted swiftly when Minister Kamitatu asked for outside expertise in 1981
to strengthen the planning capacity of his office. At a time when unsolicited requests for such
assistance were rare from Zaire, it was perhaps understandable that the project design
concentrated on providing support to the Minister and his direct entourage. However, it
turned out to be an unsustainable element of project design and only later the project reverted
to strengthening the lower more permanent echelons of the Ministry's project planning and
monitoring structure.



9
7.2    During early supervision, Bank staff devoted considerable time explaining the
objectives of the project. There was intensive participation by staff and consultants in initial
seminars organized to introduce proposals for strengthening the budget and financial
management system. Mission and consultant reports following these interventions were
distributed broadly to the Government Ministries involved but there was little response or
reaction. It was only during later years of the project that these reports resurfaced and efforts
to implement changes started.
7.3    Up until 1987, standard supervision of the project was assured by regular missions
from Washington. From late 1987, with the creation of the post of Agriculture Country
Officer in the Bank's Resident Mission in Kinshasa, supervision was conducted on a day-to-
day basis from the Resident Mission. This meant increased Bank participation in the regular
meetings held to review project progress. There was also a significant reorientation of the
direction of work priorities from this time, as attention turned to the preparation of studies for
the structural adjustment program.
8. Borrower Performance
8.1    MARD recognized the importance of this project from an early stage and gave it full
support, as demonstrated by the levels of local funding, which were exceptional for externally
supported projects in the agriculture sector in Zaire. Technical assistance staff were provided
with offices, transportation and other facilities within a reasonable delay of their arrival and
were given such support as might be expected to enable them to carry out their tasks. The
Ministry could have obtained a better contribution from the first team of technical assistants
particularly in training local staff. An intensive effort to associate local staff in studies and
project preparation began with the replacement of the Planning adviser.
8.2    Lessons drawn from the experience of this project were adopted by the Government in
the design of the second phase project (currently in operation) and have resulted in a better
use of both local and expatriate staff and the deployment of project resources.
9. Project Relationship
9.1    The project drew its roots from a close and mutually appreciative relationship between
staff of the Bank and Minister for MARD, Kamitatu. As such, the objectives during
preparation, negotiation and early effectiveness were well understood by all parties. With the
replacement of the Minister, relations between successive Bank supervision missions aad
MARD deteriorated. The Ministry of Agriculture and project staff adopted a more aggressive
attitude to the Bank, following communication to the government of IDA's reluctance to
extend the credit because of alleged misuse of project funds by the Minister's office and
changes in project staffing and structure without prior consultation with the Bank. A period
of clarification followed and the credit closing date was finally extended and a notable
improvement followed in relations between the Bank and the government and in project
implementation.



10
10. Consulting Services
10.1   Both the Loan Committee of the Bank and the Ministry favored recruiting technical
assistance from one source (i.e., through one company). Risks appeared too high to recruit
individual consultants. In the event, the initial three long-term consultants to the Ministry
were recruited from two separate consultant companies. Costs per man/year were high
(almost US$20,000 per man month in one case) and support from the consulting companies
themselves was minimum, comprising little more than a visit by a representative of the
company once a year to discuss opportunities for future work. By far the best performance
came from an independent consultant, who was recruited to the Planning and Studies
Directorate in 1986 to replace the senior planner whose contract was not renewed. Not only
were his services considerably cheaper (US$9,000 per man/month) but he created a much
more participative environment in the workplace and launched many young economists on
their first experiences with a personal computer or on preparation of analytical studies.
10.2  Senior Policy Advisor. He made a significant contribution to ensure the smooth
operations of the project and devoted time and energy to annual reports, budgets and other
duties which should have been assumed by the project coordinator. His performance was
satisfactory and he provided useful inputs in the preparation of project studies and sector
work.
10.3  Senior Planning Advisor. According to his original terms of reference, the first
advisor in this post was to help the Studies and Planning Service to redefine its
responsibilities, coordinate technical assistance from different sources and develop an
agricultural strategy. Some initial opposition from technical assistance personnel funded from
other sources at being 'coordinated," prompted the advisor to devote his efforts to preparing
an agricultural sector development plan. Little became of this plan, which, like much of the
rest of his work, was prepared in isolation of counterpart staff in the Planning and Studies
directorate. He took little account of advice offered him by visiting supervision missions, and
spent an inadequate amount of time in the field. At the end of a three year contract he was
replaced by a dynamic and participation-orientated advisor, who made a major contribution to
improving the output of the Planning and Studies Division and to redefining the limits of the
public investment program for the agriculture sector.
10.4  Project Monitoring and Management Consultant. The consultant was to help with
project procurement and logistical problems and training Ministry staff in these areas.
Following a redefinition of the responsibilities of this post, he turned his attention to
reorganize the DAGP and strengthening its monitoring and supervision capacity. His
qualifications were more as financial accountant and he made only a modest contribution to
introducing project monitoring and control systems.
10.5  Technical Assistance for ONDE. The project included funds for meeting the costs of
the extension by 12 months each of two technical assistance posts (procurement adviser and
livestock officer) which had been funded under an earlier credit (Cr. 398-ZR) in support of
the ONDE. ONDE did little to maximize benefits from this assistance. It would have been
better to have provided senior financial and management expertise for two or more years to
supervise and improve the financial management of the institution and ensure training than to
provide the short term extensions included under the project.



11
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.1  The project was carried out in conformity with the legal agreements signed between
the Government and the Bank. A minor modification was included in the Credit agreement to
enable the credit to meet the costs of the national project coordinator who was, although
recruited externally, a national of Zaire.
11.2   No project completion report was prepared by the Government though the preparation
of the second phase drew many lessons from implementation of the project. The documents
used for the preparation of this report were available in Bank records in Washington and in
the Zaire Resident mission. The annual reports provide a good source of factual information
of the achievements of the project.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government had comments on two paragraphs of the text. These comments are
shown below as underlined text.
Evaluation Summary
9.    The project could have been more successful if there had been a less frequent turnover
of agriculture ministers over the life of the project. The solutions that the project sought to
implement reauired the continuity of agricultural strategy and active support by the Minister
in order to have an impact. Assigning responsibility of the project to the Secretary-General
did not improve the impact of the proiect. since ministerial approval was still reauired for the
implementation of the recommendations. However, by integrating the project structure into
the regular administrative structure in 1984, a better opportunity was provided for long-term
institutional development. Unfortunately, little was made of this opportunity since successive
Ministers saw the project as a source of funding for their office. thus neglecting the original
objectives and orientation of the project.
Main Text
4.1    The credit became effective on November 30, 1982, a delay of less than five months.
Start-up of activities had benefitted from a Project Preparation Facility. Key project staff
(local and expatriate) were selected and took up duties during 1983. A ministerial-level
planning team started regular meetings to which the expatriate staff contributed actively. In
November 1983, Minister Kamitatu was replaced by Minister Nyembo Shabani, whose
management style differed fundamentally from his predecessor's. He reassigned the project
technical assistance unit and the project coordinator to the Secretary General's office. The
proposal was not without merit since it rendered the project potentially less vulnerable to
changes of Minister. However, the decision also created a loss of impetus for the project
while the interdepartmental relationships with the project and project staff were being
redefined. The project coordinator was soon reassigned to become project manager of
another IDA-funded project (Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project, Cr. 1152-ZR) and
was replaced by one of the technical assistants, who for the next eighteen months, found his
time taken up more by administrative work than with project preparation and training
activities. The Ministerial planning team never met again. He eventually resigned. following
complaints from bilateral donor agencies. who accused him of bias towards French bilateral



13
4.2    Following the departure of Minister Nyembo. a new project coordinator was
appointed who was also Director of the Minister's Cabinet. The project again fell under the
direct responsibility of the Minister.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1244-ZR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Credits
Title                                                     Purpose                      Approved                 Status
Cotton Rehabilitation Project                Improvement of cotton production.         09/04/76           Closed on 12/31/83
(Cr. 0660-ZR)
Livestock Development Project                Livestock improvement.                    04/12/77           Closed on 06/30/83
(Cr. 0697-ZR)
Oil Palm Project                             Oil palm production augmentation          05/02/78           Closed on 12/31/87
(Cr. 0796-ZR)                                project.
Smallholder Maize Project                    Maize production augmentation             06/05/80           Closed on 06/30/90
(Cr. 1040-ZR)                                project.
Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project                   Sugar production augmentation              12/23/80          Closed on 12/31/87
(Cr. 1089-ZR)                                project.
Agriculture Sector Management and            Follow up technical assistance             10/20/88               Ongoing
Institutional Development Project            project



15
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                        December 1980
Appraisal                                             May/June 1981
Negotiations                                          March 29-31, 1982
Board Presentation                                    May 11, 1982
Credit Signature                                      May 20, 1982
Credit Effectiveness         July 19, 1982            November 30, 1982
Credit Closing               December 31, 1985        June 30, 1987
Last Disbursement            June 30, 1986            February 9, 1988
Project Completion           June 30, 1985            June 30, 1987



16
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
A. Disbursements by Category
(in SDR '000)
Category                                   Appraisal Estimate                Actual
Consultants
Part A through E                               1,530.00                    1,602.47
Part F (ONDE)                                   460.00                       171.43
Fellowships
Part A through E                                320.00                      720.94
Part F (ONDE)                                    50.00                       135.70
Vehicles and Equipment
Part A through E                                260.00                      267.29
Part F                                           50.00                       95.50
Studies and Audits                               770.00                      770.20
Logistics                                        160.00                      115.72
Bonuses                                          160.00                       73.12
Refinancing of Project Preparation Facility      540.00                      145.32
Unallocated                                      200.00
TOTAL                                           4,500.00                    4,097.68
Cancellation                                                                 386.27



17
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
B. Disbursements by Ouarter
(in SDR '000)
Fiscal Year and     Estimated      Estimated Cumulative     Actual         Actual Cumulative    Actual Cumulative as a %
Quarter        Disbursements      Disbursements       Disbursements       Disbursements      of Estimated Cumulative
82 IV              270.00              270.00              0.00                 0.00                  0%
83 I               382.50              652.50              0.00                 0.00                  0%
83 II              382.50             1,035.00            145.32               145.32                 14%
83 III             382.50             1,417.50             34.66               179.98                 13%
83 IV              382.50             1,800.00             10.00               189.97                 11%
84 1               450.00             2,250.00            215.42              405.40                  18%
84 11              450.00             2,700.00            125.51              530.91                  20%
84 III             450.00             3,150.00            360.65              891.57                  28%
84 IV              450.00             3,600.00             99.16              990.72                  28%
85 1               225.00             3,825.00            163.66             1,154.38                 30%
85 II              225.00             4,050.00            225.27             1,379.65                 34%
85 III             225.00             4,275.00             86.55             1,466.20                 34%
85 IV              225.00             4,500.00            580.20             2,046.41                 45%
86 1                                  4,500.00             67.33             2,113.74                 47%
86 II                                 4,500.00            362.00             2,475.74                 55%
86 III                                4,500.00            337.78             2,813.52                 63%
86 IV                                 4,500.00             64.96             2,878.48                 64%
87 I                                  4,500.00            402.84             3,281.33                 73%
87 II                                 4,500.00            109.43             3,390.75                 75%
87 III                                4,500.00            170.11             3,560.86                 79%
87 IV                                 4,500.00            180.57             3,741.43                 83%
88 I                                  4,500.00            249.74             3,991.17                 89%
88 II                                 4,500.00             78.66             4,069.83                 90%
88 III                                4,500.00             27.85             4,097.68                 91%
A further SDR 16,049.82 has been disbursed through balance adjustment entries.



18
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs 1/
('000 of US$)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Technical Assistance                       3,120                      2,102
Training                                    480                        990
Staff Costs & Logistics                    1,335                      1,858
Studies                                     950                        735
Audit                                       125                         75
TOTAL                                      6,010                      5,760
B. Project Financing
(millions of US$)
Appraisal     Actual    Actual as %
Estimate                of Estimate
Government of Zaire      1.00        1.26 m        126%
IDA                      5.00        4.50 m        90%
TOTAL                    6.00        5.76 m        96%
1/    Actual costs per category are estimates only.



19
Table 5: Project Indicators
A. Long term TA posts       Man-months          Cost per Man-month 1/
Appraisal     Actual       Appraisal     Actual
1SS
Senior planner              36    36             18,000        16,500
Planning adviser            36    60             15,000        10,700
Project implementation
specialist                 36      36            15,000        13,500
Animal production expert    12    12             12,500        7,150
Procurement manager/ONDE  12    12               12,500        7,150
Establishment of            Foreseen      Qperational   Current
Working Groups              at Appraisal   during project Status
Prices and Marketing        Yes          Yes           Defunct
Agricultural Roads          Yes          Yes           Defunct
Livestock                   Yes          Yes           Defunct
Agricultural Statistics     Yes          Yes           To be reestablished
Applied research            Yes          No            Operational
Agricultural extension      Yes          No            Operational
Private sector              Yes          No            Non existent
National Seeds Plan        Yes           Yes           Being carried out
Training Seminars
Identified    Carried Ou    Comzne
in SAR
Budget procedures                  Yes           1983          Report produced
Agricultural extension             Yes           1983         Project defined
Budget management and accounting   Yes           1983          For project staff
Animal traction                    No            1984          No effective follow-up
Project management                 Yes           1985         For project managers
Project planning (2 phases)        Yes           1985/86       No measurable impact 2/
Project accounting                 Yes           1986          For project accountants
1/ includes housing and travel costs - for a 10-month work year
2/ Several participants dropped out or were unable to complete



20
B. Overseas Training
Identified   Number of    Comment
in SAR       beneficiaries
Agricultural marketing            yes            1           USA
Financial analysis techniques     yes            2           Mauritius
Budget management and audit       yes            9           Mauritius
Management and computers          yes            2           Mauritius
Managemt of rural develpt projects   yes         1           Ivory Coast
Managemt of labor-intensive projects  yes        2           Indonesia
Rural Development & project analysis yes         2           Egypt
Animal health                     no             1           France
Preparation of animal feeds       no             1           Argentina
Cooperative development           no             4           Canada
Agricultural extension            yes            3           France/Italy
Animal traction                   no             2           Burkina Faso
Agric. project data analysis      yes            2           USA 1/
Agricultural statistics           yes            1           France
Water supply improvement          no             1           France
Soil science and fertilization    no             1           France
Integrated management             yes            2           Canada
Project monitoring/evaluation     yes            6           France
Project identifcn. and planning   yes            6           France
Training of trainers              no             I           Cameroon
Banking economics                 no           .1            Italy
Total                                           46
Average cost of each training course was equivalent to roughly US$11,000 - therefore total cost of
individual overseas training was approximately US$516,000. A lot of specialized experts could have been
recruited to come to Zaire to give training to a far larger group of Zaire beneficiaries for the same
amount of money.
1/ One candidate left the training course after two weeks to attend another course funded by
USAID. No sanctions were imposed by the Ministry of Agriculture.



21
C. Studies
Title                            Consultants         Impact
Local/National
1. Impact of price               Local               Used to support measures included
liberalization                                     in structural adjustment program
2. The meat market of major      Local & foreign      Completed but no follow-up
urban centers                                       Used for 5-Year Plan for livestock
sector
3. Inventory of poultry and pig  Local & foreign      Completed but no follow-up
farms around major urban                           Contributed to 5-Year Plan for
centers                                            sector
4. Availability and use of animal  Local & foreign    Completed but no follow-up
feedstuffs                                          Contributed to 5-Year Plan for
sector
5. Improving smallstock production   Local & foreign  Completed but no follow-up
in rural areas                                      Contributed to 5-Year Plan for
livestock
6. Agricultural policy document  Local                Served as a basis for 5-year Plan
7. 5-Year Agriculture Plan       Local                Basis for annual investment
program
8. Rehabilitation of storage     Local                Established adequacy of storage
installations                                      capacity in Lubumbashi and
Kinshasa
9. DRC study of competitivity of  Local               Served as basis for preparation of
agricultural production                            perennial crops project and for structural
adjustment measures
1O.Study of agricultural inputs  Foreign             Poor study - of little value for
decision-makers
11 .Study on rationalization of taxes   Local        Useful study which served as basis
and export procedures                              for measures implemented under
the Structural Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 1831-ZR).



22
Table 6: Status of Covenants
Covenant         Subiect                                     Status
Section
3.01 (a)         Borrower to carry out Project in conformity  Some delays in releasing early years were later
with appropriate management practices and            compensated by release of adequate local funds
to provide funds and facilities
3.01 (b)         (i) Overall responsibility to be entrusted to  Complied with
Ministry for Agriculture
(ii) permanent full time project coordinator  Change in project coordinator in 3/85 was made
with experience and qualifications satisfactory    without consultation
to IDA
(iii) Functions and composition of Planning Unit  Complied with initially until the Planning Unit
to be acceptable to IDA                     became defunct
(iv) ONDE to carry out Part F of the project  Complied with
3.01 (c)         (i) Borrower to provide adequate budgetary   Non-compliance during early years but corrected
allocations                                 during latter years of project
(ii) Borrower to provide adequate to local staff,  Complied with - although quality of numerous
materials and services                      support staff only modest
3.02             Consultants with experience and qualifications    Complied with
acceptable to IDA to be employed by Borrower
3.03             Borrower to furnish to IDA detailed information  Complied with
regarding the qualifications, TOR and duration
of any consultants to be employod under the project
3.04             Borrower to designate by Sept 30, 1982 a    Delays in nominating Training Coordinator and
Training Coordinator under TOR acceptable  frequent changes
to IDA
3.05 (a)         Borrower to all reasonable measures to facilitate  Complied with
the work of specialists and consultants
3.05 (b)         Borrower not to waive or amend any of the terms Complied with
and conditions of employment of specialists or
consultants employed under the project
3.07 (a), (b)    Borrower to prepare an annual work program and Complied with each year
submit to IDA for comments and to promptly carry
out program on receipt of comments
3.08             (i) Borrower to ensure that trained personnel  Complied with
are employed on a full-time basis
(ii) Borrower to establish an incentive scheme    Never satisfactorily applied although the
for personnel to be awarded based on criteria    principles and criteria were agreed
acceptable to IDA
3.09             Borrower to cause all goods and services    Complied with apart from a few minor cases where
financed with the proceeds of the Credit to be    the Credit was used for Minister's office
exclusively for the project



23
Covenant          Subiect                                      Status
Section
3. 10 (a)         Borrower to maintain records to be available to   Complied with
IDA supervisors
3. 10 (c)         Annual activity reports to be submitted within    Reports were regularly if sometimes a little
three months of the end of each year         overdue
3. 10 (d)         Borrower to produce a Completion Report not    Not complied with
later than six months after completion of the
project
4.01 (a),(b)      Borrower to maintain satisfactory accounts   Complied with
4. 10 (c)         Borrower to carry out Audit of accounts within   Complied with - with occasional delays not exceeding
6 months after the end of each year          one or two months



Table 7: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(in staff weeks)
Stage                                    FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86     FY87      FY8S      FY89     FY90    FY91    FY92    TOTAL
Preparation                              0.4                                                                                                                  0.4
Appraisal                                4.6       13.9                                                                                                      18.5
Negotiations                                        1.8                                                                                                       1.8
Loan Processing                                     4.0       1.0                                                                                             5.0
Project Administration                              0.2       0.7       0.5                0.2                                                                1.6
Supervision                                                   9.0      18.8      18.0      5.8      3.8       1.1                                            56.5
Project Completion Report                           =         =_=_==_=___==                                                                =        7.1       7.1
TOTAL                                    5.0       19.9      107       19.3     18.0      6.0       3.        1.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       7.1      90.9



25
B. Supervision Missions 1'
Month    No. of staff   Days in field   Specialization                  Performance 2/      Types of problems 4/
Trend 3/
06/83         2             12        Financial analyst                       2/1                  M,0
Agricultural economist
11/83         1            23        Agricultural economist                  2/1                  M,O
12/84         4            25        3 Agricultural economists               2/2                  M,O
Public admin. specialist
l_______                    Management specialist
03/83         1              8        Agricultural economist                  2/2                   M
07/85         1              8        Agricultural economist                  3/2                  M,F
09/85         2             10        2 Agricultural economists               3/2                  M,F
08/86         1            N.A.       Agricultural economist                  2/2                  M,O
1/      In 1987, permanent supervision of the project was assumed by the agricultural country
officer in Zaire. No formal supervision reports were issued, although several staff
weeks were spent supervising the project in FY87 and FY88 (see Table 7.A.).
2/       1 =  No problems
2 =  Moderate problems
3 = Serious problems
3/       1 = Improving
2 =  Satisfactory
3 = Deteriorating
4/      F = Financial
M  =  Managerial
0  = Organizational



