Document of             
The World Bank                            AL.  ;T4
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3130-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                               Zaire (Z 1.00 = 100 makuta)
US$1.00                                     Z5.35
Z 1.00                                      US$0.19
Weights and Measures
Decimal Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 hectare (ha)                              2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                            0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                             2.204 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                          2,204 pounds
Abbreviations
EDF                                         European Development Fund
EFF                                         Extended Fund Facility
IMF                                         International Monetary Fund
MARD                                        Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development
OFIDA                                       Customs and Duties Office
ONDE                                        National Livestock Development
Authority
OR                                          Highway Authority
PIP                                         Public Investment Program
PU                                          Planning Unit
RVF                                         River Transport Authority
RVM                                         Maritime Transport Authority
SNCZ                                        National Railroad Company
SOFIDE                                      Economic Development Financial
Corporation
Fiscal Year
Government: January 1-December 31



ZAIRE                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                The Republic of Zaire
Amount    :             SDR 4.5 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms                   Standard IDA terms
Project Description:   The principal objective of the technical assistance
project would be to increase the Government's capacity
to elaborate further and implement its Agricultural
Action Plan. This would be achieved by strengthening
the institutional framework within which the Government
can plan, implement and monitor projects, and address
key policy issues which affect the performance of the
agricultural sector. A total of three long-term experts
for three years each and short-term consultants for
about 75 man-months would be provided. Specifically,
the Project would comprise the following components: (a)
Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development: technical assistance would be pro-
vided over a three year period to the Planning Unit, the
Planning Directprate and the Finance and Budget
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MARD) to strengthen their capacity for
planning, project preparation and financial and
budgetary management; funds would also be provided
for the preparation of feasibility studies; (b) Project
Implementation: the services of experienced specialists
would be financed to advise MARD on project implementa-
tion and monitoring and evaluation; (c) Assistance to
Government in Reviewing Key Policy Issues: consultants
services would be provided to existing policy working
groups to study and make appropriate recommendations on
key issues such as pricing policy, marketing, agricul-
tural credit, the allocation of foreign exchange, the
role of the private sector and research, extension and
training.
Benefits:               The major benefits expected to result from the proposed
project would be the enhancement of the Government-s
capacity to plan effectively; to carry out effective
project supervision and implementation; and to andress
key policy issues.
Risks:                  Project risks include the normal problems involved in
recruiting suitable specialists able to cooperate with
and train local staff, finding and retaining Zairian
counterparts and the difficult institutional environment
prevailing in Zaire. To reduce these risks, recruitment
of specialists through one or more consulting firms will be
considered as well as careful selection of individuals. In
addition, performance bonuses and appropriate training
would be offered to local staff. Finally the Project has
been designed with a limited scope and a clear focus on the
Agricultural Action Plan (para. 47) which provides a broad
policy framework for agricultural sector development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
(excluding taxes and duties from
which the project would be exempt)
Local   Foreign   Total
-  --- US$000 ------…
Technical Assistance 1/       254    2,401   2,655
Training                       45       364     409
Staff Costs & Logistic
Support                     768       369   1,137
Studies                        50       755     805
Audit                          23        85      108
Base Costs                  1,140    3,974   5,114
Price Contingencies           104       792     896
TOTAL COSTS              1,244    4,766   6,010
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
…-- US$ million -----
IDA                             0.2        4.8        5.0
Government of Zaire              1.0         -        1.0
TOTAL                            1.2       4.8        6.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year    1982       1983       1984       1985
----------(US$ million)----------
Annual                0.3       1.7       2.0         1.0
Cumulative            0.3      2.0        4.0         5.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared
for this project.
Map - IBRD 14691
1/   Including US$600,000 advanced under the Project Preparation Facility.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following  report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 4.5
million (US$5.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.      The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. The period since
then has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire: on
June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended arrangement in
support of a medium-term (1981-83) economic recovery program; the economic
situation, performance and prospects of Zaire were reviewed at a meeting of the
Consultative Group later that month; and, in early July, Zaire negotiated a new
debt rescheduling agreement with the members of the Paris Club. These develop-
ments and others are reflected below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and half times the rate
of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral-processing
industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it has traditionally
been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country's export earnings.  (The shares cited are 1977-79 averages, as
detailed GDP data for 1980 are not yet available).
1/ This section is substantialy the same as Part I of the President's Report for
the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (P-3231-ZR of
March 15, 1982).



4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years following
independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of
the economy; but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967,
GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then,
however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties, which have
brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and the attempts to drastically change the ownership
structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the
zairianization and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links between
urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect of the country's
productive capacity and infrastructure. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of
trade in 1975, owing largely to the fall in the international price of copper,
was a major contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's
commercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms. The Government
ran large budgetary deficits, domestic prices quadrupled, the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year, and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but these
could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.      In 1978, commercialized GDP contracted by about 6 percent in real
terms. The overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 530
million, equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued
the zaire in four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0 =
SDR 1.0 to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Although the overall balance of payments deficit
was reduced to about $330 million, the deficit was financed primarily by a
further accumulation of arrears: total arrears (on public debt, short-term debt
and private non-guaranteed debt) increased from about US$800 million at the end
of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978. Two debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club during 1976-77 proved inadequate to alleviate the
debt situation.



-3-
Developments in 1979-1980
8.      Although the economic and financial situation of Zaire remained
difficult in 1979, the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to official estimates, commercialized GDP rose marginally (by 0.2 percent) and
the budgetary deficit was smaller both in nominal terms and as a proportion of
GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary deficit was again financed
entirely by recourse to the banking system. This plus the acceleration of
credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which
rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the year. The balance
of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On December 31, 1979, arrears
(including those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.8 billion. The zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR on
August 27, 1979 and by another 30 percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 = US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978 to 74 percent.
9.      In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed
essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of
inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for a resumption
of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter alia, a marked
reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing, a substantial
deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign exchange management,
and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this program, on August 27,
1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of SDR
118 million for a period of 18 months. The implementation of the stabilization
program encountered some difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met all the
performance criteria in 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount under the
Stand-by. The program contributed, inter alia, to reducing the inflation rate
from more than 100 percent the year before to 47 percent, or below the level
envisaged in the program.
10.     At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including undisbursed,
amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a banking group,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club agreement covered
debts totaling US$1.3 billion and comprising all arrears outstanding (including,
for the first time, arrears on insured short-term debt) as well as maturities
falling due in 1980. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule all their
outstanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290 million in
arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate of LIBOR plus
1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 percent thereafter.
During 1980, Zaire made a serious effort to respect these agreements; its actual
external public debt service totalled US$315 million, compared to US$168 million
in 1979.



- 4 -
11.     In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements of medium and long term aid remained
unchanged, but debt service payments nearly doubled (to 20 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services) and net transfers were negligible or nil.
Nevertheless, the supply situation eased somewhat. While official imports
(imports with officially acquired resources) declined in real terms, total
imports cleared through customs registered a gain. Thanks to this gain,
according to official estimates, commercialized GDP registered an increase of
2.3 percent in real terms. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in Gecamines' copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
12.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government views as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved; some agricultural producer
prices were raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was
initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and
related infrastructure; a new investment code was promulgated; and a number of
reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
13.     In 1979, national and international attention concerning Zaire was
directed to the preparation of a medium-term public investment program (PIP),
and the Bank was asked to assist the Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In
August 1979, the Government completed such a program for the period 1979-81,
focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as
transportation and agriculture. The execution of the PIP during 1979-80 was
constrained primarily by the shortage of resources and the execution of certain
on-going projects which had not been included in the PIP: only 40 percent of the
PIP could be executed in its first two years, compared to about 60 percent
foreseen under the program.  Nevertheless, the experience proved valuable.  The
preparation of the PIP constituted a first step toward the establishment of an
investment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This process has been



- 5 -
yielding some of the desired results: technical experience has been building up;
programming and follow-up procedures are slowly being institutionalized; and the
agencies whose cooperation is crucial to the process are slowly being sensitized
to the importance of this very cooperation. In early 1981, the Government
prepared a new PIP for the years 1981-83, drawing on the experience with the
first program (see below).
Recent Developments and Steps toward Recovery
14.     The year 1981  witnessed a number of national and international actions
to set Zaire on the path to sustained economic recovery. First, Zaire focused
its investment program for 1981-83 more firmly on the priorities for recovery,
namely, the rehabilitation of existing productive capacity (especially mining)
and related infrastructure (especially transportation). These two sectors
account for nearly two-thirds of the program. Zaire also continued the process
of institutional reforms initiated in 1978-79. For example, it established an
External Resources Coordination Committee to deal speedily with all matters
relating to external assistance and particularly with project implementation
bottlenecks as they arise. The permanent members of the Committee include the
representatives of the UNDP, FED and the World Bank. In addition, a major
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Bank, is
being studied, and a review of the tax system is under way in cooperation with
the IMF.
15.     In mid-1981, the Zairian authorities drew up, with the cooperation of
the IMF, a new program of economic and financial recovery covering the period
1981-83. In conjunction with this program, the Zairian authorities took a
number of interrelated steps toward stimulating and expanding supply, keeping
the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange
management. On June 19, 1981, the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR as part of a flexible foreign exchange rate policy involving
frequent adjustments in the rate. Interest rates were adjusted upward and will
be reviewed periodically. And the existing price controls on most goods and
services were removed in order to stimulate the private sector. In support of
the medium term program, on June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended
arrangement for the three year period ending June 21, 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 912 million. In addition, Zaire has prepared an Agricultural
Action Plan whose specific prescriptions, some of which are still being worked
out, are designed to bring about improvements in the following key areas: (i)
strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit and
foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. It is the Government's intention to revitalize and develop this
important sector by relying on the private sector, limiting the Government's
role to the provision and maintenance of the necessary infrastructure.
16.     The economic situation and prospects of Zaire were the subject of
discussions at the meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held during June
1981. The participants expressed satisfaction with the improvements which had
taken place in the economic situation and management. They agreed with the
overall priorities of the public investment program and with the thrust of the
Government's policies, especially those designed to liberalize the economy and
stimulate the private sector. After a review of the Agricultural Action Plan,



-6-
it was decided to convene a meeting on agriculture in mid 1982, given the
importance of this sector and the need to assure follow-up as well as
coordination of policies and actions, both internally and externally.l/ The
Consultative Group also reviewed the priorities within and government policies
in respect of the transport sector. A number of participants indicated their
intention to increase their overall assistance to Zaire in 1982 and beyond. In
July 1981, shortly after the meeting of the Consultative Group, Zaire
successfully negotiated with the Paris Club the rescheduling of maturities
falling due in 1981 and 1982, including the postponement of some of the already
rescheduled maturities. Under the terms of the new agreement, contingent on
compliance with the EFF, the debt service due in 1981 was reduced from US$700
million to US$490 million. If the delays in the signature of the bilateral
agreements are taken into account, the debt service effectively due was about
US$370 million, equivalent to 24 percent of exports of goods and non factor
services.
17.     Although management and institutional reforms continued during 1981, the
physical progress of the economy toward recovery was slowed down due to a
combination of external and internal factors. According to preliminary
estimates, the weakness of the copper, cobalt and coffee markets caused a 17
percent decline in merchandise exports in nominal terms. Merchandise imports
fell 13 percent short of the projections under the IMF program and were about 8
percent lower in real terms than the level of 1980. As a result, Zaire will be
able to purchase the equivalent of SDR US$106.9 million under the compensatory
financing facility of the IMF. Zaire also experienced growing difficulties in
meeting its debt service obligations and began accumulating arrears in the
second semester of the year. Developments in the external sector (a major
source of government revenue) had a very negative impact on government
finances. This, coupled with a weakening of budgetary discipline, caused the
budgetary deficit and its banking-system financing to exceed the program targets
for September 30 and December 31, 1981. Consequently, Zaire was not able to
purchase the third and fourth tranches under the IMF program. However the
inflation rate was reduced somewhat during the year and, despite the above
difficulties, the Government continued to refine its Agricultural Action Plan,
began updating the public investment program once again, reaffirmed its
intention to improve the management of Gecamines and Sozacom (the state mining
and mineral marketing companies, respectively), and announced it intention to
transfer the ownership of 37 public enterprises to the private sector.
18.     Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy and
agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices and, more recently, those of cobalt. Economic developments in Zaire will
continue to depend on the vagaries of world commodity prices.  Adjusting to the
resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been
seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
While overcoming these difficulties will take time, through the cooperation of
1/ As of this writing (end-March), the meeting is tentatively scheduled for
end-June.



the Government with the major donors, including the IMF and the Bank, a set of
actions aiming at the progressive de-control of the economy has been mapped out
for setting Zaire more firmly on the path to recovery. Achieving the desired
recovery will require perseverance on the part of Zaire as well as continued
efforts by the donors to keep the external debt burden at a manageable level and
to replenish the project pipeline which has been severely depleted in the last
few years (from US$1.2 billion in 1975 to an estimated US$550 million at
present).
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.     Since 1969, Zaire has received 24 IDA credits totaling US$351 million
for transport, agriculture, development finance company operations, water
supply, power and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan for an
offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
20.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the company.
21.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis.  In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which for the first time
provided an integrated view of implementation problems. This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of the Bank's assistance,
particularly in the agriculture sector.
22.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271 and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Projects);
Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).



- 8 -
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply,
Education, Livestock and Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been
issued for the First SOFIDE and the first Highway Projects. The conclusion of
the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effective and competent
institution, and the Office des Routes, the highway agency, had been able to
establish an effective administrative set-up.  On the other hand, ONATRA's
performance had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project
but did improve under a follow-up project; implementation by RVF and RVM had
disappointing results, but financial results of operations had improved. All
entities had encountered operating difficulties beyond their control as the
economy deteriorated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems
besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by Government's
zairianization/radicalization measures. Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the OR
is continuing under Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and a
Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM received assistance through a
second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA will benefit from a
recently approved Modernization Project.
23.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the East Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares favorably with an average
rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While disbursement
performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in several
projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and livestock
(Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project entity to
create an implementation momentum caused general delays. Economic conditions
were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where government
counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second
Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow
recovery from the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit
710-ZR). Future project implementation should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and
efforts by the Government to improve its budgetary support of IDA-financed
projects. At end 1981, the Bank Group share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and
outstanding was less than 10 percent.
24.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, in particular the Voie Nationale; to assist the development of
the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricultural Action Plan
(see para. 15 above) through improvement of agricultural policies the
strengthening of agricultural institutions and the financing of projects
designed to increase the production of both foodcrops and industrial crops" and
to promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition,
further support will be considered for the energy sector. Recently appraised



agricultural projects include a second cotton project, which aims to
strengthen extension services, improve cotton collection and marketing
activities, improve road infrastructure, provide agricultural inputs and
make cotton ginning operations more effective in key cotton growing areas;
a sixth line of credit to SOFIDE, which will include provision for further
lending for agriculture; and a second phase project for the Ituri Region.
25.       The Government and the Bank have made concerted efforts in the
past year to identify and seek solutions to the problems affecting agricul-
tural projects. The general economic crisis has clearly had a major impact
on all projects, causing severe shortages of supplies, continuing difficulties
in obtaining budget funds, and deterioration in the transport network.
Institutional support for agricultural development continues to be weak.
Both at the field and central Government levels, management problems arise:
staff lack proper training and motivation is poor, due in part to very low
salaries; financial management systems are particularly weak and contribute
directly to difficulties in budgeting effectively for projects and in exercis-
ing effective controls over utilization of funds. Technical assistance is
essential but qualified staff is difficult to recruit and to employ effec-
tively. Further difficulties for projects have resulted from broader policy
problems, notably unclear price policies, an inadequate marketing system, and
the lack of effective incentives to the private sector to participate in the
development process. The development of effective measures to address these
problems is a central objective of the proposed project, which would focus on
the development of stronger institutions and better policies for the agricul-
tural sector and of more effective mechanisms for project development and
management.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
26.       Agriculture is vital to Zaire's economy; however,-its contribution
to GDP and exports has been declining and imports of agricultural products
have been increasing in the last few years (para. 27). It provides employ-
ment and support to 70-75% of the active population and represents the main
source of activity for a large segment of the manufacturing sector which
employs an additional 10% of the population. The development of Zaire-s
agricultural sector has encountered a number of serious obstacles in recent
years. First, the overall economic crisis has prevented public authorities
from devoting the necessary attention and resources to sector development.
The critical shortage of foreign exchange and the high inflation experienced
in recent years have been acutely felt by the sector and have complicated
efforts to design and implement agricultural policies and programs. Second,
inadequate or unclear Government policies have represented serious constraints
for agricultural development. Areas where the policies have had a negative



- 10 -
impact have included the role to be assigned to the private sector (para. 30),
marketing and pricing (paras 33 through 37). Third, the weakness of key agri-
cultural institutions and the neglect they have suffered from central authori-
ties have been detrimental to the development of agriculture. Particularly
serious is the lack of planning and project implementation capacity, the
weakness of basic services and cumbersome and ineffective budgeting and
financial management systems (paras. 38-44).
27.       In 1977-79, the share of agriculture in total GDP averaged about
25% compared to 24% for the mining and mineral-processing sector. This
contribution has fluctuated over the years from about 26% in 1959, before
independence, to 16% in 1970 and 17% in 1975, as a result of the decline of
agricultural production and the relative growth or contraction of other
sectors. Agriculture has also traditionally been a major contributor to total
exports, although the value of this contribution has decreased considerably;
its share fluctuated over the past two decades from a high of 39% in 1959 to a
low of about 13% in 1979 with a yearly average for the last 10 years of about
18%. The share of agricultural products in imports has, by contrast, in-
creased noticeably in recent years, with the most dramatic rise being regis-
tered in food imports. These trends reflect a failure to realize the poten-
tial of the sector and underline the need for urgent remedial action.
28.       It must be recognized that present difficulties are also caused by
the immense size of the country and the remoteness of the most fertile and
productive regions. Nevertheless, the most urgent priority in establishing a
sound agricultural strategy is clearly to develop a sound institutional frame-
work that will allow the Government to address the key questions of agricultural
planning, pricing and marketing, provision of basic services, interagency
coordination, financial management and the role of the private sector.
Production Systems and Agricultural Production
29.       Zaire-s agriculture is characterized by coexistence of the modern
and the traditional sectors, each distinct from the other in structure,
production techniques and scope of operations.  It is estimated that at
present the modern sector contributes about 40% of total agricultural output;
the traditional/subsistence, about 60%.  Of the total value of agricul-
tural production, an estimated 48% was marketed and the remainder consumed on
the farm. About 27% of total marketed production was reportedly exported, 23%
sold on the internal consumption market and 50% sold to local industries.
30.       The Modern Sector.  The sharp distinction between the traditional
and modern sectors results in large part from measures taken before independ-
ence to develop modern private agricultural enterprises for export produc-
tion. The modern sector that evolved from these measures includes two main
categories of production units: large, corporation-owned plantations using
modern techniques and inputs and smaller, individually-owned farms and
ranches. The number of holdings is estimated to have declined from 1,200 in
1970 to about 800 today; average size is around 2,000 ha and the average



- J1i -
number of employees about 390. The largest units are held by foreign-
owned companies with Zairian corporate identity and all now have Zairian
participation. Smaller modern sector enterprises were established by
colonial farmers and many of them have been completely abandoned. The prin-
cipal commodities produced by the modern sector are palm oil, sugar, rubber,
tobacco, coffee, cocoa and cattle. Many of the big plantations are part of
vertically integrated agro-industrial enterprises that include among their
activities palm oil production and refining, sugar processing, coffee drying,
livestock slaughtering and rubber and wood processing. The modern sector has,
in general, declined or stagnated since independence. This has occurred
mainly as a result of the low priority given to agriculture by the Government
and of the zairianisation and nationalization measures (para. 5) which sought
first to transfer ownership of all foreign-owned agricultural, commercial and
transport enterprises to Zairian owners and then to have the Government exert
direct management control over many large enterprises. The immediate impact
of these measures included decline in production, a serious deterioration of
plant and equipment, an exodus of skilled managers and a serious disruption of
commercial links. They also affected the traditional sector severely (para.
31). Though since rescinded, these measures have seriously damaged private
sector confidence both at home and abroad. The modern sector has, moreover,
suffered from the recent economic crisis and most plants are operating at
below 50% of their capacity because of shortage of inputs, spare parts and fuel
and the lack of foreign exchange to invest in modernization or rehabilitation.
31.       The Traditional Sector.  This comprises an estimated 3 to 4 million
farming units working an average farm of about 1.5 ha and accounting for about
60% of total agricultural production. Throughout Zaire, traditional farming
techniques rely almost exclusively on hand labor and simple tools. Although
well adapted to certain local situations, the slash and burn methods have
resulted in soil erosion and a decline in soil fertility in areas where
population density has increased. The traditional crops grown are cassava,
maize, rice, cotton, peanuts, vegetables and tropical fruits. Traditional
farmers in many parts of Zaire rely heavily on private companies for provision
of basic services, including extension and transport. This is particularly
important in cotton-producing areas. The difficulties that private companies
experienced following zairianisation and nationalization resulted in a serious
deterioration of rural services and infrastructure, and a steady disintegra-
tion of the transport system. Private companies could not fulfill their
accustomed role in the rural areas and the Government was unable to replace
them. The lack of policy, organization, management and investment for basic
agricultural services has resulted in declining marketable surpluses from
subsistence farmers, a worsening of the quality of rural life, and declining
incomes.
32.       Livestock and Fisheries.  Cattle are the most economically significant
livestock for Zaire; the national herd was estimated at 1.4 million head in
1978. Information on other livestock is poor but there are estimated to be
some 2.0-2.7 million head of goat, 0.8 million head of sheep and 10 million
poultry. Cattle raising is restricted to relatively limited areas of Zaire
due to the presence of the tsetse fly elsewhere. An estimated 60% of the



- 12 -
cattle herd is held by traditional farmers, mainly in the Kivu and Haut Zaire
and 40% on commercial ranches, mainly in Shaba. Only an estimated 3% of
subsistence farmers own cattle and the productivity of traditional livestock
herds is very low, with annual off-take estimated at about 8-10%. The produc-
tivity of large commercial ranches has declined since the 1973-76 period of
turmoil. Livestock production appears to have declined in recent years due to
inadequate disease control services, inadequate and disorganized marketing
channels and deterioration of the management and facilities of many large
commercial ranches as well as inappropriate Government pricing policies. As a
result, meat production has not kept pace with rising urban demand and meat
imports have increased rapidly, now accounting for between 30 and 50% of local
consumption. Zaire's annual fish catch has declined from about 150,000 tons
before independence to 100,000 tons in 1976 as a result of the severe damage
to commercial fisheries by "zairianization" and because of the deterioration
of services and marketing infrastructure. Fishing is concentrated on the
lakes along Zaire's eastern border. Efforts to develop marine fisheries based
at Matadi have yielded poor results. Generally, fish is a more important
source than meat for protein in most diets. Hunting of game and the gathering
of insects are also significant sources of animal protein in many parts of
Zaire.
B. Marketing and Pricing of Agricultural Products
33.       The Government has taken several initiatives to regulate agricultural
marketing operations, with the objective of guaranteeing a fair return to
farmers and agro-industrial concerns and ensuring adequate supplies of food
and basic commodities to cities and mining complexes at a reasonable cost.
These efforts include notably the establishment of two successive parastatal
institutions which were to purchase crops from farmers. Both institutions
(ONACER and ONPV) were very unsuccessful and were subsequently abolished.
Despite, and sometimes because of, Government programs to develop marketing,
problems related to marketing and pricing of agricultural products remain
among the most serious obstacles to development of the sector. The major
causes of these problems include unclear or inappropriate policies, an in-
ability to implement measures in a timely fashion, and physical deficiencies
in the marketing infrastructure and transport systems. Although marketing
arrangements vary for different groups of commodities, there are a number of
problems which are encountered everywhere. There are difficulties associated
with collecting and evacuating marketable surpluses due to the very bad state
of the transport network and the acute equipment shortage, notably of trucks
and spare parts. Storage and processing facilities are also inadequate;
high losses occur, for instance, when produce cannot immediately be taken
to the market. Pricing policies and mechanisms are complex, unclear and
unevenly applied, and they have generally had a negative impact on production
and marketing. In general, the Government has sought to regulate prices
through a system of price levels set by decree of the Minister of Economic
Affairs in cooperation with other concerned ministries and administered by
regional governors.



- 13 -
34.       The impact of pricing policies has been quite different for various
groups of commodities. For foodcrops and cattle, the price control system has
consisted largely of the establishment of an official "minimum" price designed
to stimulate production and protect farmers. In practice, the Government has
been unable to administer the system effectively, since it cannot guarantee
purchase of crops and minimum prices have been adjusted rarely, and are
generally much too low. Important problems have arisen when some Regional
Commissioners have decreed that minimum prices are "official" and thus effec-
tively maximum prices for maize and for cattle, and have taken steps to
enforce these prices. This has presented a substantial disincentive to
production. Where Regional authorities set wholesale and retail prices,
farmgate prices tend to be depressed. In addition, some parastatal bodies are
required to buy and sell at "minimum" prices, which can also distort market
forces as well as cause financial problems for the entities involved. This
sometimes results in their inability to purchase key commodities or, if they
represent an important market force (as does ONDE in some areas), depresses
prices to farmers and discourages production. In some instances this has
placed larger, more readily controllable entities at a disadvantage compared
with small enterprises which cannot easily be regulated.
35.       Pricing policies for cotton have particular importance because
the official price can be readily applied (there are no alternative buyers
to the large official cotton agencies or companies), and because farmers in
practice decide whether or not to plant cotton on an annual basis, in large
measure as a function of the price offered. The Government establishes seed
cotton, lint and ex-factory textile prices. In theory, the Government has
sought to set prices at levels which would encourage farmers to produce
cotton, and which are roughly equivalent to import parity prices for fiber (at
the official exchange rate). In practice cotton prices have generally been
too low to encourage production, and maize prices have offered substantially
higher returns to farmers in many regions. In both cases, prices have been
reviewed too infrequently to keep pace with inflation. The Government has
recently announced important changes in cotton pricing, and producer prices
are to be minimum rather than fixed. The application of this new system
remains to be worked out but the change is a positive one.
36.       Pricing policies for coffee and, to some extent, tea present quite
different problems. The Government establishes an official minimum price
which is determined in relation to the world market price. However, since
this is based on official, not "parallel", market exchange rates, there is
a strong incentive for illegal exports, and a significant proportion of
the coffee crop has, in recent years, been exported through "unofficial"
channels. The Government thus loses substantial foreign exchange earnings
from coffee. Prices of sugar and palm oil follow the regime for manufactured
goods:  prices are fixed by the Government on the basis of cost plus a 20%
profit margin. The principal problems have been difficulties in determining
the cost structure, delays in obtaining action on prices by the Government,
and the lack of incentives to the enterprises concerned to keep costs low. In
practice the Government has been reluctant to agree to price increases which'
are seen as inflationary, and the result has been long delays in decreeing new



- 14 -
prices. While ex-factory prices are controlled and largely enforced, retail
prices are not, so that for sugar, palm oil and textiles in particular, final
prices to consumers are many times higher than the "official" price.
37.       The Government has recently taken steps towards price liberali-
zation. A new policy has been announced whereby control at the ex-factory,
wholesale, and retail levels are now to apply only to those goods and services
which are considered of strategic importance, namely, palm oil, wheat flour,
sugar, petroleum and pharmaceutical products, textiles, construction materials
other than wood, water, electricity, and internal public transport. Even in
these cases, controls are being administered flexibly, with requests for price
increases being regarded as automatically approved if the Department of
National Economy and Industry does not react within 30 days. As of June 1,
1981, minimum producer prices for coffee and palm fruits were eliminated, and
the authorities have stated that the few fixed prices remaining are strictly
floor prices above which all transactions between producers and buyers may be
freely concluded. Although these measures represent an important step towards
improving incentives to producers, the price administration system remains
complex and there is no systematic mechanism for review of prices which are
controlled or for assessment of the impact of the administered price system.
In general, MARD is still not systematically associated with the price setting
mechanism. A careful and systematic review of issues relating to price
policies with a view to making recommendations on further modifications to
the current system merits a high priority. In particular, the role of the
regional authorities in administering price regulations (paras. 33 and 34)
should be examined. This would be done under the Project by the working
group on pricing (para. 65).
C. Institutions for Agricultural and Rural Development and Finance
38.       Traditionally, the role of Government institutions in promoting
and regulating agricultural development in Zaire was relatively restricted
and the private sector dominated the development of modern agricultural
activities with clear Government support. Although the Government has tried
to expand its role through partial ownership of many enterprises, price
policies, intervention in marketing and other activities, few public resources
have been effectively mobilized to develop a sound institutional basis for
future agricultural development. The Government has now come to the conclu-
sion that most production activities should be left to the private sector and
that its role should be limited mainly to coordination and provision of basic
infrastructure.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
39.       The Ministry (called Department) of Agriculture and Rural Develop-
ment (MARD) is headed by a State Commissioner for Agriculture with two State
Secretaries under him, one for agriculture, one for rural development. MARD



- 15 -
is responsible for agricultural policy, extension services, veterinary and
some research services, and technical supervision of three parastatal institu-
tions. The Agriculture Secretariat has particular responsibility for prepara-
tion, implementation and follow-up of large, production-oriented projects
including projects receiving foreign support, while the Rural Development
Secretariat concentrates on provision of rural services, such as water supply,
and on cooperative development. The allocation of responsibilities between
the two Secretariats has not yet been clearly established and this has been an
important problem for the Department. MARD currently employs an estimated
16,000 staff directly, and significant numbers of other staff, perhaps almost
as many again, are indirectly employed by MARD in related parastatals and on
specific projects: for instance, two important crop-specific national pro-
grams are being carried out under the aegis of the Department with foreign
assistance: the National Maize Program (PNM) and the National Manioc Program
(PRONAM). Services provided are generally weak due to poor staff training,
low salary levels, and inadequate physical and financial resources. In many
areas of the country, extension work by the Government has virtually ceased
because extension workers have no access to inputs or means of transport.
This situation is gradually improving as the Government has started to equip
extension supervisors with jeeps or motorbikes, and extension agents with
bicycle. In some regions, private companies and development project units are
operating extension services on behalf of the Government. MARD is unable to
carry out its responsibilities for planning, preparation, implementation, and
supervision of projects due to lack of trained personnel. Planning for
agriculture does not function effectively. Principal problems are poor
management of basic information and inadequate links between planning and
decision making on broad strategy issues and between plannirng and resource
allocation, notably budget preparation. Basic systems for collection and
processing of agricultural statistics are weak and statistics that are
assembled are not made available to those who need them. An essential tool
for effective planning and sector management is thus lacking. A serious
underlying problem is that salaries of virtually all Government officers
are currently so low, following the erosion of inflation, that they offer
virtually no incentives for sustained and dedicated performance. Finally,
financial management structure of MARD is weak; budgetary procedures and
financial controls are rudimentary and result in disbursement problems and
poor public investment performance in the sector. IDA staff are assisting
the Government in addressing these problems via an on-going sectoral dialogue
with Department officials. The proposed Project is specifically designed to
address the areas of development planning, project preparation and implementa-
tion as well as issues of policy analysis (paras 57-59).
Other Ministries and Parastatals
40.       The Department of National Economy is responsible for price policies
and, through an interministerial Price Commission, is responsible for setting
and regulating official prices from the producer to the retail levels. The
Department of the Portfolio is responsible for supervision of all companies
in which the Government holds shares; since "retrocession" this has included
not only the parastatals and commodity offices but also most of the significant



- 16 -
commercial enterprises. The Department of the Environment is responsible
for the development and regulation of forestry activities, the Department of
Education for agricultural education and the Office des Routes (OR), for
development and maintenance of a large part of the national road network.
41.       In 1971, the Government began to establish regulatory parastatals
("offices") for each major agricultural product. The principal responsibility
of these bodies was to regulate trade and exports for their respective com-
modity. Some offices also carried out marketing activities, while others
became directly involved in production activities following the "nationaliza-
tion" of 1974. In May 1978, the Government initiated a complete reorganiza-
tion of these commodity agencies due to acute management and financial
problems; some offices were dissolved completely, while others were replaced
with new parastatal institutions. Three regulatory parastatals are operating
at present: Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere (CSCo, cotton), Office National
pour le Developpement de lElevage (ONDE, livestock), and Office Zairois du
Cafe (OZACAF, coffee). Because of the poor financial record of offices in the
past, the new parastatal agencies have found it virtually impossible to borrow
funds through commercial sources, and this has exacerbated the basic management
problems that all have inherited.
42.       ONDE, the Government agency responsible for livestock development,
has been supported by IDA under the First Livestock Project since 1974. It
would receive continued support under the project because of its central role
for the livestock subsector and the importance of continuing technical assist-
ance to consolidate institution building achievements of the past eight
years. ONDE is principally a ranching authority and has three large cattle
ranches with a total herd size of about 47,000 head. In the 1972-1980 period,
it has accounted for about 10% of the total herd size increase in Zaire. ONDE
is thus a major cattle producer and at the same time serves as a source of
expertise and information on animal husbandry practices with its well trained
Zairian technicians. Finally, one of its ranches has been making a profit and
providing for most of the financing needs of the other two. In the future,
the Government intends to reduce ONDE-s direct production responsibilities
(notably by divesting it of two unprofitable ranches) and to increase its
responsibilities for definition and execution of a national livestock develop-
ment strategy.
43.       SOFIDE, the development finance institution (para. 20), established
an agricultural department in 1976 and offers medium and long term credit for
agricultural and agro-industrial projects. Zaire's formerly outstanding
agricultural research system no longer functions effectively and links with
farmers, through private companies and extension services, are practically
nonexistent. Moreover, the research infrastructure is deteriorating rapidly.
Agricultural training institutions are not providing the much-needed staff for
development programs as facilities are deteriorating and programs are ill
adapted to practical, contemporary needs.



- 17 -
44.       There is no clear allocation of responsibility among the multitude
of agencies involved in agriculture and the respective tasks of the various
agencies have often changed. Institutions are poorly organized, lack quali-
fied staff and resources, and frequently operate in an uncertain administra-
tive and legal framework. This basic institutional weakness represents an
immediate and critical problem both because it results in ineffective services
and confusion of policies and programs and because it impedes efforts to
provide effective leadership for development of better services, clearer
policies and new investment programs. Although regional extension networks
exist on paper, they provide but few services to farmers and in some areas are
counter-productive, notably when they are used to enforce inappropriate price
levels. Links between research activities and extension are virtually non-
existent, and extension services have not been able to develop any workable
system to provide essential inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, tools, or
credit to farmers. It is thus particularly significant that, during 1981, the
Government has made specific efforts to address the institutional problems
facing the agricultural sector.
D. Government Strategy for Agricultural Development
45.       In the past decade, the Zairian Government, with substantial assis-
tance and encouragement from external agencies, has formulated a series of
programs for agricultural recovery. These planning efforts were based on the
assumption that revitalization of the agricultural sector was probably the
highest priority for Zaire's long-term development and required a greatly
increased allocation of resources. Past planning efforts for agriculture have
included a major planning effort for the national economy and the sector
undertaken in 1970, a 1976 international symposium on Zarian agriculture, a
meeting in 1978 of an agricultural working group under the aegis of the Con-
sultative Group for Zaire to review short term strategies for agricultural
recovery, and a series of efforts to define agricultural policies and develop-
ment schemes as part of the preparation of the Mobutu Plan (para. 12, 13).
To date, however, the various plans for agriculture have remained largely at
the conceptual stage and have not been carried out. The sector has continued,
in practice, to receive a low priority particularly in the allocation of
financial resources. Past efforts reflect a tendency to embark on activities
which promised quick results and were generally undertaken without effective
coordination among various departments. The approach has in sum not been
systematic and no careful analysis has been made of mechanisms needed to
translate priorities into effective action. The Zairian Government is cur-
rently engaged in a new effort to define a coherent strategy to develop the
agricultural sector. The World Bank and several other agencies have encouraged
this effort which is summarized in the agricultural Action Plan (para. 47-51).
46.       Much technical assistance has been provided to MARD by external
agencies in agricultural planning, project supervision and training. USAID
has provided assistance to help set up a better system for gathering agricul-
tural statistics and is planning also to expand its assistance to MARD for
agricultural data collection and analysis. Other planned technical assistance
would focus on sector planning and project implementation.  In the past,



- 18 -
technical assistance efforts have failed to have a noticeable impact on
institutional performance and project implementation; technical assistants
have had to devote too much of their time to basic administrative and manage-
ment tasks which should normally be handled by local personnel and their
professional capacity was not always fully utilized. Sometimes, they have
also had to concentrate only on specific projects. The proposed Project would
differ from these past technical assistance efforts in that it would focus on
the Agricultural Action Plan (para. 47).
The Agricultural Action Plan
47.       The Agricultural Action Plan is designed to stimulate short-term
recovery: first, by removing critical bottlenecks, notably inconsistent or
inappropriate policies and inadequate allocation of limited foreign exchange,
which impede production; second, by making on-going projects and programs work
better; and third by specific efforts to encourage small farmers and private
companies to produce and market food crops, cotton and sugar for local indus-
tries, and palm oil, coffee and forestry products for export. It includes
measures to strengthen the institutional support for agricultural policies and
investments, a more systematic review of critical issues affecting agricul-
ture and of on-going projects and improve their implementation, preparation of
a clear three-year investment plan for agriculture within the context of the
Mobutu Plan, and an analysis of import needs of agricultural enterprises in
the private sector and a definition of priorities among them.
48.       Institutional Strengthening.  A program to strengthen the institutions
in the sector has been drawn up; it includes establishment of clear procedures
for Cabinet-level coordination of agricultural policy under the leadership of
the Minister of Agriculture and of a better planning system. Cr-itical areas,
including financial management and budgeting at the Ministry level, will be
examined. Following an in-depth evaluation of each of these areas, the
Government intends to undertake appropriate reorganization of services,
train staff, engage suitable additional technical assistance and establish
new operating procedures.
49.       Review of Ongoing Projects.  The Government has recognized the need
for a thorough review of ongoing projects in the agricultural sector; there are
estimated to be about 60 in all. There is clearly little justification for
initiating new investments while substantial available resources remain
unutilized. The objective is to identify and remove bottlenecks in project
implementation and to develop more effective mechanisms for project supervision
and monitoring by the Ministry.
50.       Policy Review.  The Government has determined to undertake a system-
atic policy review to address five critical issues; this would be followed by
appropriate action. The issues are agricultural pricing policies, regulation
and control of marketing, incentives to private investment in agriculture,
development of agricultural credit systems, allocation of foreign exchange
for priority operations and extension, research and training. Special working



- 19 -
groups with technical assistance support would be established to review these
problems, propose action as appropriate and monitor the impact of reforms.
These policy areas are of vital importance, not least because in these areas
the Government of Zaire can demonstrate its commitment to agricultural develop-
ment and its capacity to carry out reforms with relatively limited financial
resources.
51.       Investment Program.  An investment program for the agricultural
sector that would serve as the basis for a review of priorities and links
among projects both within the sector and for the economy more broadly would
be made by MARD in coordination with the Planning Ministry (as it would be
coordinated with work on the Public Investment Program (para. 13)). It would
also be closely linked to the planned efforts to strengthen budget management
and project monitoring.
52.       This Action Plan was presented by the Government at the June 1981
Consultative Group meeting in Paris. It was then agreed that a Consultative
Group meeting on agriculture would be held in the Spring of 1982 to review
progress made by the Government in carrying out the initial steps of this
program of action and to coordinate external agencies support for agriculture;
this meeting is now scheduled for end June 1982. Steps already taken by the
Government to implement this program include the following: (a) the start of
a thorough review of on-going agricultural projects; (b) the start of work on
an investment program for the agricultural sector; and (c) steps taken to
reorganize MARD to make it more responsive to the needs of the sector. Under
the new proposals, the Ministry would have seven directorates: Planning;
Project Administration; Administration, Finance and Budget; Crop Production;
Livestock; Rural Promotion; and Rural Works. These new proposals have
reportedly been adopted by the Council of Ministers but have not been signed
into law. This is expected to take place in the near future. One change
proposed and adopted by the Council of Ministers is the creation of a post of
Secretary General for the Ministry. The Secretary General has already been
nominated and would work under the two State Secretaries and concentrate
on the day-to-day operations of the Ministry. The Executive Council con-
sidered the idea of an interdepartmental coordination committee on agri-
cultural policy, but decided against it for fear of overloading the system
with an additional structure. Instead, it recommended that the Minister of
Agriculture make one report a month on agricultural policy and problems to
the "Comite de Conjuncture ", an interdepartmental body which meets regularly
to review Government-wide policy questions.
53.       The basic orientation of the Action Plan is sound.  The momentum of
change which has been created should be maintained and should provide a clear
framework for future support to Zairian agriculture. First, technical assist-
ance could be more effectively used than in the past and further requirements
more readily identified. Second, the proposed investment plan should provide
a focus for review of future development projects. And third, the assessment
of critical and immediate sector needs, focused on the private sector, should
provide a clear framework for balance of payments or short-term recovery
assistance to the sector. Once these mechanisms are in place, the many
opportunities for investment, first in rehabilitation and then in long range
development, can be systematically explored with reasonable confidence that



- 20 -
project decisions will reflect a broad sense of priorities, a realistic
appreciation of implementation capacity, and clear links with other invest-
ments in the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and General Description
54.       The proposed Project originated from sector discussions between
the Bank and the Government of Zaire late in 1980 and in January and March
1981. An Agricultural Action Plan (paras. 15 and 47) has been developed by
the Government; it represents a first step in the Government's definition of
its agricultural strategy and the initial phase of the action needed to carry
it out. The Government of Zaire has requested IDA financing for a technical
assistance project to help it carry out the Action Plan. Negotiations were
held in Washington from March 29 to 31, 1982; the Government Delegation was
led by the Agriculture Minister Kamitatu Massamba. A project and Credit
summary is given at the beginning of this report. Special conditions of the
credit are summarized in Annex III.
55.       The basic objective of the Project would be to help the Government
implement the Agricultural Action Plan. It would support the Government's
measures to strengthen MARD and its capacity to perform several critical
functions. The main focus of the Project would be to assist the Government
in further elaborating its agricultural strategy and implementing it. This
would be achieved by (a) strengthening the institutional framework of MARD;
(b) strengthening MARD's capacity to effectively implement agricultural
projects and (c) assisting the Government in its efforts to address key
policy issues which affect the performance of the agricultural sector.
These three major components would be complemented by measures to provide
logistic support, performance bonuses and training to selected MARD staff
(paras. 66-67). Finally, limited assistance would be provided to ONDE
(para. 68).
56.       The proposed Project involves a series of specific studies, manage-
ment support, and training measures which support the broader framework set
out in the Action Plan. It would also comprise a series of short term,
intensive reviews designed both to address critical problems and make detailed
implementation proposals, and longer term support for MARD-s planning and
reorganization program. The short term measures are already underway, with
financing under a Project Preparation Facility advance (para. 69).



- 21 -
Detailed Features
A. Project Components
Strengthening of MARD
57.       The immediate objective of this component would be to prepare an
investment program for agriculture for 1982-84; the project would support a
strengthening of MARD's sector planning and programming capacity, assist in
project preparation and in the carrying out of a full review of financial and
budgetary procedures in order to improve them. This assistance would be part
of an on-going reorganization of MARD designed to increase its effectiveness
in the critical areas of planning, project preparation and financial manage-
ment.
58.       Planning.  MARD's current planning capability is very limited and
involves primarily ad hoc studies. Under the Project, the Ministry's planning
systems would be strengthened through provision of short and long term techni-
cal assistance and training of Ministry staff. A senior planner would be
recruited to serve as a senior adviser to the minister, be a member of the
Planning Unit (para. 72), and help in the overall supervision of the planning
efforts supported under the Project. A second internationally recruited
expert would be a key adviser to the Director of Planning and assist him in
(i) establishing sectoral development objectives; (ii) elaborating a program
of action to achieve them; and (iii) translating that program into a specific
investment plan. He would also help in coordinating MARD's activities with
the Ministries of Planning and Finance to assure that planned objectives for
the agricultural sector are consistent with national development objectives.
In order to initiate planning efforts and specifically to assist in preparation
of a three year investment plan for 1982-84, which is urgently required, a
team of three consultants has been recruited for a three month period under
PPF financing (para. 69). This team worked with the Planning Directorate and
senior ministry staff and prepared a draft investment plan in February 1982.
The final plan will form part of the Public Investment Program of the Mobutu
Plan, and will be based on a careful assessment of on-going and planned
projects for the agricultural sector.
59.       Project Preparation.  This planning effort will form the basis for
a continuing effort to reinforce the Planning Directorate and to initiate a
systematic program of identification and preparation of agricultural projects.
A tentative list of project proposals which could be prepared under the Project
is given in Annex IV. Studies would be carried out by internationally
recruited consultants or by the Ministry's staff, as appropriate, and the
preparation program would be periodically reviewed with external financing
agencies to ensure coherence and identify possible financing sources. The list
of projects is indicative and is based mainly on the need to consider, at least
in the short term, projects which would face the fewest constraints in terms
of foreign exchange requirements, transportation and access to markets, inter-
agency coordination and burden on the Government's budget. Locally offered
seminars and about 15 overseas short-term fellowships (three to four months
each) would be provided to improve the project preparation skills of mid-level
staff working in the directorate.



- 22 -
60.       Financial and Budget Management.  The financial and budgeting
operations of MARD appear to be particularly weak. Operational control by the
Minister is severely limited and his role in budgeting seems to be one not of
allocation and decision, but of ratification. Formal and informal contact
between the Ministries of Planning and Finance on the one hand and MARD on the
other appears to be unsystematic and irregular; budgeting and disbursement
procedures appear to be poorly understood by MARD's financing and budgeting
staff. Financial management varies considerably from project to project and
project managers have very limited understanding of financial procedures.
This has resulted in a very poor disbursement record of Government counterpart
funds and generally indadequate budget allocations to MARD. Under the pro-
posed Project, an estimated 18 man-months of short-term consultancy services,
with successive visits by the same consultants, would be provided to advise
the Ministry on clarifying existing procedures for budgetary formulation
and management, to rationalize and streamline those procedures and to train
staff. Consultants would work closely with the director of finance and budget
and the working groups (para. 65). The consultants would also work with the
Ministries of Finance and Planning to institutionalize the basis for better
coordination and systematic communication with MARD. About 15 short-term
overseas and 45 man-days of local fellowships would be provided for training
of Zairian staff from MARD, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Plan-
ning in financial and budgeting matters. The terms of reference for the
consultants would be approved by IDA (para. 70).
Project Implementation
61.       MARD currently lacks an effective organization for managing agricul-
tural projects. Since a large part of its activities are carried out through
project units and most buget resources are allocated to specific projects,
this is a critical problem and contributes both to MARD's overall weakness and
confusion and to the poor implementation record of most on-going projects for
the sector. A particularly serious problem is the current absence of a
Project Management Unit, so that managers of the approximately 60 projects
report to MARD's senior management. Under the proposed Project, a systematic
effort would be undertaken to improve MARD's capacity to monitor and support
project implementation. The Project would assist MARD in the following
specific areas: supervision and control of projects being implemented;
tendering and procurement; and monitoring and evaluation.
62.       Project Supervision.  A short term consultant would be recruited to
review both project managerial and financial control procedures within MARD
(para. 60). The consultant would propose detailed terms of reference for the
new Project Administration Directorate which is being established within
MARD (para. 52), and define a work program for staff training procedures.
In addition, with IDA support, the Government is engaged in a detailed review
of on-going projects which will provide the basis for a comprehensive review
of management problems. This review is the first indispensable step in the
systematic effort to review MARD control procedures. Following this pre-
liminary work, a senior project implementation specialist would be recruited



- 23 -
for a three year period to support the work of the Project Directorate and
to establish new procedures and train staff. About 450 man-days of local
and six short term overseas fellowships (3-4 months) would be provided to
Zairian staff.
63.       Procurement.  Inefficient procurement efforts have been identified
as a serious constraint for many projects. Currently, the preparation of
bidding documents, their format, advertising procedures, bid openings, bid
evaluation and awards of contracts are made in a very unsystematic manner.
Each project tends to have its own coordinator, usually with no procurement
experience, who handles most procurement matters from Kinshasa. The senior
project implementation specialist (para. 62) would also work on procurement.
His role would be to standardize procurement practices and to train project
procurement staff. His first task would be to make proposals on how to
reduce the number of coordinators dealing with procurement matters without
creating a central organization that would be insensitive to priority
needs of each project. He would also seek to establish better procurement
coordination for projects of the same region and to regroup all procurement
routine work, such as obtaining customs clearance, under the responsibility
of a few individuals. The externally recruited adviser would work closely
with the Project Administration director (para. 74) in supervising all
ongoing projects. It would be particularly important to ensure that the
activities of the Project Administration Directorate were closely co-
ordinated with those of the working groups (para. 65). Zairian staff would
be trained on the job in tendering and procurement. About 45 man-days of
local and a limited number of short-term foreign fellowships would also be
provided.
64.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Staff responsible for monitoring and
evaluation are greatly hindered by the lack of funds to travel to project
sites, and by absence of consistent schedules and formats to guide monitoring;
the evaluation activity that does take place is rendered ineffective by a lack
of procedures for incorporating findings into the design of future projects.
Under the proposed Project, short-term consultant services would be provided
to advise the monitoring and evaluation unit within the Project Administration
Directorate on general principles and techniques, data gathering and report
writing formats. The consultants, who would make repeat visits, would also
be responsible for establishing coordination and review procedures between
the work of the monitoring and evaluation unit, the planning directorate, other
sections of the Project Administration directorate, the finance and budgeting
directorate and with the working groups which would review key policy issues
affecting agricultural projects. They would work closely with specialists
financed by other donors on data gathering (para. 46). In addition,
vehicles and travel allowances would be provided to facilitate visits to
project sites by monitoring and evaluation staff. Zairian staff would
receive on-the-job training in monitoring and evaluation techniques. About
75 man-days of local and six overseas short fellowships would also be
provided.



- 24 -
Study of Key Policy Issues
65.       The Ministry-s present staffing does not allow it to review system-
atically or address effectively complex issues such as pricing (para. 33),
the role of the private sector (para. 30), foreign exchange allocation
policies, agricultural credit, and research, training and extension. As
part of the Agricultural Action Plan, working groups are being established
(para. 50) to review these issues in general and as they would specifically
affect ongoing and future projects. These working groups would include
representatives from all relevant Ministries and would subsequently make
recommendations to the Minister who would use the interdepartmental coordina-
tion mechanism (para. 52) to obtain Government decisions on the issues
identified. Consultants services would be provided to advise the working
groups on agricultural credit; on the establishment of incentive systems to
encourage private sector investment; on the rationalization of pricing
policies for agricultural products and the setting up of a systematic price
review mechanism; on the review of the overall foodcrop marketing situation;
on the review of policies regarding the allocation of foreign exchange; and
on research, extension and training. About 60 man-days of local and six
overseas fellowships would be provided to train Zairian staff. Some 18
man-months of short-term consultancy services with repeat visits by the
same consultants would be provided for the working groups. The terms of
reference of these consultants would be approved by IDA (para. 70).
Logistic Support and Performance Bonuses
66.       The Project includes a series of measures designed to address two
critical problems which seriously impair MARD-s effectiveness: the absence of
logistic support at all levels, and the poor financial incentives for Ministry
officers and staff. The Project includes some provisions for basic logistic
support, linked specifically to staff directly involved with the Project.
This logistic support would include vehicles, office supplies and equipment,
and training equipment for an estimated US$350,000. The very low salaries of
virtually all Ministry staff are a serious problem and contribute to a
generally low level of motivation, poor attendance by many staff, and other
difficulties. The Project includes provisions for a pilot program of per-
formance bonuses for about 50 MARD staff. This program fits within measures
already taken by the Government to provide selective performance bonuses to
staff of the Ministries of Health, Agriculture and Rural Development,
Transport and Territorial Administration. Funds have already been earmarked
in the 1982 Government budget for these bonuses. Specific aspects of the
bonus system such as the selection of beneficiaries, the criteria for the
allocation and the bonus level would be consistent with those applied by
the Government more generally and would be discussed at negotiations.
Payment of performance bonuses has already been made in a number of other
projects including IDA-financed projects. The training coordinator (para.
67) would be responsible for making a systematic survey of all the bonus
systems now operating at MARD or in MARD supervised projects and recommend-
ing a bonus system based on that survey after the Project becomes effective.
The Minister of Agriculture would then decide on an appropriate incentive



- 25 -
system shortly thereafter but not later than three months after effectiveness
[Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement]. IDA would finance
about 40% of the bonus costs on a declining scale. This would amount to about
US$170,000 over three years.
Training
67.       The lack of adequately trained and skilled personnel poses severe
constraints for the smooth functioning of MARD. Thus the provision of fellow-
ships for staff training in various areas is an important component of the
proposed Project. Fellowships for foreign training would be provided for a
maximum period of three to four months. The main emphasis would be on local
training through seminars and workshops. Specifically, the training activi-
ties to be undertaken as part of the Project activities (paras 58-65) are
summarized below: (i) 15 overseas fellowships would be financed for staff
of the Planning Directorate; (ii) about 45 man-days of local fellowship and
one overseas fellowship would be financed for Zairians who would work on
tendering and procurement; (iii) about 75 man-days of local fellowship and six
foreign fellowships would be offered to improve skills of staff involved in
monitoring and evaluation; (iv) a total of 15 overseas and 45 man-days of
local fellowships would be provided to improve staff skills on budgeting and
financial management; (v) a total of 60 man-months of local and six overseas
fellowships would be provided for local staff involved in the working groups;
and (vi) training would be provided to ONDE staff in ranch management and in
accounting and finance. A training coordinator would be nominated from within
MARD and would be responsible for the training component activities there and
within ONDE. The responsibilities of the coordinator would include coordina-
tion of the selection of qualified staff for training, establishment of
appropriate mechanisms to make this staff available for the duration of the
program and to afford them appropriate opportunities to apply acquired skills,
preparation of terms of reference for training, job objectives and the prepa-
ration of recommendations on a bonus system (para. 66). Proposed training
programs would be submitted to IDA for approval (Section 3.07 and Schedule 4
of Draft Credit Agreement). The coordinator would also work with the consul-
tants to make them aware of their training functions. Staff training objec-
tives and detailed training responsibilities would be specifically covered in
the terms of reference of the consultants. The training program would be
designed to address specific weaknesses in job skills of the concerned staff.
It was agreed at negotiations that a binding contract would require staff who
had benefited from the Government training programs to work for five years at
MARD or ONDE (Section 3.01 (c)(iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Assistance to ONDE
68.       In its efforts to reduce meat imports, the Government is in the
process of redefining ONDE-s functions. Its responsibilities are expected to
be expanded to include provision of extension services to farmers in specific
areas and a more active role in defining the livestock subsector development
strategies. Further technical assistance is needed to support this systematic
effort to review the status of ONDE and to consolidate several important
project achievements (para. 42). The proposed Project would help support ONDE



- 26 -
as a technically sound and financially self-sustaining entity. Specific
provision would be made to finance technical assistance for ONDE in financial
management, procurement and in ranch management. Limited logistic assistance
would also be financed. The services of two specialists would be provided:
one would be a senior animal production expert for 12 months to advise, train
and provide technical guidance at the ranch level; the other would serve as
procurement manager at Lumbumbashi. About 12 man-months of consultancy
services would be provided to help set up appropriate accounting and control
procedures and to train Zairian staff at ONDE and within MARD. A pick-up
truck, a car and spare parts would be provided as support for ranch management.
An overseas 12 month fellowship for training in accounting and finance, six
overseas short fellowships (3-4 months) for training in veterinary science and
60 man-days of local fellowships would be provided to ONDE personnel.
B. Costs and Financing
69.       Total Project cost is estimated at US$6.0 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$4.8 million (80% of total). The proposed IDA Credit
of US$5.0 million would finance the total foreign exchange requirements plus
about US$0.2 million of local costs, which is justified to assist the Govern-
ment in introducing a performance bonus system (para. 66). Local costs of
about US$1.0 million would be financed by the Government. The Government
would provide in its annual budget funds sufficient to cover its contribution
and make them available to MARD and ONDE at the beginning of each fiscal year
(Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government
requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$600,000 equivalent to
hire consultants to start initial Project activities and to help it prepare
the sub-group meeting on agriculture planned for end June 1982 (para. 52).
Project costs include price contingencies equivalent to 18% of total base
costs. The following annual percentage international price increases were
used: 8% in 1982, 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984 and 7% in 1985. Corresponding
figures for local prices are 20, 16, 14, and 14% respectively. The estimated
man-month cost of expert services would vary between US$12,500 and 18,000
including salary, overhead costs, subsistence and travel. Although these
rates appear high, they are based on actual costs being presently incurred to
secure the services of high caliber experts in Zaire. The allocation of the
proposed Project costs is indicated in the cost table of the Credit and
Project Summary.
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       All specialists and consultants required under the Project would be
employed in accordance with the Bank-s guidelines on the use of consultants.
Their qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment would be
submitted to IDA for approval. IDA-s approval would be subject to evidence
presented by the Government on the measures taken to ensure the availability
of housing, office facilities office equipment and vehicles [see Section 3.03



- 27 -
of the draft Development Credit Agreement]. Because of the small size (about
US$350,000) and the timing of individual purchases, equipment, materials and
vehicles would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures which
were examined during appraisal and are acceptable to the Association (Section
2.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Proceeds from the proposed
Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of the local expenditures for each Project component with the exception of
logistics support expenditures where disbursements would be on the basis of
40% of local expenditures. In the case of bonuses, disbursements would be
based on 60% up to US$85,000 prior to January 1, 1984, 40% up to US$56,000
prior to January 1, 1985 and 20% of local expenditures thereafter. Disburse-
ments against staff bonuses and logistics support expenditures (mainly vehicle
operating costs) would be made against statements of expenditure certified
by the Project coordinator and MARD's Accounting and Finance Manager. A
full documentation would be retained by the Project Coordinator and made
available to IDA for inspection in the course of normal Project Supervision.
Disbursement profiles were not used because of the nature of this Project.
Disbursements are expected to be completed over a two to three year period.
Accounts and Auditing
71.       Separate accounts would be maintained by the Government for all
Project activities and would be audited each year by auditors acceptable to
IDA (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Funds have been
provided under the proposed Project to cover auditing expenses. The auditors
would specifically review and comment on the procedures used for control of
disbursements against statements of expenditure.
C. Project Organization and Management
72.       Direct management responsibility would lie with the Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development. Responsibilities for the implementation of
the planning component and the policy studies, the project implementation
component and procurement matters, and the financial and budgeting activities,
would be vested with the director of planning, the director of project admini-
stration and the director of finance and budget respectively, assisted by the
specialists financed under the Project (paras 57 through 68). The Minister
of Agriculture would be assisted by staff of the Planning Unit (PU) already
established in the Ministry. The PU is presently made up of the State
Secretary for Rural Development, the State Secretary for Agriculture, two
senior advisors to the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Ministry,
and the chief Zairian advisor to the Minister; it would also include four
expatriate advisors including two long-term experts envisaged under the
Project: the senior planner and senior project implementation specialist. The
main function of the Planning Unit is to advise the minister on key strategic
and policy questions. One of the Minister's advisors, a Zairian national



- 28 -
would be nominated as Project coordinator and would be responsible for the
day to day operations of the Project. Under the Minister-s guidance, the
Project coordinator would be responsible for establishing each year an
annual work program to enable the various parties concerned with Project
implementation to monitor all work in progress. Each work program would
present the proposed activities for the forthcoming year and would be sent to
IDA for review by November 1 of each year. It would be accompanied by a
report assessing the Project-s (including ONDE's) progress and achievements as
well as an evaluation of individual consultants performance over the previous
year. The final version of the Annual Work Plan would incorporate comments
and recommendations made by IDA [Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). MARD would prepare a Project Completion Report within six months
after the closing date [Section 3.10(d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement].
73.       The identification, preparation and supervision of studies financed
under the proposed Project would initially be carried out by outside consult-
ants with the assistance of specialists financed under the Project and with
the participation of Zairian staff. This would be done by selecting appro-
priate local staff to work as members of the consultants' team. They would
initially study the methods used by the consultants and be requested to make a
gradually increasing contribution to the team½s work. The training responsi-
bilities of the consultants would be included in their terms of reference.
Responsibility for project preparation would be gradually transferred to the
Zairian staff and the resident specialists on a timetable to be agreed upon
and included in the annual work program. The Government would submit all
proposed studies to IDA for approval with supporting documentation, including
estimated costs, a detailed justification, plan of execution, and supporting
services to be provided (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
74.       The PU would be responsible for reviewing and making recommenda-
tions to the Minister on the following issues: personnel recruitment and
management, review of studies and other proposals, the availability of
counterpart funds, follow-up on recommendations made with respect to annual
work plans or generally on Project implementation. It is envisaged that
experts involved in Project activities would be attached to MARD. The
senior planner would be a senior adviser to the Minister of Agriculture and a
member to the PU. The second planning adviser and the project implementation
adviser would work respectively as advisers to the Planning director and the
Project Administration director. The short-term monitoring and evaluation
specialists and the finance and budgeting specialists would work respectiv,^y
with the Monitoring and Evaluation Division, the Directorate of Planning and
with the Finance and Budgeting Directorate.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
75.       The Government's capacity to plan effectively and to implement
the agriculture sector investment program; to carry out effective project



- 29 -
supervision and implementation; and to address key policy issues would be
enhanced as a result of Project activities in assisting sector planning and
project preparation; project implementation, monitoring and evaluation; and
the review of key policy issues. This is expected to lead in turn to the
establishment of a pipeline of well-prepared priority projects. The Project
would also be expected to bring an improvement in overall financial management
of MARD and of the sector as a whole.
76.       It should be recognized that the Project entails several risks
mainly because it depends on an institutional environment which has not been
conducive in the past to meaningful performance by MARD and past technical
assistance efforts. In addition it faces the usual problems of recruiting
suitable advisors and consultants capable of cooperating with and training
local staff, and of finding and retaining Zairian counterparts. Finally,
there is a risk that the Government will not act effectively to implement
policy measures and actions recommended. An effort has been made to reduce
the first and third risk elements mentioned above by the way the Project has
been designed with a limited scope and with a clear focus on the Action Plan
(para. 47). To help reduce the personnel risk, and to improve the quality of
consultants, the Government is considering their recruitment through a
consulting firm, in so far as possible, and through careful selection of
individuals. With regard to local staff, it should be possible to attract and
retain qualified local staff to the various Project activities given the large
training component and availability of performance bonuses (paras. 66 and 67).
To minimize the risk to the Project of high staff turnover, it was agreed to
have binding contracts between the Government and national staff benefitting
from training programs (para. 67).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire
and the Association and the recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
78.       Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
mentioned in the text and are listed in Section II of Annex III.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 30 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
(for) A. W. Clausen
President
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1982



31 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                   Page  1  of  5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVyiRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2345.4                                MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     310.0              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       170.0      260.0                238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      97.6       105.4     102.5                  70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0     21638.0   27509.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7        21.6      32.7                  17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      49.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.6         9.2       11.7                 27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     58.0        69.0      86.3                  73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        44.3      44.7                  44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                         52.9        52.9      52.6                  52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.8       2.7                   2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.0       2.7                   2.6                    2.8
URBAN                                          5.2       7.3                   6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.1         47.1      45.9                  46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.2        21.3       18.1                 19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       3.0                   3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         101.0       101.0      88.0                  89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  100.0       101.0     104.0                  90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          36.0        37.0      36.0                  52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        13.0      10.0                  17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     35.7        31.6      25.4                  27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0         42.9      46.8                  45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0      16.0                  23.9                   27.4
URBAN                                         33.0      43.0                  55.0                   74.3
RURAL                               ..         4.0       5.0                  18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         5.0      22.0                  26.2
URBAN                               ..         5.0      67.0                  63.5
RURAL                               ..         5.0       6.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         37621.6     29300.8   15529.3               31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3511.7      5067.3    1938.0                3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            230.9       320.0     339.0                1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                             57.2        96.8     145.0                 272.8                  423.0
RURAL                            770.5      1066.7   2622.5                 1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..         6.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
- 32-
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIHATE)-
HOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                60.0        88.0       90.0                 56.4                   73.7
HALE                 88.0       110.0     103.0                  70.7                   96.8
FEMALE               32.0        65.0      77.0                  50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 3.0         9.0       19.0                 10.0                    16.2
MALE                  4.0        13.0      23.0                  13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                1.0         4.0      14.0                   6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 27.0          10.0      13.0                  8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO         -
PRIMARY                           40.0        43.0        ..                  46.5                   36.2
SECONDARY                         20.0        20.0      27.0                  25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       31.0/c       13.0      15.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         3.0       3.6                   2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         2.9       4.8                  32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          *-         0.3       0.3                   1.9                    8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  1.0         9.2        1.8                  2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1         0.1        0.1                  1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8215.5       9464.8   11395.3
FEHALE (PERCENT)                  46.4        44.5      42.8                  34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.0        79.0       75.4                 80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.0        11.0      12.8                   8.6                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.3        43.7      41.4                  41.7                   37.2
MALE                                51.9        49.8      48.2                  54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                              41.2        38.0      34.8                  29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1        1.1                  1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0                  84.5                  156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      76.0                  99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      43.0                  61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962.
May, 1981



-  3-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS 0f SOCIAL INDICATORS
fNerce;  Although the data ate Arso  f-c at.   enrlylda  the sect authoritativ, and elieble, it ehocid nico hc noted that they   y non be itete-
nritellcomnrnhs heaus  of the lath of stnodArdc   dfinto.ed concet:.:usd hp differen.t ocuetrice io  oleto   the date.  Th. dens are,et
thelc,  cfu  t  deerh  orer  of sagoItude,tdicasted,ad                     tarctert    eti   ao    ifreeehretcutis
The rtsecegops 5             ' Itthe s    .. coutry gopof the aubi.cn.. ctry end2 Sl a.. cutryguyec s         o-p mec...h.t high. caverage ioose tha the coutr -gou
of the cobj -c cctry7 ..ncer  for'              .,ptoiSorl   Oiltrree  grou  eher  'Middle 1oos  north A,frtca Sod Muddl  ken1"L!teohocee1 hecauce of etron.gSt
eo-ulraeffinitica).  Ictha rafarsetc  group data the  -vragcae  ouato   enhs  atneto _en Sfor s_h indttr no   hc   ny ettan
sajoriny of the  onte  ire  g,b~rou     daeft  fo  tentdieto.t           I% hM -.1a Sinc  nhe coverage of_oounnrieaeat  th- nicnrcernac  teaah htySfdn
end isntcifor,cuinentheecsd noreetn s                              Se.ge  of one iodirator no another.  The nrSeaeol   sful in  cspan   the valu  of
one indicator at e tiee  -San  the country end referece  rae
LAND AREA (thousan d eq.ke.l                                                                      vunioo)teia   e  -"%      1    tor,. ocher, end rural1  Porulatoninoni
Tonal - Tot.1 e        Sfteen   cosprisinS lend eraeninod enesIce,sd rurailZ tidedby thiar re-pe-ni-e nus     of h.etalhd
Acrtou1tur.1 - 9te-t.mt  of agriruitru     urocensprit  or., j        petmaenni                  n_ilahie. in pnhit o ed    Itan   genre1 edSpeiotd    hoePptl.  ed re-
fop orore, pasnacee. mackct cod kitchen en-dec  or to lie fallow; 1978 detn.                  hehilitetio-octrs. HoPtnlaccal u Sprsnoly etffed
by at li.ert... physician.  Osnablihenspondn T            rI=oipltyas
lGNP PtR CAPITA (US$1 -.GcAP pen cap ita ee  Sae   t rurrec  -akht prto-,ee-                       dial: core .ace nor i-oded.  oRal1 hospitals, ho-eve,  eoluds h-aah
oulne  byl ea    _ ocvretot  -1chd ec acrid BSok ucles (1977-79 hactel; 1990,                  edeielcnrSoorpar....ecly staffed by a pytiac (hut by
17,ad 199dt.sdioa1 ...tun  cre  cIdmif., Stc.) shed  offert-.                                                                                                in    ce
deni, and prooid  a luined roege of s-dic-I futilitiS.  Per  _tata
ENERGYt CONSUMPTcION PER CAPITA - u-...I coreumptict of occrla  anry  ca                           ticul purpnes urban hoeplteie inoluds WHfO. pohacipal1genr.  hoptl.
nod lignite, petrolecs,  atutel gas nod hydr-, oceradgohca  ciec-                                an  rua opital  icoal" or rur.   hsiaSWan  sedtcl an  stenity
rtocciyl in hilog-es  of coa  suualt  peo onpita; 1960. 1970, ned 1979                          cncS.  p:ccalued hosPitlar  included only under total.
dat.                                                                                          Adisios  e  IteIte1 Sad - Ttota  tushe  of adguat.e. to or disohergee
fro- oprl  divided by the rusher of beds.
POPULlTIPn AND VITAL STATItTICS
d   ~~~~~~~~~~Ttool Porulantoc  Mid-Year (thocade) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979                               HOUlSINGO
data..                                                                                        Avrg hoe !i f tdcueshold locf snsPordiusodII - hntn.  rhen., and cad
rhnPoculnio  (reroent of nontl) -  ai   f unhac to totel populco;Ahoehl   oeen   fegop  fidtdal   h   ho  inn    unr
dtIleec  defiatione of urhesrea Sayefc   oprblt   fl dta                                      and their sect -.aIa.  A hoarcder or lodge  eYo  ca  nt he moldedit
asan  ....nctics; 1960, 1970, etA  197  daa                                                   the household for statietiolprpss
Pooulattor Projection                                                                         uocaaacr of ocr.... per r...-  ore%l. ucs..nd rural - hv-rgc sa
Popuintoa  o yea  101  - CurreI popeIti-c prcjectioas nos baso  on190                     e  of persona pe :ro  io eI uhbn, and rural ....uptid coovetiam
tonal poyc11iari  hb  age  Sud es cd their eortslity and fertilit  cae.Aelig.ree iieyrhligettue  o-eSssn   tutree Sod
Projstion raa_esfor Scrtelity rates  _oprier of thre  leve S   ace                          ocopedpr
log life nopeotcya.   t hitc ha   tee "g  u    oo r'e per capita moose.                   Ac....to il-otricir   loroan of dnelltsi -hoe.ubnad rural -
leve, Sad fan1l  life n peotnoyecbt ing  r 7 .5 yar.  The pare-                             Coor.ntior..  dwellings ethb elrerhinyr in  ivn   qaneaperr..etgs.
estersfo  Ontlcy re   sle  har   hrele-                ecun   dlins ic                      of total,_uhno, and rura  deIlings rePectively.
f_rnilltparodio  to i..o.. lere  cnd pSa teefly Plann.ing pronoe
Eaohf countryh i het.. icegad one of these nite  _osin.rio_  of -crtelity              EDUCATION
and frtility treode for projection puep..e..                                              Adiuentd Etoro1leen  taica
ntc.ionarr rorcldti.to-a        cio...ry  .poplation chore is no aroeth siaca                 Priero scol    onl saeed                 e-rc   toa, Sal  and f-1al
the birtch rat  IS equal to bch  denh race, Sod also the  g   tutr   e                         tolsto   l    s  en n S  he prmrylve   epectae    f re:poctne
siecntn.Thie ie eohi-ndonyfrrfetlty mc    coien                                      primry School-g ....       crn;  oml ...Icludee rbildree ag" 6-li
the replaceete leve  of -ite  .ct ccprdnotioc ret, 4he  noo  ge. rstonYears hut adlntd for diff -not _nothe of primar   dnoatiog; fct
of __sa  r          itse    .iref ...aonlp.  The stetto_ry populntion Sie..e                  coautris  wich  ucce   ducation Snro1lset sep  -eced 10O  pee.ta
ieSt;etd on nha basis of the projec~ted choroneietioc of the popolenino                       since . so'spupl  are belowo  shone th  officie1 Schoni Sgp
to th    _er 110. adthe resc  deflios of' fr ity  -et  to retac-teona....l-  otl   _ain ad feml    Cmu_                                             _ eaoneeodr
sent level.                                                                                   eduo..tit requires at leas  foot yoac- of aPrr-vd Priay  nnucim
Y...etatiano-yorlairI  reached - The year when s-sihowry porulatico                             prvdegncl   oainl   rtahr training instrureo.. foe pupik
sice ha. beet reached.                                                                        usel.     f 12 to  7peso   g;rcepndteruesr   eeal
Porulenioc De-ity                                                                                  en dladed
Per so.  Ha     id-year populetlot pet  equre kiloseter 1110 huctares) of                     fcrainn_l enolet(prernt of scoondact) - Vo,ational inetituti.ue
totel eSo; llb 19 71 end 1979 date,                                                          include terheical  industrial,cohr prorae  hith  parate indPood-
Per eq. he. aeriou1turel lend - C.ep.ned aS  bhor  f or agrlcltura1 latd                        erl   casdrtset   fesodr                    'iaaetuiie
ony  1960. 1970 er   96dt.Pucil-toarhe ratio - ececro  an d .....  Yr  - Intel eteece  mr1ld in
Population. Aan trenoture festost  - Children  (I-l4 year),  ecig-g    15-                        pVeaY Sndss-onday lerela divided hy  _use-  of raktsi  the
6h years>. and retired 165 pere Sod  00r         pretgsof end-pear popu-                        corepndn   lvls.
natin; 161,  971,and1979 data.                                                          Autlnro  rt   ctei    litera.te adolts lahs in read end wits)
tnaion lcwt  tat plorc..nt) - tonal - dunol groet  Paine of nons1 mid-                         Seee        tanag   o  tonal adalt popolannon sed 15 peers endovr
year populatlooc for 1950-il, 1960-70, and 19710-79.
Pooclatio .Iv.e.h  tan  lperrent) - other - A--uI groeth p5t.5 of urban pcpu-               CONSUMtPTION
hein   or15-I   _90-1,ad 1970-79.                                                       PassngarCor  te  housand aelr l-Psegcor  cospriss trot
Crd  i`=ae  erthuad  -Sotoa  lire hurtle per thb.....d of end-yearcer  gearin  lc the  eight prSon;ecue   cuecs   erc   n
popuatio; 196,190.en0       17  dat.                                                         ilinepenls
Crde Death RSate logo thousand) - Annul denthe ptr tho....nde of cid-yeec                    Radio O.oire  lrpthocsnrd populatioa  - All typos ofreivsforao
populaIon;  aiD. 170,Sod 1979 den.-                                                     b-osdcsts. no gnera  rublin per rho....Ad of pprlsnmom; ...dec W
GrssRro    duS    iRS RaeA'etge nubrt   agnss   enrnl  ha  nlon    rceirere  In conhSoad it peers  h-nrelrtc   of radio
her noma  repoouoire period if she: Peieospeen   g-SPcific fec_                                 ennn -In effeot; data for c n  years cap not be cospereble Si--e
tillrysrrs;uuallpfiv-pear  -reregg   -odig ir 160, 1970, and 1979.                      cotcunre  aoikd laig
PesIt lnom   -  ecetors. co'ua1 (thousands) '- do-ol rushe  of ecospeeore              ITVacivr  fre  toead pown tit  - It .reetoer  toe broa.dcast  to
of birth-control devices order  ..pi... of  atio"aI fesily planting progra.                   genra  publio Pee thoeaad population;  -uludne nelt....nd TV Pre..i-ers
femlr Pl-nir-ees         oprcn  of earried woma) - -Pecetage of -caried                          it .nutrie  an Sd hr peers ehe. cgisiretio  of TV sees eec In  fet
wome  of  kildbeaing  ge (5-4 yar) who use birhk-onorldvcst                          eeae   ioltce  ertocn   ocnin                         hw  thehevereg  tic
dl tid nouSo in  oe  e  group.                                                           oulatrionof "daily generel intere  nwps',dfindas    eioia
publiontior devotd prisrily to tr..crdnai og ales.IiS cone dse
POOl ANI NUTRITtION                                                                                to he "daily" if inppt      se   latIot  tis             k aIab
Inden of Pood Prodution per Cpitre 71969-71-IR0) - nodno of per ospira soua                   Cites dA--I Attendano  rat Cets ee  ta- heed on the nushe  of
Porooin f-      l  fond o-ediles-  Prdureeclodee seed end feedr end                           tinkat  eold. during the Peer, molding adeisetone rr driv-tn otnea
is or!clnarpe Y"        is  Coseditil  corer primay guodeS(e.g.  soaroan                      and   :,hi.  eite.
instead of sugar) ehc   r   dible se   onan odie(e.. coffee ad
tea err Sue laded).  Aggregate pr-d-otir  of eac h coun try is base.d onLAneR PFOtCE
_etimn_l __rgc producer pric  eighte; 191-5, 1710, aid 1979 dana.                          Tmcl Labor fo.rce (thoo-ds) - tc-noslclyp -ct- pereowa, moi               n
Per onoira curtly of caois(era  o               crsrs     Cmue   rname   otsadueployed but secludiug hoceewl-e, endeure, etc
enrgy rqcr"en  ofre  fodeple   rtlbe                   onrfero  iacrru  popultion  f allegee   9sinetd                                        c  aios  ontis  r
per day.  Arailable ePpplie  cmriss do...stic production.  mports lestot co.parabla;t 190,1970 sod  9199da.
poprrt, end choges       Ito'stoc . n   auplies ncldeahlfnd,           seeds,             Pesal  (vetort).. - Pssalelebnr foroces peocertage of tota  lebar forte.
qu -rrleue  in foprceiganloeetdltbro.   qt-                                         hagri talut  (mretrea) -        lao   e   ntrig   oetry, hunting and
mnte were etimated by Pufbased on phyclological coltfir n-ee  ac-                           fibI speoraeofttllbor forte; 1960, 1970 and 1909 data.
rnyadbath   ..asidet,iSg inrhrotrlreprrr,body weights, ege                         lnduar-yerei -pc       Laborfrei.ma   oereto   austc
or ieedet_ oioir of  popcltic  en   lo ing            pettrt. for eases St             anSlcrct.  ee n e   as prcreg  ofroelbor fore  1960,
h..ethold level; 19h1-5. 170,  rd 1977 deca.                                               1970 and 1979 dae
Per caprOmspl   fm O          .eee  pre  dspy  - Protin  otn  ofpe   cpta                     errraicPn  (.re "tret    tota,leenfsl-Pripitto
oe .sPply offod per day.  Net euPply of loud ie  eieA ssoe   Re-                         soroity cares ete cumpufed se tonal,male,ardfsale. labr foroes"
quemar  fralI otrheeI ecosbi!hehd by USDA pr-nidn for tinu                          pPc'r..n..    f  total  eale end femal  popel.iotnof c  al  a gasrepeotirely;
S   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~lcoe   f 601R nin   of  toce  rotio  p.r dsp and 20 grate of erco  erd                                 1960, 1970,. and  91979 dare    h. mc  ar  bace  -0 LI'. e ptrnipation rates
pulse proet   fwdh1  rvceol  eaia   rcl.  Thee sco-                                         relci---ese  ectr  of the popeetto,sd ln  rs  trend.  A
crinol proteir as no average for rho  -oId, propose.d by  FAl to the Third               toonsiSDIpcnden-y Rtint - Ratio of population under 15 and 67 aed ove r
arld Peed S-ryac; 1901-05, 2970 and 1977 dr.                                               torho tota  labor force.
Per eaplta potalo pcoly tree oimeIr  rle   - Protho epyl  of food de-
rived fron erisele and pulsesIv  ru E.wPer dop;10-0,71970y aol 1977 lets.       INiCOME DIIutIOITIo
Child lne1-4) Mortalitr  ae  e   hosn) -  reo  drb   peSI                  call                ecneeu   roc    et(kc  oco   r   Id      roodh   lb
-  oae  roup 1A peae, to  bhidre  it tis ageatone;lee cst derlopingoun                               perceor, richest 20 percent, poores t 20 ptccrt, and porSt 40 pe-et
triec data de-ted free hife tbl.e; 1960, 1970 acd t979 dote,                                  ofhosol.
LInto hoc-ryoeSt tirth (et)- -.r.tgc nuabee ot yOsrs of life  -emiring                      POEThe follow iGeUStn tee see  e-py epprSiote ae e            f pro-rty len1s,
orhtch;ithI   a1eA  99lo                                                                  en(,c  hd sol   eicpe        irh ceriderehlnceutio..
Infac.nralo  Ras(e  hoed) -     . A            Iua  destho ci intents crder ... peer          Eaticoted Abeo1ere Porert, boot L-e1e (RiS$prcptl-r                    o   ee
ofag  per rhoeno  lie  orhe                                                                Abeolto  po-pry ioose lc'e1ISi that iec   re   eo  whih a n.inle
koeetoOe  cate  (rer1oe-o of, cooclarwico:hcrl ur,,bl:   c   url-ca .ro..u1triirladqe                                    ie         --u etrial.. nrfcc d requtresett  ic  o
bee o  pepe(toal  ohr, er   ea)eeraealacsrsi                                                    odchi.
oneey op(cld Setrae   Ser ace nrer  00etreated hu   ----ttres                          Eteicared nRStir  Poer  ocs  ee  (USl per -Vitoa  - urkan cod rmral-
enoerechasehc  Promprotcte Porp eee  syio i.an    ntay reli) as                         Rural releti-c po-rty taro   -ow  le one-third of e-eregsps.rrpioc
of their  aspeetir  populocrve.  IraorkevoreSePbie                     yeerlo          efrthec.otrrr.  Urberl1-1lISuderisd fretheorra1
1-tduot   ors Indu r -iotdocar thr10sersfro  a he-s  a  heY bre c:1:,hi  td)etent for highercs  of1p   to bhn  areas
consideredehlnoti  recohenc                     f tha  house.  It rural eraseP
oeseoe glsc   itsnoul   imply that bs hosd   cc rockers of the househotd             PiSete1d Proei B elow AbsoluePrroIcmlvl  ernl-uho
doret, hoPon        depoeigprcportic...te  part or the dsp  I.tPeching t1he                           _1         .1o eoIcio  .b.    odrr".h.r
A co... to teepte tunesa         ..e    t of pocete -tee1 ur           So ad totl -
perce....ngs of their resp-orlre populriors. ftoreta dispsa copi - include
ihe coletonod disposal. nub or anchoor treaten ...  ofhome  endretaEoi    o    -.   .qD~..
,Idatenae  by-e--bo-n  spetee er the cee of Pit  rmotes end  imi                                                                    orncndSoa   .9Ioso
let inseltoS.                                                                                                                te ioml  Aeolyrts .d Pr-i-o1t.. Rac--sot
Popuatin on  Phnirco -Poyclatier dicjdad hbyce  of practiting pbysi-                                                                         MSY 1991
ohec  qualified from  Seduclscolauirrepee
Prcec   rc turinaPron    oulto  divided by number of p-eotting
aleco -Pal  good oats              -cee,ratic.l c.ce.  and e...etnuss



ANNEX I
-34-                                                   Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(million US$ at      Share of GDP at Market Prices t%)          Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)               (at current prices)              (at constant 1970 prices)
1980                            1980                      1978       1979       1980
Gross Domestic Product-           5,948.0                          100.0                     -5.3         0.3        2.4
(GDP Commercialized)             (4,749.7)                          -                       (-6.3)       (0.2)      (2.3)
Agriculture                     1,760.4                           29.6                      0.0         3.1        2.3
Industry                        1,408.7                           23.7                     -8.6        -6.4       4.3
Services                        2,563.4                           43.1                     -5.1         4.7       4.5
Consumption                       4,456.5                           74.9                    -12.02,      -3.2        3.9
Gross Investment                  1,241.5                           20.9                    -52.0-       43.5       37.2
Exports of GNFS                   2,154.4                           36.2                     27.0       -17.0        2.7
Imports of GNFS                   1,904.4                           32.0                    -21.8        -6.7      -5.1
Gross national savings            1,502.0                           25.3                      8.7         6.0        0
PUBLIC FINANCE-/ (Central Government)                   (million 7)                         Z of GDP
'A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1977        1978          1979             1977       1979
Current revenues                              731.0       1,930.0       3,738.6          13.3        22.4
Current expenditures                        1,145.2       2,171.0       3,456.5          20.9        20.8
Current deficit                              -414.2        -241.0         282.1          -7.6         1.7
Capital expenditures                          113.8         129.0         246.4           2.1         1.5
Overall deficit                              -528.0        -370.0         35.7           -9.6         0.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   1978             1979               1980
(million Z outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                     1,854.5          2,084.9            3,367.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             1,578.3           2,062.2            2,329.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               641.0            878.7            1,014.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)          33.8             18.8               20.2
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100)4/                         453.4            912.7            1,339.0
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                                       48.5            101.3               46.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                 49.6             30.7               13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                20.1             37.1               15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the
economy and should be used and interpreted with caution.
3/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
4/     Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX I
- 35 -                          Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1978         1979        1980
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                     1,665.0       1,914.6    2,087.1
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,575.4       1,834.0    1,953.6
Imports of goods and services                     1,786.6       1,967.3    2,219.9
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,024.6       1,106.9    1,201.3
Net transfers                                        38.8          67.6       133.3
Current Account Balance                             -82.8          14.9         0.5
Public Capital (net)                                122.7         -49.6        23.8
Private Capital and
errors and omissions                             -369.4        -220.4      -278.5
SDR Allocation                                        -            20.4        20.6
Other Financing2.'                                  405.0         297.2       265.5
Net international reserves (- . increase)           -75.5         -62.5       -31.9
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                           Z 1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                         Z 1.00 =SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                           B 1.00 =SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                      Z 1.00 =SDR 0.158
Average exchange rates
1978                                                   US$ 1.00 =B 0.836
1979                                                   US$ 1.00 = & 1.729
1980                                                   US$ 1.00 = B 2.800
1981                                                   US$ 1.00 =B 5.407
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)           million US$      %
Minerals and Petroleum                 1,536.6      78.7
Others                                   417.0      21.3
Total                                1,953.6    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1981-                      (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                         4,175.1
Non-Guaranteed                                           350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                         4,525.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-                                Z
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             16.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                       US$ million
(As of March 31, 1982)                 IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                80.63   174.90
Undisbursed                            e       149.93
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed         80.63   324.83
l/  Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency
assistance, and profit on gold sales.
2/  These figures show the position as at June 30, 1981 after
account is taken of the estimated effect of the Paris Club
Agreement of July 1981.
3/  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services. Represents actual payments.
February 22, 1982



- 36 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower                   Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                         100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                  104.00       0.79 3/
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00       1.80
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00       9.24
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00       3.61
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00       3.05
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                  10.00        .38
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00       8.37
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00      19.23
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00      14.31
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50      16.01
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00       9.94
1089       1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          26.40      24.30
1152 4/    1982       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu                 2.90       2.90
Technical Assistance
1180 5/    1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        26.00       26.00
Total (less cancellations):                      191.58       325.30    149.93
- of which has been repaid                     110.95         0.47
Total now outstanding:                          80.63       324.83    149.93
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, and Credit 272-CK, originally
US$6.5 million, have closed with undisbursed balances of US$80,000 and
about US$480,000 respectively which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has
several withdrawal applications pending which, when paid, will leave a
balance of about US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed July 23, 1981, but is not yet effective.
5/ This credit was signed March 10, 1982, but is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                Page 2 of 7
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                80.63     324.83_
Total Undisbursed:                                0.0                 149.93
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year       Obligor                Business       Loan  Equity   Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC            -     0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -          2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -          1.61
Total gross commitments                4.11  0.76    4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                              0.83   -       0.83
Held by IFC                            3.28  0.76    4.04
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                             Page 3 of 7
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. Overall
project execution is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit is expected to
close as scheduled.
Credit 624-ZR          Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeds available funds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out. The
ability of the Project Unit to implement the remaining components or a revised
project is, being assessed and a decision on utilization of the remaining credit
balance will be made before the closing date.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices were doubled for the purchases of the campaign which began in
December 1981. The sale of textile stocks has stagnated, however, owing to a
dramatic increase in the import of used clothing. The Government is exploring
appropriate measures to reduce the impact of the sales decline which has created
a severe liquidity problem for the cotton companies. These measures will form
part of a program of a proposed Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                          Page 4 of 7
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision
of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the
Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
commodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays
in setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Constraints
remain the very high costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low
prices for beef, late receipt of government counterpart funds, and the so far
unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank notes in December 1979. The
ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it. Despite
the constraints and the delayed start up remarkable results have been achieved.
They include;(i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension serice; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing.
Credit 710-ZR         Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.  In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
*         has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key



ANNEX II
- 40 -                             Page 5 of 7
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened ,hree regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects.  The credit will close at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-ZR          Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills. The second company has placed
equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting and oil
mill rehabilitation program.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes trach rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. Technical progress of project implementation has been
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
- 41-
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. Decentralized maintenance operations are being carried out
effectively in Bas Zaire and Bandundu and are serving as models for other
areas. A fifth project designed to consolidate maintenance/rehabilitation
activities and operations during 1983-85 has been appraised.
Credit 998-ZR          Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of March 31, 1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component. SOFIDE has also committed funds in
excess of US$1.5 million for the working capital component and these are being
reviewed. Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate rapidly in the
latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval of sub-projects
and the placement of orders.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
sector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
- 42 -
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project include (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data
processing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot
projects to promote food crop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and procurement is well advanced. Foreign exchange allocations
to the Compagnie Sucriere (implementing agency) for operation and maintenance
have been below the agreed level; Government has been informed and has indicated
that remedial action will be taken promptly.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million
Credit of March 10, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The Credit is not yet effective.
.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
- 43 -
Z A I R E
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I - TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Identification                           December 1980
(b)  Appraisal                                May/June 1981
(c)  Negotiations                             March 29-31, 1982
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness   :        September 30, 1982
SECTION II - SPECIAL CONDITIONS
The Government would:
(i)  decide on appropriate bonus system within three months
after effectiveness (para. 66);
(ii) submit proposed training programs to IDA for approval; and
ensure that a binding contract would require staff who had
benefited from the Government training programs to work for
five years at MARD or ONDE (para. 67);
(iii) provide in its annual budget funds sufficient to cover its
contribution and make them available to ONDE at the beginning
of each fiscal year (para. 69);
(iv) submit to the Association for approval all terms of reference,
qualifications and draft contracts for the services of resident
specialists and short-term consultants prior to signing such
contracts; IDA's approval would be subject to the Government
having made available the required housing and office facilities,
office equipment and vehicles (para. 70);
(v)  prepare an annual work plan for the activities of any given year
and submit it to IDA for review no later than November 1st of the
preceding year (para. 72);
(vi) prepare a project Completion Report within six months after the
Closing Date (para. 72).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
- 44 -
Z A I R E
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Preparation Activities
An indicative list of project preparation activities to be financed              £
under the project had been agreed as follows:
1. Agricultural Services Project
2. Foodcrop and Erosion Control Project in Bas-Zaire
3. Livestock Project
4. Kwango-Kwilu Rural Development Project
5. Maize Project in the Kasai Occidental
6. A Forestry Project
7. Loalla Valley Rural Development Project



JFFFF  6r ttg;Wt                                   N                                                                                   s, :i  .'  A NC-|
a-hXr3 I<E                   PUBL C'~' L''~'    ¶7;    r        l r E         66r6 -  LOR   ' ~r,.<,>,   BAS-LELE  -         FAUT
OF JR              tur;C                t   _-3          MONGAA I . 
_.1 >      F   t    ,           7 z.  7i L E:    5 t¢'         >3 >A G                  tQ m2               6 m6 >>  . H6                       .-
UBANGJ>                                                    HAU  Z-  A IZ
366F6F½   ' N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A )                                   6,~~~~H A T  Z>   AII  R
! 5' j. [ iiU   o  /tcWfU           'E      R    F9t5Extl<p,EQUATEUR                                 ,-           -
;E .1.1'.                                      ; tEQIJATEUR        -.    >;~Nt A_AIT                            'iR'             Fi
Q3~~~~~~6                              1/    i                6i =    KWNG                                  <,r.,jX D   ~ S TNGeYk         
N.=                                                           EN i"ii:  :\2 .|\, 5    :;   ;i 0;       i ( <   e       4El oe*           . ' s :
N~~~~~~~~~~~~"
<<FAl-N[                                                         -3 -,MF' 
.) i2            0                                       ; i , .- 2.  SHU: ),                                       $    $A f-IOAM  **C  2 -  > 
fl\                                                                 . ............ ..  e:  :h : -   F K -                     eX: QRWig ;^4H; 1;sl t ''>a4''  H  AA AA   ' ;
10~~~~~~~~~7 F-0?   7IAIAA                                  i f;    2;
C6FlF66                    KWILU 
,-   ;9-          -BAYK  -.'-                                                                         >7  9 i :  1  - ' X ,$      StT-SIAt~53
.( ; 'TAN'5  ';?:  '                                                                     ' A ' '  'N:ib2"; "  '::§24;14; {'  < ~  /;    t  r     ;; i.        ;
"F-                ''~~~~~~ TANGANYINA
:;i:;i:in:~~~ <36                                            'F  i06--)                                   6pSD bt  0i,      -i* '7pi6ei.i*g,; ]<5 
~~   r'    HAU?JlfIMAM    s
C6OC6666C6.~~~ ~ ~     S.-'-'  -  <'  V  ; C                                                                6  -  -;  OF   -- :-l         1  S  :.j; f;    : gu      :0   ::)S    
OF EARRE;                                             0            i'        AI - l \LL THABAq   0   :E   n   05   3 S HABA
REPUBLIC~~                                                                ~         ~~~~~~~~~~ I IFA). A
AGRICULTUaLPVEC   RA -,                                                         
At API  M'6'LION  066                                  c'<-          >         F{                         Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7A M$BA
39    6           GE/LA                   B                                  ((P666.6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G9l
6                           )                        ru,, 636~~~~~~~~~Z



