                               PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                               APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                         Report No.: 33533
 Operation Name                      CO First Programmatic DPL for Sustainable Development
 Region                              LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Sector                              Health (35%); Sub-national government administration (35%);
                                     General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (30%)
 Project ID                          P081397
 Borrower(s)                         GOV OF COLOMBIA
 Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Finance, with support from the Ministry of
                                     Environment, Housing and Regional Development and the
                                     National Planning Department
 Date PID Updated                    September 8, 2005
 Date of Appraisal                   March 29, 2005
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval              June 21, 2005

1. Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement

Environmental degradation disproportionately affects poor people's health and productivity and thus increases
inequality within society. Urban environmental problems are most frequently threats to present or future human
well-being, resulting from human-induced damage to the physical environment. This includes inter alia: (i)
localized environmental health problems such as inadequate household water and sanitation and indoor air
pollution; (ii) city-regional environmental problems such as ambient air pollution, inadequate waste management
and pollution of rivers, lakes and coastal areas; and (iii) extra-urban impacts of urban activities such as natural
resource degradation / depletion in surrounding areas together with global environmental problems (e.g., global
climate change).

On a global scale, lack of access to clean water and sanitation as well as indoor air pollution are among the
principal causes of illness and death, predominantly affecting children and women in poor families. Modern
hazards such as urban air pollution and exposure to hazardous wastes add to these traditional hazards. For
Colombia, the five highest environmental problems in terms of the cost of environmental degradation amount to
3.7% of GDP. These costs are mainly linked with increased mortality and morbidity and decreased productivity
associated with the following environmental issues, namely (i) inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene;
(ii) natural disasters; (iii) poor urban air quality, (iv) soil erosion and salinization; and (v) the use of fuel wood in
rural households which results in poor indoor air quality.

To address these environmental challenges, the government of Colombia is introducing broad-based reforms to
mainstream environmental management in sectoral policy, in line with their commitment to meet Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) 7, namely to "integrate the principles of sustainable development into country policies
and programs and reverse the loss of environmental resources." In particular, the government of Colombia issued
its 2002-2006 National Development Plan. The National Development Plan does not have a specific chapter on
environment; rather it stresses the integration of environmental issues into national priorities, namely, ensuring
democratic security, economic growth, employment, social equity and public participation. In addition to the
National Development Plan framework, the government of Colombia has also merged most of the functions of the
Ministry of Economic Development (e.g., housing, water and sanitation and zoning) with the Ministry of
Environment to create the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Regional Development (Ministerio de
Ambiente, la Vivienda y el Desarrollo Territorial, MAVDT), allowing for the integration of principles of
sustainable development in key thematic areas (e.g., water supply and sanitation, air quality, urban planning).

2. Operation Objectives

The proposed loan is the first in an expected series of quick-disbursing loans aimed at supporting the government
of Colombia's interdisciplinary sustainable development program. This first loan supports initial actions that are
vital steps in the government's program. These actions include: developing a results-based framework for
planning and monitoring progress of the Colombian National Environmental Management System (SINA)
towards goals directly linked with sustainable development and achievement of the MDGs; improvements in
inter-institutional coordination and increased public participation in environmental decisionmaking through
changes in the existing Technical Advisory Council; preparation of critical policies that address urban
environmental issues; and preparation of a water resource management law, an action program for establishing a
national policy relating to air pollution control, and decrees related to environmental licensing and solid waste
management.

The overarching objective of the proposed DPL Program for Sustainable Development (comprising of
three operations, SusDevDPL I, SusDevDPL II and SusDevDPL III) is to support the government of
Colombia's efforts to move towards achievement of the MDGs, particularly Goal 7 which seeks to
ensure environmental sustainability, Target 9 which aims to integrate the principles of sustainable
development into country policies and programs, Target 10 which aims to reduce the proportion of
people without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation, and Target 11 which aims
to achieve a significant improvement in the lives of the urban poor. Furthermore, by addressing urban
environmental issues affecting the most vulnerable populations (e.g., air pollution, untreated drinking
water), the program supports achievement of Goal 4 which seeks to reduce child mortality through
addressing principal threats to children under five (e.g., morbidity and mortality related to respiratory
illnesses and diarrheal diseases). Specifically, the program to be supported has the following objectives:
(a) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the SINA; and (b) integrating principles of sustainable
development into key sectors, with a particular emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable groups.

3. Financing

The first operation (SusDevDPL I) will provide US$150 million in financing, which will be disbursed in a single
tranche upon loan effectiveness. The subsequent operations will be based on the pace of the GOC to implement
the program.

The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector spending. Under Colombia's fiscal
regime, a development policy loan from the Bank substitutes financing from alternative, more expensive debt
sources and substitutes foreign for domestic lending. It does not increase aggregate fiscal resources available to
environment and other sectoral agencies since the fiscal envelope is defined by the binding primary fiscal surplus
targets.


4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Implementation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, through the Ministry of Environment,
Housing and Regional Development (MAVDT) and the Department of National Planning (DNP).

Since the program focuses on incorporating sustainable development in public policies, and the third operation
will be directly defined by results-based indicators, there will be an ongoing process of evaluating the actual
environmental and social impact of the proposed reforms. These impacts are expected to be positive, as they seek
to change behavior toward more environmentally sustainable use of resources. A Bank team will monitor actions
and review implementation progress of the DPL Program for Sustainable Development, with particular emphasis
on ascertaining whether the government of Colombia is carrying out the program with a focus on development
impact and due diligence to achieve sustainable development objectives in conformity with the legal agreements.
Bank staff will assess and monitor the adequacy of the institutional arrangements by which the government of
Colombia implements the actions indicated in the Policy Matrix, and verify fulfillment of program conditions and
compliance with legal covenants. Before proceeding with the Second DPL for Sustainable Development, the

Bank team will assess the government of Colombia's progress in implementing the expected actions for the
second operation.

5. Benefits and Risks

The DPL Program for Sustainable Development will improve environmental management, particularly in urban
areas. The program supports developing a results-based framework for planning and monitoring progress of the
SINA towards goals directly linked with sustainable development and achievement of the MDGs; improvements
in inter-institutional coordination and increased public participation in environmental decisionmaking; and
preparation of critical policies and laws related to air quality, water quality, solid waste management, and
environmental licensing. As explained below, the DPL Program also has clear implications for poverty
alleviation.

Several risks have been identified: (i) the overall political context, namely the internal conflict and violence
associated with illegal drug activity, which could negatively and further deteriorate the fiscal and macroeconomic
environment while aggravating the social situation, and the current debate about a second Presidential term, which
may affect the pace of the implementation of difficult reforms; (ii) fiscal pressures, which have lead to cuts in
spending related to environmental programs; (iii) the external economic and political shocks due to the regions
susceptibility to regional political or economic instability or further deterioration of the terms of trade; (iv)
coordination risks, given that significant multi-sectoral collaboration is needed to mainstream improved
environmental management into key sectors; and (v) institutional risks, given that there may be vested interests
(e.g., pollution-intensive industries, Regional Autonomous Corporations) in derailing the reform process.

Throughout the reform program, several actions are being undertaken to mitigate the above-mentioned risks.
These include: (i) complementary actions in other sectors to support the development of a stronger foundation for
peace and reforms to liberate resources to be used for the transition to a post-conflict Colombia; (ii) focused
efforts to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of investments in the SINA; (iii) complementary actions
supported by IMF, Bank, and IDB programs to mitigate the contagion effects from regional crises; (iv)
institutional strengthening of SINA institutions and the Department of National Planning to support consensus-
building with respect to sectoral within priority sectors; and (v) Bank support via a complementary Sustainable
Development investment project will support consultation, monitoring and evaluation of SINA efforts, and
targeted investments aimed at strengthening environmental management in priority sectors, and a communication
program to publicly disseminate environmental information.


6. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

The SusDevDPL will have a direct effect on poverty reduction, given that environmental degradation
disproportionately affects the poor and most vulnerable populations, and thus increases inequality.
Improvements in air and water quality, as well as hygiene improvements, in urban centers will lead to decreased
morbidity and mortality from diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory illnesses and other health effects, and allow for
reductions in avertive expenditures to address health risks. Increased accountability, transparency and improved
public participation will enable the most vulnerable groups to have a voice in environmental decisionmaking.

The policies and reforms supported by this operation are expected to have a positive effect on the country's
environment, by fostering improved environmental governance and urban environmental management. Since the
raison d'etre of the operation itself is to help the government to mainstream environment in a number of key
sectors, the operation's design is proactive with respect to internalizing environmental and social safeguards
concerns within the operation at the macro level. This occurs at distinct levels. At the sectoral level, three
process-based, policy Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAs) are called for in the context of the second
operation which seek to integrate environmental and social considerations in the broad context of sectoral policy
development. In addition to increased public participation in decisionmaking, the program places particular
emphasis in assuring improved transparency and accountability with respect to the governmental decision-making
processes.

7. Contact point:
      Juan Carlos Belausteguigoitia
      Task Team Leader
      1818 H Street, NW
      Washington, D.C. 20433
      Tel: (202) 473-8809
      Fax: (202) 522-3132
      Email: jbelausteguigoit@worldbank.org

8. For more information contact:
      The InfoShop
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
      Washington, D.C. 20433
      Telephone: (202) 458-5454
      Fax: (202) 522-1500
      Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

