Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB855 
Project Name 
CO Sustainable Dev Programmatic SAL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (35%); Sub-national government administration (35%); 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (30%)  
Project ID 
P081397 
Borrower(s) 
GOV OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 30, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 23, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Economic growth is crucial to reduce poverty. Economic growth is a function of increases in 
investment and productivity and reduction of inequality. Environmental degradation 
disproportionately affects poor people’s health and productivity and thus enhances inequality.  
The four highest environmental problems in terms of the cost of environmental degradation for 
Colombia amount to 5% of GDP.  These costs are mainly linked with increased mortality and 
morbidity and decreased productivity associated with the following environmental issues, 
namely (i) poor urban air quality, (ii) inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene, (iii) 
natural disasters, and (iv) the use of fuel wood in rural households which results in poor indoor 
air quality. 
 
The Government of Colombia (GOC) is giving high priority to achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals, including the goals to reduce poverty (MDG 1), decrease child mortality 
(MDG 4) and ensure environmental sustainability (MDG 7).  There is growing recognition 
among policymakers that an interdisciplinary approach to tackle the high and unequally-
distributed costs of environmental degradation through improved environmental governance, to 
establish clear rules of the game, is essential for achieving increases in investments and in 
productivity and thus in attaining sustained economic growth and thus poverty reduction.  The 
proposed loan is the first in an expected series of quick-disbursing loans aimed at supporting the 
GOC's interdisciplinary sustainable development program.    
Page  2
 
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The overarching objective of the proposed Sustainable Development Structural Adjustment 
Program (comprising of three operations, SusDevSAL I, SusDevSAL II and SusDevSAL III) is 
to support the Government’s efforts to move towards achievement of the Millennium 
Development Goals, particularly Goal Number 7, Target 9, which seeks to ensure environmental 
sustainability.  Specifically, the program to be supported by the adjustment program has the 
following objectives: (a) integrating the principles of sustainable development into country 
policies and programs in priority sectors, with a particular emphasis on protecting the most 
vulnerable groups; and (b) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the National 
Environmental Management System (SINA) in Colombia. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The first operation (SusDevSAL I) is expected to focus on the issuance of critical policies and 
decrees to (i) promote a focus on results in the institutions responsible for environmental 
management; (ii) improve inter-institutional coordination mechanisms and increase public 
participation in decision-making to promote greater transparency and accountability in 
governmental decision-making processes; (iii) initiate the preparation of critical policies and 
laws that embody sustainable development; and (iv) develop environmental tools to enable 
implementation of environmental management plans.  The second and third operations are 
expected to focus on the development and passage of sustainable policies, aimed at achieving 
indicators closely linked with MDG number 7. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?] 
 
The proposed operation does not have an environmental rating, since it is classified as a SAL.  
However, since the 
raison d’etre
 of the operation itself is to help the Colombian Government 
mainstream environment in a number of key sectors, the operation’s design is very proactive 
with respect to internalizing environmental and social safeguards concerns within the operation 
at the macro level.  This occurs at two distinct levels.  At the sectoral level, three process-based 
policy Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAs) are called for in the context of the second 
operation which seek to integrate environmental and social considerations in the broad context of 
sectoral policy development, including assuring that the most vulnerable segments of society are 
adequately represented.  In addition to increased public participation in decision making, the 
program places particular emphasis in assuring improved transparency and accountability with 
respect to governmental decision-making processes. 
Page  3
 
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
The proposed US$100 million SusDevSAL I is expected to be disbursed in a single tranche upon 
Board approval. The subsequent operations will be based on the pace of the GOC to implement 
its program.  It is estimated that these operations will be about 18 months apart.  Future amounts 
will be subject to the depth of the reforms.  
 
The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector spending.  Under 
Colombia's fiscal regime, an adjustment loan from the Bank substitutes financing from 
alternative, more expensive debt sources and substitutes foreign for domestic lending.  It does 
not increase aggregate fiscal resources available to environment and other sectoral agencies since 
the fiscal envelope is defined by the binding primary fiscal surplus targets. 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Kulsum Ahmed and Ernesto Sanchez-Triana 
Task Team Leaders 
World Bank  
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone Nos.:  
(202) 473-1130 
(202) 473-6952 
Fax No.:  
 
(202) 676-9373 
Email: 
 
  Kahmed4@worldbank.org 
Esancheztriana@worldbank.org 
 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily be 
included in the final project.
 
