Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15239
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3223-VE)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Venezuelan Bolivar (Bs)
US$ 1.00 = Bs 65.00 (May 1992)
Bs 1.00 = US$0.015
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GOV                    -Government of Venezuela
IDB                    -Inter-American Development Bank
JEXIM                  -Japan Export-Import Bank
LRMC                  -Long Run Marginal Cost
PE                     -Public Enterprise
PERL                  -Public Enterprise Reform Loan
SAL                   -Structural Adjustment Loan
AEROPOSTAL             -Linea Aeropostal Venezolana
ALCASA                 -Aluminio del Caroni, S.A.
BAUXIVEN              -Bauxita Venezolana, C.A.
CANTV                  -Compaiiia An6nima de Admistraci6n y Fomento
Eldctrico
CADAFE                 -Compafiia An6nima Nacional de Telefono
CARBOSUROESTE         -Carbones del Suroeste
CAVN                   -Compania An6nima Nacional de Navegaci6n
CORDIPLAN              -Oficina Central de Coordinaci6n y Planificaci6n
de la Presidencia de la Rep(iblica
CVG                   -Corporaci6n Venezolana de Guyana
EDELCA                -Electrificaci6n del Caroni
ENSAL                 -Empresa Nacional de Sal
FERROMINERA           -Ferrominera del Orinoco
FIV                   -Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
IMAU                   -Instituto Metropolitano de Aseo
lNAVI                 -Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda
INOS                  -Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
INP-                  -Instituto Nacional de Puertos
IPOSTEL               -Instituto Postal Telegrafico
PDVSA                 -Petr6leo de Venezuela, S.A.
SIDOR                 -Siderirgica del Orinoco, C.A.
VIASA                 -Venezolana Intemacional de Aviaci6n
VENALUM               -Industrias Venezolanas de Aluminio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offkc of the Director-General                               December 29, 1995
Opeations Evaluaton
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Venezuela
Public Enterprise Reform (L-3223-VE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report for the Venezuela Public Enterprise Reformn (PERL, Loan
3223-VE, approved in FY90 and closed on June 30, 1994), prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. This PCR does not contain Part II (the Borrower's contribution).
The Loan, in the amount of $350 million, was a three-tranche adjustment loan, one of a package of
seven operations (approved by the Board between June 1989 and December 1990) through which the Bank
committed $1.7 billion in support of Venezuela's program of structural adjustment. The loan included a debt
reduction component of $87.5 million. The objectives of PERL were to reduce the role of the public sector,
improve competition; rationalize pricing policy in public enterprises; and reduce transfers and promote
transparency in the relationship between the Central Government and public enterprises.
Achievement of these objectives was poor. There was some reduction in public employment and
fimancial transfers to PE (partially due to privatization), plus a moderate success in restructuring small
enterprises. Also, about 24 public enterprises were privatized, yielding about $2.5 billion in proceeds. But the
Government failed to adjust important public enterprise prices. The prices of gasoline and diesel relative to
their economic levels are lower now than at the time of Board approval and the Govermnent did not sufficiently
adjust the prices of electricity, telecommunications and water. Restructuring of major public enterprises was
also not achieved. Overall, only some modest results were achieved in ensuring a level playing field between
private and public enterprises, and the program did not significantly reduce the state's role in the productive
sectors. The Bank canceled the third tranche ($107.5 million) after a one year extension of the closing date
because the Government failed to meet the conditionality.
The PCR concludes that the PERL program was not successful because: (a) the lack of specificity in
the conditionality reduced the Bank's leverage; (b) the program was over-ambitious and unrealistic, and the
resistance to change was under-estimated; (c) the program emphasized restructuring instead of privatization;
(d) insufficient attention was given to restructuring sectors (e.g. electricity), rather than enterprises; and (e)
transferring responsibilities to local government was not accompanied with capacity building.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and the institutional development as negligible.
Sustainability of the privatization achievements, however, is rated as likely.
The PCR draws two major lessons: (a) that privatization is not sufficient if sector issues are not
addressed; these include: increasing competition, improving the price structure and limiting the time during
which a privatized company can remain a monopoly, and (b) that restructuring of sectors, not only of
enterprises, is needed to achieve increased efficiency.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widhout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION RlPORT
VENEZUELA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
PERL (LOAN 3223-VE)
Preface ............................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................... .                          iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE ............................................1
A.  Project Identity ............................................I
B.  Background ............................................I
C.  The Economic Reform Program ............................................2
D.  Public Enterprises in the Economy .............      ...............................3
(i)   The Public Enterprise Sector .............    ...............................3
(ii)  PE Issues ...........................................3
E. Loan Objectives                                 .4
F. Program Components and Results                          ..5
(i)   Price Adjustmentss 5
(ii)  Improvement of the Competitive Enviroment                .7
(iii)  Legal, Financial, and Institutional Framework
Governing Public Enterprises                     .8
(iv) Restructuring of Public Enterprises                  .9
(v) Privatization Program .14
(vi) Labor reduction and cost .15
G.  Evaluation and Conclusions ............................. 15
Bank Performance ............................. 18
Project Sustainability and Evaluation ............................. 20
PART II: (From the Government Perspective (not received)
PART IHI:
Statistical Tables
This report was prepared by Mr. Juan Luis Moreno V. (Long Term Consultant)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihhout World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3223-VE)
PREFACE
1. This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Public Enterprise Reform Loan of
Venezuela (Loan 3223-VE). The three tranche $350 million adjustment loan was approved on
June 1990, signed October 15, 1990 and became effective on December 1990. The first tranche
and debt reduction component were disbursed upon effectiveness, and the second tranche
disbursed in January 1992. The closing date was extended once by 12 months, from June 30,
1993 to June 30, 1994. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1994 and the $107.5 million third
tranche was canceled.
2. The PCR was prepared by the Mr. Juan Luis Moreno Villalaz, LA2PS under the supervision
of Mr. Robert Taylor, Task Manager, Private Sector Development Department (PSD). The PCR
was sent to the Government of Venezuela for comments.
3. Preparation of the PCR started in October 1994, and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report,
Supplementary Documents, the Supervision Reports, interviews with several high level members
of the Government of Venezuela that participated in the program, and a short evaluation mission
to Venezuela.
4. Staff Asignments:
(a) Through Board approval
Task Manager: Constance Bernard
Division Chief: John Page
Department Director: Ping-Cheung Loh
(b) Supervision through loan closing before July 1994
Task Manager: Robert Taylor
Division Chief: Krishna Challa/Gobind T. Nankani/Asif Faiz/
Stephen Ettinger
Department Director: Ping-Cheung Loh/Armeane Choksi/Rainer Steckhan
Supervision after July 1994
Task Manager: Robert Taylor
Division Chief: Robert Lacey
Department Director: Edilberto Segura



I



iii
VENEZUELA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
PERL (LOAN 3223-VE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Loan Objective and History
i.   The Venezuela Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) was a three-tranche $350 million
adjustment loan approved in June 1990. It was one of four adjustment loans approved by the Bank in
1989/90 to support the structural reform program initiated by the Perez Government. In addition to
the Bank PERL loan, JEXIM provided $300 million in co-financing, and the IDB approved a $300
million parallel PERL with identical conditionality.
ii.   The reform program objectives included: (a) adjustment of public enterprise (PE) prices to
economic levels; (b) reforms to enhance the role of the private sector and ensure that PEs operate in
a fully commercial manner; (c) reduce the subsidies to PEs and implement legal, financial, and
institutional reforms governing the relationship between PEs and the Government; (d) restructuring
major PEs, to improve their efficiency and productivity; and (e) a privatization program.
iii.   As a result of the stabilization and structural reform program initiated in 1989, the economy
rebounded strongly in 1991. During this period, significant reforms under the PERL were
accomplished, including the privatization of the telephone company (CANTV) and national airline
(VIASA), and continued progress in implementing phased price adjustments, particularly for
gasoline and diesel fuel. The approval of the PERL second tranche in December 1991 capped a year
of significant progress in the reform program.
iv.   After a coup attempt in early 1992, the Perez Government halted the reforms. Prices of
petroleum products and electricity were frozen. Privatization slowed considerably. Many of the main
reformers left the Government. After President Perez was forced out of office in mid-1993, there
were two interim Presidents in six months, and the reform program remained stalled. The new
Government, that started in early 1994, immediately faced considerable economic problems related
to bank failures, and did not pursue the PERL reforms.
v.   The PERL closing date was extended one year, to June 30, 1994. However, little progress
was made during that period, and the Loan was closed without disbursing the Bank's $107.5
million third tranche nor the JEXIM and IDB third tranche. At that time, there were four major
unfulfilled conditions: (a) macroeconomic policy was unsatisfactory; (b) fuel prices remained
frozen; (c) the electricity price adjustment program was not satisfactory; and (d) the steel
company, SIDOR, had failed to implement the agreed restructuring program.



iv
Implementation Experience.
vi.   The PERL program included five components: (a) price adjustments; (b) improvement of the
competitive environment; (c) legal, financial, and institutional reforms governing the relationship
between PEs and the Government; (d) restructuring of priority enterprises; and (e) a privatization
program.
vii.   The price adjustment program was not achieved. Petroleum prices, relative to their
economic levels, were lower at the closing date than at beginning of the program. The shipping and
port sectors were liberalized and restrictions on private sector participation were eliminated. Modest
progress was made in the legal framework governing the relationship between PEs and the
Government including: the transformation of the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV) into a
privatization-restructuring entity, and the enactment of the Privatization Law. The program succeed
in reducing operational subsidies to PEs, from $400 million to $75 million, and capital transfers from
$875 million to $356 million. PE employment was reduced by 52,000 (including privatization),
though with a severance cost of $420 million.
viii.   With respect to the restructuring programs, CANTV, was privatized, INP and CAVN were
liquidated, and the port and shipping sectors were opened to the private sector. CADAFE, the
electrical enterprise, started regional companies. INOS, the water enterprise, was liquidated, and
regional firms with less employees were established. The restructuring of SIDOR, the steel company,
failed to improve efficiency or promote privatization. More progress was made on the smaller
entities, including IPOSTEL (postal service), AEROPOSTEL (domestic airline), INAVI (public
housing), IMAU (garbage collection), ENSAL (salt mines and refineries).
Evaluating the Experience
ix.   On balance, the PERL had mixed results. Important objectives of the loan, such as price
adjustment, restructuring, improving private sector participation by creating a level playing field, and
transforming the legal environment governing public enterprises, were not implemented as envisaged
in the original program. On the other hand, reducing PE financial transfers and employment, and in
particular, the privatization program, were very successful.
x.   The price adjustment program failed for political reasons. To eliminate the fuel-price subsidy
would exclude part of the population (including the middle class) from what they perceive as their
share of the national oil income. Increasing the price of oil is therefore considered as a tax,
transferring income from consumers to the Government. This was resisted given the lack of trust in
the Government due to past corruption and inefficiency.
xi.    Restructuring did not work in the priority PEs. It was only successful when limited to
financial restructuring or work force reductions as part ofprivatization or liquidation. Otherwise, it
failed to improve the finances, productivity, or efficiency of the public enterprises involved.
Somewhat better results, particularly in employment reduction, were obtained in restructuring the
smaller PEs. Regionalization of PEs was not accompanied with capacity building. The strategy of
enterprise reform rather than sector reform left some important sector issues unresolved.
xii.   In retrospect, the PERL supported a parallel agenda, a reform process. This was
successful in reducing the size of government via liquidation, and implementing a large
privatization program, that brought proceeds of $2.3 billion in less than 2 years. The success of



v
these measures attest to the ownership of the program by the Perez Government, which was
fuirther demonstrated by its efforts to continue the program, even when confronting negative
political conditions. One can infer that the commitmnent, support and coordination by the
institutions involved was necessary to achieve so much in the little time when the program
effectively functioned.






I
VENEZUELA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
PERL (LOAN 3223-VE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name           Public Enterprise Reform
Loan Number   3223-VE
RVP Unit       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country        Venezuela
Type of Loan   Adjustment
B. Background
1.   The Venezuela Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) was a three-tranche $350 million
adjustment loan approved in June 1990. It was one of four adjustment loans approved by the Bank in
1989/90 to support the reform program initiated by the Perez Government, which took office in
February 1989. The Structural Adjustment Loan and the Trade Policy Reform Loan were approved
in May 1989 and supported the first phase of the structural reform program, including liberalization
of trade, exchange rates, and most prices. In June 1990, the Board approved the $300 million
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and the $350 million PERL to support further reforms. In addition
to the $350 million PERL approved by the Bank, JEXIM provided $300 million in co-financing for
the PERL, and the IDB approved a $300 million parallel PERL with identical conditionality.
2.   The Loan was signed October 15, 1990. The $70 million first tranche and $87.5 million debt
reduction component were disbursed in December 1990 upon effectiveness. The $85.0 million
second tranche was approved in December 1991 upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions and
disbursed in January 1992. The closing date of the Loan was extended by 12 months until June 30,
1994. The Loan closed on June 30, 1994 and the remaining undisbursed $107.5 million third tranche
was canceled.
3.   The initial success, and subsequent failure, of the PERL mirrored the overall economic
situation in Venezuela. As a result of the stabilization and structural reform program initiated in
1989, the economy rebounded strongly in 1991, after initially contracting by 7.8% in 1989, and a
6.9% recovery in 1990. GDP grew by 10.1% in 1991, inflation fell from 84% in 1989 to 34% in
1991, and foreign investment increased sharply, reaching roughly $ 4 billion in 1991. During this
period, significant reforms under the PERL were accomplished, including the privatization of the
telephone company (CANTV) and national airline (VIASA), and continued progress in
implementing phased price adjustments, particularly for gasoline and diesel fuel. The approval of
the PERL second tranche in December 1991 capped a year of significant progress in the reform
program.



2
4.   After the first coup attempt in February 1992, the President shifted his priority toward
negotiating with political groups for support. A price was paid with respect to the liberalization
program in general and the PERL in particular, in terms of delaying decisions and suspending or
reducing the legislative program. The personal difficulties of the President, accused of
improprieties, increased and ended with his removal in mid-1993. In a period of less than a year,
four persons were president. As a result of the political crisis, the entire reform effort collapsed in
1992 and virtually no progress was made in 1993, in spite of some efforts to maintain the program.
Prices of petroleum products and electricity were frozen. Privatization slowed considerably and
many of the main reformers left the Government. After President Perez was forced out of office in
mid-1993, there were two interim Presidents in six months. The new Government that started in
early 1994 faced considerable economic problems related to banks failures, and did not continue the
reforms initiated under the PERL.
5. The PERL closing date was extended in mid-1993 by 12 months, to June 30, 1994. However,
little progress was made during that period. The Loan closed on June 30,1994 and the
undisbursed $107.5 million third tranche was canceled. The JEXIM in turn canceled their
cofinancing of the third tranche and the IDB canceled the third tranche of its parallel PERL. At the
time of loan closing, there were several unfulfilled third tranche conditions, principally: (a) the
macroeconomic policy framework was unsatisfactory as a result of the re-introduction of foreign
exchange and price controls, and the large fiscal deficit, due in part to government support for the
banking crisis; (b) fuel prices remained frozen and no plan was in place for any unfreezing or
increases; (c) the electricity price adjustment program was not satisfactorily correcting distortions
between residential and industrial/commercial rates; and (d) SIDOR the steel company, had failed
to implement the agreed restructuring program or achieve the 1992-93 performance targets.
C. The Economic Reform Program
6. Venezuela's economic policy, up to the end of 1980's, followed an import substitution strategy,
involving multiple exchange :-ates, administered and rationed allocation of foreign exchange, import
prohibitions and licenses, high ad-valorem and specific tariffs, tariff exoneration and export
subsidies. This resulted in high levels of effective protection and restrictions that distorted the price
system, had an anti-export bias, and produced a misallocation of resources. In addition, the
Government intervened in economic activities through regulations, subsidies, price controls and the
creation of a large public enterprise sector. This led to rigidities, dependency on oil exports, a low
rate of growth, internal and external imbalances, and a pattern of instability followed by booms,
related to oil price changes.
7. From February 1989, the incoming Perez Government implemented a stabilization and
structural reform program that involved: a) replacing the administered multiple exchange rate system
with a unified market-determined exchange rate; b) rationalizing and liberalizing the trade regime,
by eliminating exonerations, reducing the coverage of quantitative restriction, and setting a
maximum tariff of 80%, with further reductions to follow; c) allowing most interest rates to be
market determined; d) increasing the price of petroleum products in the domestic market; e)
dismantling most of the domestic price controls; and f) curtailing fiscal expenditures.
8.   The economic program improved the internal and external imbalances. Also, the significant
improvement of both public finances and the balance of payments, together with a tight monetary
policy, led to a stabilization of inflation and exchange rates. The Government's medium-term policy



3
was to strengthen the market-friendly environment, revise the role of the State and increase the
efficiency of public enterprises. These measures were aimed at increasing productivity and growth.
D. Public Enterprises in the Economy
9.   The Public Enterprise Sector. Public enterprises dominated many sectors, particularly large-
scale capital-intensive industry, such as petroleum, mining, steel, and aluminum. This was the result
of a strategy initiated in the mid-1970s with the nationalization of the oil and iron ore industries,
followed by heavy public investment. This led to a large public sector, with public enterprises in: (a)
the financial sector (commercial and development banks, insurance companies, specialized credit
agencies); (b) the petroleum sector (a holding company - PDVSA - with seven subsidiaries); (c)
basic industries in the Guyana region - the Corporacion Venezolana de Guyana (CVG); (d) 15 major
public enterprises involved in the provision of public services (e.g. electricity, water, telephone,
shipping and ports); and (e) 120 smaller enterprises operating commercially in a variety of activities
(e.g., light manufacturing, agro-industry, tourism).
10.   The state-owned petroleum sector included petroleum production, natural gas, petroleum
distribution, fertilizers, and petrochemicals. This sector dominated the economy, with oil
accounting for more than 73% of exports in 1989 and 70% of fiscal revenue.
11.   The Guyana-based CVG companies included basic industries such as steel (SIDOR);
aluminum (VENALUM and ALCASA); iron, bauxite and coal mining (FERROMINERA,
BAUXIVEN, and CARBOSUROESTE); hydropower (EDELCA); and others. In the 1980s, the
development strategy for these companies focused on self-sufficiency and expansion, with an
ambitious investment program financed with external debt (serviced by the companies in Bolivares
at a fixed exchange rate). The companies operated behind protective tariff barriers and with low
levels of productivity. Trade and exchange rate liberalization in 1989 had dramatic consequences on
the companies. First, they were exposed to import competition in the domestic market. Second, their
external debt burden (the Bolivar equivalent) increased substantially with devaluation. As well, the
Government virtually cut off further equity investment and access to further government-guaranteed
debt. As a result of these changes in the external policy environment, the CVG companies were
faced with the challenge of shifting to an outward-oriented strategy, focusing on profitability (not
expansion) and relying on private sources for investment financing.
12.   The group of state-owned companies providing public services (electricity, telephone, water
ports, etc.) had been subject to Government intervention to achieve social and political objectives.
These companies were characterized by extremely low prices relative to costs, inadequate salaries,
substantial over employment, and poor accounting/billing systems. Moreover, quality of service was
generally poor, which impeded productivity, export growth, and the ability of the economy to
respond to the new economic incentives. The reform program was aimed at adjusting prices to
economic levels, improving company efficiency, professionalizing hiring practices, and improving
quality of service for consumers.
13.   The last group of enterprises included many small companies operating in commercial
competitive sectors. Many began in the private sector, but were taken over by previous governments,
often to avoid closure and job losses.
14.   PE Issues. The policy and institutional framework governing the operation of public
enterprises did not generate an efficient allocation nor use of resources. Important issues include:



4
*  Inadequate pricing policies that subsidized local consumption. Domestic prices were a
fraction of the economic cost for both tradables (export opportunity cost) and non-
tradables (long-run marginal cost). As well, maintenance of low prices and cross-
subsidies distorted relative prices.
*  Public enterprises were protected from competition through various policies which
excluded the participation of private finns in these sectors. They also had privileged
access to foreign exchange and financial resources.
*  These firms were a fiscal burden, accounting for 14% of Government outlays, or 3.4% of
GDP. As well, they had large external govemment-guaranteed debt (roughly $7.5 billion
at end- 1989). With exchange rate and trade liberalization, many were unable to service
their external debt, which was either assumed or paid by the Government.
*  The performance of PEs was unsatisfactory. Productivity of resources used was low. In
the late 1980s, PEs accounted for 24% of national investment, yet their value added
averaged only 6.2% of GDP. The incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) from
petroleum enterprises was 60, compared with 10 for the overall economy. These
enterprises showed little or no profitability, with an average return on assets of less than
1%. Labor productivity in PEs had declined by 2.7% annually during the 1980s.
E. Loan Objectives
15.   The Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) was aimed at supporting institutional and policy
reforms directed at changing the role of the public sector in the economy. The main goals of the
program were to: create an environment in which PEs were subject to market forces; provide
appropriate regulation to natural monopolies; make the non-petroleum PE sector a positive
contributor to government finances; and maximize opportunities for investment and production for
the private sector.
16.   The PERL was a broad adjustment operation with a number of specific objectives, including
to:
*  reduce the scope of the public sector in the economy through fiscal restraint,
deregulation, and privatization of selected public enterprises;
*  maintain a level playing field by minimizing policies or practices which discriminated
between public and private enterprises and restricted competition;
*  substantially reduce government transfers to PEs to improve public finances;
*  minimize PE monopoly powers and establish regulatory mechanisms as needed;
*  improve the efficiency and quality of public services provided by PEs, particularly those
services deemed critical for growth of the productive sectors;



5
*  enhance the efficiency of resource use by allowing PEs to adjust their prices to economic
levels (i.e. tradable goods prices at export opportunity cost and non-tradable goods prices
at economic opportunity cost);
* redefine the legal and institutional framework governing PEs to promote a more
transparent and efficient financial relationship between the Government and PEs;
* change the role of the Fondo de Inversiones (FIV), a government-owned financial
holding company which had financed the development of PEs with oil revenue from
1974-89, and reorganize CVG (the industrial holding company);
*  restructure priority enterprises; and
*  implement a privatization program
F. Program Components and Results
17.   The program supported by the PERL included five components: (a) price adjustments; (b)
improvement of the competitive environment; (c) legal, financial, and institutional reforms
governing the relationship between PEs and the Government; (d) restructuring of priority enterprises,
(9 major PEs plus 5 other unspecified ones); and (e) a privatization program. Outlined below is a
description of each component, including the reforms accomplished under the PERL.
18.   Overall Results. The price adjustment program was not done; in some cases prices relative
to their economic level are worse at present (March 1995) than at the time the loan was approved.
This was the most significant failure of the PERL. With respect to restructuring the results were
mixed. CANTV, the telephone company was privatized, INP and CAVN were liquidated, and the
port and sea transport sectors were opened to the private sector without restrictions. INOS, the water
enterprise, was liquidated; regional firms, with less employees, were established but have not been
able to achieve financial independence. The restructuring of SIDOR, the steel company, failed to
improve efficiency or promote privatization. A complete success was the privatization program,
from a modest conditionality of $150 million brought to point of sale, to actual sales of $2.3 billion
in public assets. Also another accomplishment was the reduction of government employment by
52,000 and the reduction of operational subsidies to PEs from $400 million to $75 million, and
investment subsidies from $875 million to $356 million. In the other components of the program the
results were modest. Only in the port and shipping sector did the Government eliminate restrictions
on private sector participation. In the institutional and legal public sector enviromnent, FIV was
transformed and its functions were redefined, redirecting its primary efforts towards privatization
and restructuring of government firms.
Price Adjustments
19.   Under the structural adjustment program (supported by the earlier SAL), price controls were
eliminated for most goods and services. For the remaining goods/services (e.g. gasoline, electricity,
telephone), the Government initiated a program of phased price adjustments with the medium-term
objective of adjusting prices to full economic levels. In tradables (e.g. petroleum products,
fertilizers), the objective was to adjust prices to export opportunity cost, whereas in public services,
the objective was to progressively adjust prices to long-run marginal cost and correct distortions in



6
the tariff structure (e.g. between residential and commercial users). The PERL was designed to
support the completion of the Government's price liberalization and adjustment program, focusing
particularly on: fuel, fertilizer, electricity, telephone, water, and natural gas prices.
20.   In domestic petroleum products, fuel prices were virtually the lowest in the world when the
Perez Govemment took office in 1989. Following phased price adjustments, domeE-ic fuel prices
reached 40% of export opportunity cost by mid-1990 (in accordance with the SAL target). The PERL
objective was for oil prices to reach full export opportunity cost by January 1993 (i.e. 30 months
following loan approval). The rationale was economic, not fiscal, based on the premise that if
Venezuela's petroleum sector were deregulated and competitive, ex-refinery prices would
automatically reflect export opportunity cost, and consumer prices would be set at ex-refinery prices,
plus transport/marketing costs, plus retail taxes.
21.   There was progress on this issue until February 1992. A program of monthly price increases
was adopted and maintained until the coup attempt in February 1992. Afterward, domestic
petroleum product prices were frozen and have remained frozen since (as of March 1995). Given
domestic inflation, the ratio of ex-refinery prices to export opportunity cost fell to less than 20% for
gasoline and diesel by February 1994, in spite of the decrease in international petroleum prices,
below the ratio when the PERL was approved in June 1990.
22.   In electricity, the program objectives were also not achieved. Under the PERL, the
Govemment agreed to undertake a study on long-run marginal costs (LRMC) and then implement a
program to adjust rates to LRMC. The preliminary phase of the LRMC study was completed in mid-
1991. The study showed substantial distortions and cross-subsidies in the tariff structure between
residential rates (far below LRMC) and commercial/industrial rates (above LRMC), particularly in
Caracas, where residential rates were less than 40% of LRMC and commercial rates were more than
200% of LRMC.
23.   The Government initially proposed to the Bank a 4-year program of phased price
adjustments to be implemented from 1992-95 inclusive, but the February 1992 coup attempt derailed
this plan. Prices were subsequently frozen for six months. A new three-year program was eventually
implemented, starting in November 1992, but it did not adequately correct the major distortions in
the tariff structure, given that it was based on the overall financial needs of the companies, rather
than on economic efficiency objectives.
24.   In telecommunications, the PERL objective was similar - to carry out a study on long-run
marginal costs, followed by a phased program of price adjustments. In fact, the proposed study was
not carried out because the Government subsequently decided to privatize the state-owned
telecommunication company (CANTV), and a new tariff structure and adjustment program were
incorporated in the privatization plan. To facilitate successful privatization, significant telephone
rate increases were implemented in July 1991 prior to privatization, and again in January 1992, when
the privatized operator took over the company. Under the concession contract with the privatized
operator, rates were grouped into three baskets, to be regulated on a price cap basis, with full
inflation indexing until 1996, followed by partial indexing until 2001. Phased rebalancing of local
and international rates would commence in 1994 to progressively remove the cross-subsidy from
international to local rates.
25.   In water, rates were far below marginal costs, particularly for residential users where rates
had not been increased since 1981. The Government's new financial and rate policy for the water



7
supply and sewerage sector was aimed at making the newly-established local/regional public
enterprises financially self-sufficient, i.e., with revenue from tariffs sufficient to meet all
administrative, maintenance, and operating cost, debt service requirements, and allow an adequate
contribution to financing new investment. In October 1991 the Government increased industrial and
commercial tariffs, but not residential tariffs. Consequently, the water companies continued to
require subsidies. Furthermore, low residential rates were a major factor behind the Government's
unsuccessful attempt in 1992 to privatize the Caracas water system.
26.   In tradables, an important component of the PERL price adjustment program was the
elimination of all subsidies for fertilizer products and the adjustment of prices to export opportunity
cost. Under the PERL, subsidies were to be phased out by July 1993. This was essentially
accomplished with the exception of phosphate rock (which accounted for only 10% of fertilizer
consumption) where subsidies were to be eliminated over a longer period. As well, imports were
liberalized, the Government monopoly on pa'm oil was canceled, and price regulations on imported
and privately-distributed fertilizer were elii-inated.
27.   In CVG companies the PERL sought to ensure that all transfer pricing between CVG
companies (e.g. iron ore to be used for steel production) was on a fully commercial and economic
basis. During the 1980s, there were extensive cross-subsidies between CVG companies through
transfer pricing. These subsidies were eliminated as part of the structural reform and liberalization
program. According to CVG officials, all preferential pricing for CVG affiliates was eliminated and
all companies paid fully commercial prices for inputs from other CVG companies.
Improvement of the Competitive Environment
28.   There were many restrictions in Venezuelan legislation that limited competition and private
sector activity. In some cases (e.g. petroleum, iron ore), the Constitution reserved these areas for the
public sector. In addition, foreign investment was prohibited in certain public utilities, insurance, the
financial sector, domestic transportation, and consulting services, and allowed only limited minority
shareholdings in domestic trade, administration of public concessions, export services, basic
industries, garbage collection and the postal system. In other sectors (e.g. shipping), public
enterprises had preferential rights.
29.   Under the SAL and Trade Reform Loans, the Government enacted a number of measures to
stimulate competition and private investment, including: eliminating import controls; simplifying the
operating environment for the private sector; creating a debt-equity swap mechanism; opening
sectors to foreign investors (with the exception of banking, Spanish language newspapers and
restriction on the petroleum sector); and liberalizing restrictions on remittance of profits and
reinvestment. Under the PERL, the Government's objectives were to ensure a "level playing field"
between private and public enterprises, reduce the state's role in the productive sectors (excluding
petroleum) and limit government's role to investment in social and economic infrastructure.
30.   The results in this area were modest. The most significant reforms were enacted in the
shipping sector, where the Government eliminated prior restrictions on competition and on the use
by Venezuelan importers/exporters of private and foreign shipping companies. As a result of these
reforms, shipping costs dropped substantially, and there was much greater use of private and foreign
shipping companies. Apart from shipping, a new Ports Law was enacted which inter alia allowed
private participation in the sector. As well, the Government monopoly on telecommunications and
postal services was canceled. However, in other sectors dominated by public enterprises (e.g.



8
petroleum, electricity), no significant new legislation was enacted to reduce the role of the
government or otherwise promote competition and private sector participation. Even though this was
not a loan conditionality, some reforms were expected.
Legal, Financial, and Institutional Framework Governing Public Enterprises
31.   Legal, regulatory and administrative changes implemented during the prior two decades
resulted in unclear and diffuse accountability relationships between PEs and the Government, with
little effective Government control over PEs. This undermined macroeconomic and sectoral policy-
making, and caused substantial delays in decision-making. As well, PEs were a heavy drain on
government finances, accounting for 70% of public investment. During the 1980s, they received
substantial Government support through budgetary transfers, through loans and equity contributions
from the FIV (established in 1974 to invest windfall oil revenue) and through guaranteed borrowing.
Many PE investment projects were approved without economic justification or adequate integration
into the Government's overall investment plan.
32.   Under the PERL, the Government's medium-term objective was to substantially reduce
transfers to PEs. It was recognized, however, that in the short term, some financial support would be
required for companies being restructured or privatized, to cover one-time costs such as severance
payments, unfunded pension liabilities, and settlement of guaranteed debts to third parties. As well,
some transfers may continue to be necessary for public policy reasons (e.g. lifeline rates for public
services) and, accordingly, these transfers were to be incorporated in performance agreements signed
with the Government. Based on these considerations, the PERL objective was to phase out operating
transfers to PEs over a three-year period for those PEs not covered by restructuring programs or
performance agreements.
33.   This objective was essentially achieved. Operating transfers to PEs were sharply reduced
from $400 million in 1990 to $75 million in 1993 (excluding one-time severance costs associated
with restructuring or privatization), with the latter primarily for covering interest charges on the
subway external debt (not part of the PER). Capital transfers for investment dropped from $875
million in 1990 to $356 million in 1993, primarily for the metro, the new regional water companies,
and the public housing company.
34.   While direct current transfers were significantly reduced, the Government (through the FIV)
provided financial support for one-time restructuring costs (principally severance pay) consistent
with the PERL objectives. Restructuring agreements ("convenios de reestructuraci6n") were signed
with 12 public enterprises, setting out the restructuring measures to be undertaken by the companies
and the amount of financial support to be provided by the FIV. The FIV's advances to finance
severance pay and settlement of debts (amounting to about $800 million from 1991-94) were to be
repaid from proceeds of privatization or budgetary reimbursements.
35.   One area that was inconsistent with the PERL objective was the transfer of the FIV's shares
in CVG companies to the CVG holding company. During the 1980s, the FIV had become the
majority shareholder in many CVG companies through equity injections and capitalization of
outstanding loans. In 1990, the Government issued a decree authorizing the transfer of the FIV's
shares to CVG. However, while CVG took ownership of the shares, no money was actually
transferred to FIV. This was effectively a recapitalization of CVG. Moreover, it was not
accompanied by any restructuring of CVG or its companies to improve efficiency and profitability.



9
36.   With respect to the legal framework governing public enterprises, two significant new laws
were enacted. In 1991, a new FIV Law was enacted which redefined its functions, withdrawing it
from direct lending and investment, and redirecting its primary efforts towards privatization and
restructuring of government firms. Second, a Privatization Law was enacted in 1992, formalizing
the legislative and administrative arrangements for the privatization program and specifying how the
proceeds would be allocated.
Restructuring of Public Enterprises
37.   An important component of the PERL program was restructuring of public enterprises to
improve efficiency or reorganize the firm as a first step toward privatization. The PERL focused on
restructuring six priority PEs, including: CANTV (telecom); CADAFE (electricity); INOS (water);
INP (ports); SIDOR (steel); and CAVN (shipping). These companies were targeted due to their
importance to overall economic growth and productivity and/or the extent of their financial
problems. The Government established an inter-ministerial Restructuring Commission (with
CORDIPLAN as the Executive Secretariat) to oversee the design and implementation of the
restructuring programs. Studies were undertaken to identify the major issues and develop detailed
restructuring programs, approved by the Restructuring Commission, and restructuring agreements
were signed with the FIV, specifying the short-term financial support to be provided by the FIV (e.g.
severance pay, retraining, payment of arrears, studies) and the restructuring measures to be
undertaken by the companies. The companies pledged to the FIV sufficient marketable assets to
cover the FIV advance, and the FIV was to be repaid from the subsequent proceeds of privatization
or sale of surplus assets.
38.   This component had mixed results. Restructuring of the major enterprises was only
successful where it was limited to financial restructuring or work force reductions as part of
privatization or liquidation. The economic benefits were greatest when the reforms were
accompanied by sector liberalization. Otherwise, restructuring efforts aimed at rehabilitating the firm
and improving efficiency and performance were unsuccessful. The restructuring of the five
additional PEs was more successful, with important reductions in personnel and, some cases,
redefining the function and improving the performance of the PE. These public enterprises were
IPOSTEL (postal service), AEROPOSTAL (domestic airline), INAVI (public housing), IMAU
(garbage collection), and ENSAL (salt mines and refineries). The results of the restructuring PE
program are summarized below.
39.   CANTV (telecommunication). CANTV was a government-owned company with a national
monopoly on all telecommunication services. There were many deficiencies in the company. Unmet
demand for new telephones exceeded one million customers (an 8-year waiting period on average).
Rates were very low, particularly for local service. Network quality was low, with extensive
congestion and low call completion rates. CANTV had excessive staffing and low productivity.
40.   When the PERL was approved, the objective of the Loan was to restructure the company to
operate commercially and efficiently. But, in late 1990, the Government adopted a more ambitious
plan to privatize the company to an experienced international operator, in order to enable rapid
expansion and service improvement. During 1991, the Government, with external advisers,
developed a detailed privatization plan, including a new tariff structure and regulatory framework.
The process culminated with the sale to an international consortium of a control block of shares



10
(40% of common shares, but with majority voting on the Board of Directors). The control block was
sold for $1.9 billion. A further 11% of shares were sold to CANTV employees.
41.   Under the concession contract, the privatized operator was granted an exclusive monopoly
on basic local and long distance services for a 9-year period; in exchange, the operator was required
to install 3.6 million new and replacement lines and improve quality of service (targets for call
completion, etc. were included in the contract). Competition was permitted in non-basic services
(e.g. data transmission, value-added). Tariffs were to be adjusted quarterly according to a price cap
formula (inflation less a productivity factor), with a phased rebalancing of tariffs from years 4-9 to
eliminate distortions between local and long distance rates. A new Tele-communications Law was
prepared, but it stalled in Congress. To enable a successful privatization, the Government issued a
series of decrees which, inter alia, established a new telecom regulatory agency (CONATEL).
42.   The privatization of CANTV represented the most important success of the PERL program.
The preparation and execution of the transaction was praised by investors for its thoroughness,
professionalism and transparency. In the first two years following privatization, the privatized
CANTV met or exceeded its targets for service expansion and improvement. In 1992-93, CANTV
invested $1.1 billion and installed 850,000 new or replacement lines (a 50% increase in the installed
network). The company added more than 450,000 new clients. As well, CONATEL approved
licenses for more than 30 other independent operators providing non-basic services, and these
operators invested a further $370 million in 1992-93.
43.   Some problems, however, have emerged for the privatized CANTV, including: the failure by
the Government to pay more than $100 million in government bills; delays in implementing the
quarterly rate adjustments in accordance with the formula in the concession contract; and the
introduction in mid-1994, of foreign exchange controls which have severely hampered CANTV's
ability to service its external debt and finance its investment program (and hence meet its service
obligations).
44.   INP (Ports). The national ports agency (INP) operated 11 public ports located on the North
Coast and in Lake Maracaibo. These ports handled general cargo, containerized cargo, and some
bulk cargo. Operations of the public ports had long been regarded as costly and very inefficient, and
hence a major impediment to exports. The agency had more than 11,000 employees. Service was so
poor that the international shipping conferences applied various cargo surcharges for
congestion/inefficiency in INP ports, amounting to roughly $30-50 million annually.
45.   In 1991, the Government decided to liquidate the INP, privatize cargo handling, and set up
new regional port authorities to administer the ports. All 11,000 INP workers were laid off and
cargo handling/stevedoring activities were transferred to the private sector. In accordance with the
collective contracts, employees received severance pay equivalent to one month's pay for year of
service. The total cost was roughly $200 million, or $18,000 per employee.
46.   As a result of these measures, productivity immediately doubled, resulting in a substantial
reduction in shipping costs. The responsibility for port administration and maintenance was
transferred to the new regional port authorities. Some of the regional authorities, with technical
assistance from the national government, launched initiatives to privatize specific terminal
operations.



I1
47.   CADAFE (electricity). CADAFE is responsible for electricity distribution for most of the
country, excluding a few major cities (e.g. Caracas). During the 1970s and 1980s, its mandate was to
provide electricity throughout the country, with little economic or financial consideration. It
provided service to the majority of medium and smaller sized cities, as well as towns and villages,
with large geographical dispersion, and low volume average usage. Yet, the company had a highly
centralized organizational structure and administration, with rigid procedures, dominant labor
unions, and a lack of coordination with other entities operating in the power sector.
48.   The Government's restructuring plan for CADAFE was aimed at decentralizing and
regionalizing its operations. The program involved reorganizing CADAFE into a holding company
with four regional distribution companies, a generation company (comprising CADAFE's thermal
plant and its hydro facility which was under construction), a transmission company, and one or more
companies providing non-power related services. It was expected that CADAFE's holding company
would be phased out and that the regional distribution companies would be established with full
autonomy, as a first step towards privatization.
49.   Results were disappointing. The regional companies were established, but were not granted
autonomy from the holding company in operations and investment. Despite regionalization of
distribution, CADAFE maintained a large corporate head office. And the financial situation of the
company deteriorated, as it accumulated large arrears with other PEs. Most importantly, the
restructuring of CADAFE was not accompanied by broader sectoral reform or restructuring. The
Government launched some initiatives in 1991 to consider sector reform, but these efforts were
largely unsuccessful.
50.   INOS (water). INOS, the national agency responsible for providing water and sewerage
services in the country's urban areas, was facing a severe crisis by 1989, and was unable to
adequately operate and maintain the water supply systems under its responsibilities. Service was
inefficient and costly; water losses and billing arrears were unacceptably high; the company was
heavily overstaffed and politicized. The firm was incurring substantial operating losses, in fact it
could not cover its wage bill.
51.   The restructuring of INOS, as with the ports, was aimed at liquidating the national agency,
establishing new autonomous and financially self sufficient regional water companies, and
privatizing operations through concession agreements with private operators. A small, new agency
would be responsible for sectoral policy, normative and regulatory functions, sector-wide
monitoring, and providing technical assistance and training to the operating entities. In the transition
period, the entity was also to have limited engineering/project management functions for major
ongoing capital projects. Responsibility for managing and operating water supply and sewerage
systems was expected to be transferred to municipal, state, or regional enterprises (publicly or
privately operated). The new operating companies would be responsible for negotiating their labor
contracts. INOS employees would receive severance pay as a result of the liquidation of the national
agency. The restructuring plan also called for major water tariff adjustments.
52.   Results were mixed in this sector. The national agency (INOS) was liquidated and new
regional water companies were established. The new institutions have 3,408 employees versus
14,388 of INOS, a substantial reduction. A new national agency (Hidroven) was established to carry
out policy and regulatory functions. Nevertheless, residential tariffs remained very low relative to
economic cost, and no adequate regulatory framework was put in place for the sector. The
Government launched a major effort in 1991/92 to privatize the Caracas water/sewerage services, but



12
in the end, there were no bidders at the public tender. Low residential tariffs, lack of reassurances
over private property rights on the installations, and an unclear regulatory framework were
considered to be major factors in the reluctance of companies to bid for the water company.
53.   SIDOR (Steel). With abundant energy and iron ore, Venezuela should be a world class
competitor in steel. The country invested more than $3 billion in SIDOR during the 1970s and 1980s.
But SIDOR focused its efforts in producing for a highly-protected domestic market. Faced with
trade and exchange rate liberalization in 1989, the company needed to alter its product mix,
formulate a new marketing strategy, and improve operations to ensure competitiveness and financial
viability. In 1990, SIDOR closed four obsolete mills and began a phased program to reduce its work
force by 4,000 employees (from 18,000 to 14,000).
54.   In October 1991, the Cabinet approved a restructuring program involving: cost/efficiency
improvements in SIDOR's flat product operations (with specific targets); phased privatization of its
non-flat operations (the unfinished seamless pipe mill and the rod and bar mills); a minimal
investment program; and assumption by the Government of $900 million of SIDOR's $1.5 billion in
external debt. The restructuring program included specific performance improvement targets to be
achieved in the following two years (1992-93).
55.   The debt assumption did substantially improve SIDOR's financial situation, but the company
did not achieve the operating and technical performance targets set out in the restructuring program,
as outlined below:
SIDOR Performance 1992-1993
1993
Target       Actual    Target   Actual
Reduction in Unit
Product Cost (Constant Bs)          11%         6.6%       15%       6%
Labor Productivity (tones/man hour)  200         189       300       194
Sales (million tones)               2.4         2.1        2.6       2.1
Inventories (% of sales)            <25%        ----       <20%      36%
Capacity Utilization                >70%        75%        <80%      71%
Sales Delivery (% on time)          >80%        ----       >90%      60%
56.   There was also little progress in the privatization of the non-flat operations. A preliminary
agreement was completed in 1992 with a majority-private consortium to complete and operate the
unfinished seamless pipe mill. However, the deal subsequently fell through and no other buyer has
been found. In early 1994 SIDOR published an ad seeking interest in a strategic association to
operate the rod and bar mills, but as of March 1995, no activities or operations had been privatized.



13
57.   CAVN (shipping). Prior to sector liberalization, importers/exporters were faced with
numerous restrictions on the use of private and foreign shipping companies. The state-owned
shipping company (CAVN) operated with substantial protection, yet was very inefficient, with low
productivity and an obsolete fleet. In this particular case, the Government combined restructuring
with sector reform and liberalization. In 1990/91, the Ministry of Transport eliminated many of the
prior restrictions on shippers, including those pertaining to transshipment, opening new routes and
route extensions, and the obligation to use CAVN for all shipments financed through letters of credit.
As well, the Government signed a series of bilateral agreements with several countries to eliminate
the "cargo reserve requirement", thereby allowing shippers freedom of choice in selecting a carrier.
58.   A restructuring program was approved for CAVN, involving: the sale of three ships; a 15%
work force reduction; improved marketing; and capitalization of CAVN's debt by the FIV. Some
measures were implemented and FIV absorbed part of the financial debt of CAVN. However, as a
result of liberalization of shipping, CAVN continued to lose market share and was near bankruptcy
in 1994. While the company was not successfully restructured, the overall economic benefits
resulting from liberalization of shipping were substantial.
59.    Other Restructuring Programs. Apart from the six priority PEs, five other PEs prepared
restructuring programs and signed restructuring agreements with the FIV. The results are
summarized bellow.
60.   IPOSTEL (postal service) The work force was reduced by 45%, important parts of the
function of mail delivery were contracted to the private sector, as well as non-postal services to the
enterprise (security, external auditing, maintenance).
61.   AEROPOSTAL (domestic airline). The restructuring included a 26% reduction in
personnel, closing of some agencies, selling assets, payment of debts, a small reduction of free
tickets, and improvement in its operations. But it was not sufficient. After a failed attempt to
privatize the firm, bankruptcy was declared in Nov. 1994 , and the company is in the process of
liquidation.
62.   INAVI (public housing). The institution was reorganized, its personnel reduced by 70%
(1500 employees were given early retirement), and finances were improved. Many of its activities
were privatized (e.g. mortgage collection was transferred to the commercial banks), and many of its
properties and mortgages were sold. The institution was reorganized to become a promoter of low
income housing, rather than a direct provider. This was a case of successful restructuring.
63.   IMAU (garbage collection). IMAU was liquidated and its activities were transferred to the
local municipalities, which contracted private sector firms to perform the services. The government
absorbed IMAU's debt with the private operators.
64.   ENSAL (salt mines and refineries). Its work force was reduced from 1100 to 300, and the
firrn is being transferred to the regional government for privatization.
65.   The government television stations and coffee processing plants were considered for
restructuring or privatization, but nothing was accomplished.



14
Privatization Program
66.   The initial structural reform program did not emphasize privatization. The Government
recognized that there was considerable political and labor opposition to privatization. The initial
group targeted for privatization was modest and included firms in the financial, tourism and light
manufacturing sectors thought to be financially viable and attractive to investors. This was similar to
the strategy followed in Mexico. Consequently, the Loan targets were modest (bring to point of sale
$150 million in assets). However, both the Bank and Government officials were hopeful that initial
successes would generate stronger public support for privatization, and enable an expansion of the
program.
67.   In late 1990 (after Loan approval) the Government broadened the scope of the program to,
include important enterprises such as CANTV (telecom) and VIASA (national airline). In 1991-92,
the Government successfully privatized 24 enterprises (yielding $2.5 billion in proceeds), including
inter alia VIASA (national airline), CANTV (telecom), three state-owned banks, ASTITNAVE
(shipyard), several sugar refineries, and several hotels. As well, the Government auctioned the
second cellular band to an international company and privatized cargo handling in the ports. This far
exceeded the modest privatization targets under the Loan.
68.   Privatization was the greatest success of the PERL program. The privatization program was
successful in many respects. First a Privatization Law was enacted, creating the administrative and
legal process for a broad program, and laying the basis for future privatizations. The Law also
specified that 25% of the proceeds would be allocated to finance social programs, with the remainder
to be used for debt payment and financing expenses related to future privatization and restructuring
efforts.
69.    Second, to confront the opposition to the privatization of the telephone company,
Government officials launched an extensive and well-organized program to sell the idea. This was
done inside the Government, with the political groups and with the public in general. This broke the
ice and the ideological opposition to privatization. The successful privatization of CANTV (yielding
$1.9 billion in proceeds) and the positive results in the initial post-privatization period ($600
million/year in new investment) provided convincing arguments in favor of privatization.
70.    Third, an institutional capacity was developed within the FIV, with the reorientation of the
FIV's mandate towards privatization. The FIV established a formal and transparent process for
managing the pre-qualification and bidding process. Investors praised the program for its
professionalism.
71.    One important issue that should be noted about the privatization of CANTV is the length of
the monopoly period (9 years) granted to the privatized operator for basic services (local and long
distance). A key issue is whether this is excessive and constrains economic efficiency, particularly
given worldwide trends toward competition (at least in long distance service). In adopting this
model, Venezuela followed the example of the recently-completed 1990 telecom privatizations in
Mexico and Argentina where the operators had been granted monopolies of 6 years in Mexico and 7
years, extendible to 10 (if performance targets are met) in Argentina.
72.    The Venezuela Government's rationale for granting the 9-year monopoly was not to increase
sales revenue. Rather, it reflects two factors. First, there were substantial distortions in the rate



15
structure, with long distance rates (far above economic levels) cross-subsidizing local rates (far
below economic levels). Introduction of competition would have led to a significant reduction in
long distance rates (through new entrants), but required a significant increase in local residential
rates to enable local service and network expansion to be financially viable without continued cross-
subsidies. Given the political sensitivity about price increases in general, the Government wanted to
avoid such a "rate shock". Hence, rates were to be rebalanced to economic levels over a 9-year
period, during which the privatized operator would be required to undertake a major network
expansion and service improvement program.
73.    A second factor reflects the Government's objective to attract a first-class international
operator. In discussions with potential investors, all emphasized that, given the unbalanced rate
structure and aggressive service expansion obligations, a significant monopoly period (similar to
Mexico and Argentina) would be necessary to finance such a program (through cross-subsidies from
long distance of local, and from commercial to residential).
74.    Despite this rationale, it appears that there was insufficient economic analysis undertaken
when designing the privatization, particularly at the crucial early stages when the Government was
making important decisions on the future sector structure. An effort was made to strengthen the
economic analysis and advice through additional consultants, but this may have come too late to
significantly change the model adopted by the Government.
75.   The post-privatization experience in Venezuela has shown that, given the proliferation of
new telecom services and technology, considerable disputes have arisen about whether new services
are "basic" (and hence subject to the monopoly). Moreover, even where services are deemed to be
basic, the monopoly has been difficult to enforce, given that technology now allows "bypass" of the
operator's network (often without detection). To the extent that bypass is occurring on a significant
level, this reduces the revenue available to the operator for network expansion and undermines the
original rationale for the monopoly model.
Labor reduction and cost
76.   By end- 1993 about 52,000 employees were retired or laid off in addition to 35,700 that
were transferred to the private sector as a result of privatization. One drawback of Venezuela's PE
program was the high cost related to severance payments, $420 million. Because of labor contracts
and/or agreement, severance payment was twice the level defined in the labor legislation, that is,
two months for each year of service, (rather than one month per year, as set out in the Labor Law.
For some workers, an additional 5% after 10 years service was given.
G. Evaluation and Conclusions
77.   The PERL was part of the Government's structural reform program. Public sector enterprises
were a major source of inefficiency in the economy. The PERL program was conceived as a first step
to reform them through privatization or restructuring, and to reduce the state's dominance and
preferential position in the economy. But it was recognized that the overhaul of public sector
enterprises would be a long-term reform that could take at least five to ten years.
78.   Four issues should be highlighted in evaluating the design and implementation of the PERL.
These include: (a) the price issue; (b) political conflict and public support for the program; (c)



16
strategies issues: privatization vs. restructuring, sector reform vs. enterprise reform; and (d) World
Bank commitment to a process more than to a program. These issues are discussed below.
79.    The price issue. The adjustment in prices was the most difficult part of the program. The
PERL aimed at adjusting public enterprise prices to economic levels (export opportunity cost for
tradables, like fuel and fertilizer; long-run marginal cost for non-tradables like electricity, water,
natural gas, and telephones). After some initial price adjustments in 1990-91, the program stalled in
1992, as a consequence of political difficulties and little progress was made in 1993-1994.
80.    Subsidized gasoline prices are a sensitive issue in Venezuela, related to the social
arrangement on how to distribute the income from oil. Some activities, like protected industries and
government employees, receive their share indirectly, due to monopoly rents, income above their
alternative opportunities or excess employment. Employees in government enterprises earn higher
wages and have special fringe benefits, as the severance payments under the PERL program
corroborated. The rest of society receives transfers either through subsidized government services
(education and health, for example) or via direct subsidies on prices. To eliminate the fuel price
subsidy would exclude a significant part of the population (in particular the middle class) from what
they perceive as their share of the oil income. Increasing the price of oil is therefore perceived by a
large portion of the population as a tax, transferring income from consumers to the Government.
This would be resisted, in particular given the lack of trust in Government because of historical
corruption and inefficiency.
81.    The Government did not give sufficient consideration to the political nature of fuel prices
and the tax-transfer implication of price increases. To build public consensus for price adjustments,
the Government needed to provide compensatory measures But this was not done. Consequently,
there was no public understanding or support for the fuel price adjustments, and prices were
immediately frozen when political difficulties arose, after the first coup attempt in February 1992.
82.    Political conflict and public support for the program. The structural reform program, of
which the PERL was a part, involved fundamental changes in the society's social contract and
economic organization, such as: redefining accepted ideological or cultural tenants - the role of the
state as an economic agent; eliminating existing institutions, for example, dismantling public
enterprises which affects many political interests; and changing the structure of production.
83.   In addition, the Government implemented important reforms in the electoral system. For
example, under a new law provincial governors would be elected, rather than appointed by the party
in power, as in the past. Furthermore, election of individual legislators by district became the norm,
rather than choosing them according to each party's proportional votes. In both cases, this
substantially reduced the power and presence of political parties.
84.    Thus, these policies generated considerable political and social opposition, which strained
the relationship between the President and the political groups, including his own. However, the
Government did not form a political alliance with those that would benefit from the program,
whereas those opposed articulated a strong opposition and publicly campaigned to undermine the
program. Moreover, the structural reform program was essentially designed and implemented by a
technical team of new ministers, who were not members of the President's own political party. As the



17
reform measures unfolded, little attention was paid to improving the understanding and promoting
support for the reforms on the part of the public or major political groups.
85.    After the first coup attempt in February 1992, the President shifted his priority toward
negotiating with political groups for support. A price was paid with respect to the liberalization
program in general and the PERL in particular, in terms of withdrawing key actors, delaying
decisions and suspending or reducing the legislative program. As the political situation deteriorated,
a campaign developed accusing the Government of corruption and questioning the benefits of the
reform program. Some of the interest groups that lost economic privileges as a result of the reforms
supported this campaign. The personal difficulties of the President, accused of improprieties,
increased and ended with his removal in mid-1993. There were two interim Presidents prior to the
year-end elections. In a period of less than a year, four persons were President. As a result of the
political crisis, the entire reform effort collapsed in 1992 and virtually no progress was made in
1993.
86.   Part of the problem was that the Government, at the moment of the crisis, apparently felt
limited in its capacity to appeal to the public for support of the reform program. As the program was
not previously sold to the public or politically oriented sectors, 'there were doubts about its support.
A public dialogue was not taken into account in the design of the PERL program nor in the structural
reform program generally. With the exception of the privatization program, little was done to explain
or justify the adjustment program.
87.    A large part of the opposition to structural reform and adjustment comes from
misunderstanding, which can be clarified. Political and economic opposition can be reduced if
large sectors of the public better understand the program and the need for reform. It is not
necessary to convince everybody; it is sufficient to create credibility and to reduce the intensity of
the opposition. For this reason, an effort should have been made to explain the cost of not doing
the reforms, the meaning of the reforms, the objectives and expected results, and to clarify issues,
respond to questions, etc. The reform program as a whole did not contemplate a plan of going to
the public, to professional sectors and political groups. The technical group that promoted and
implemented the reform was small; their efforts were directed towards implementation, and no
program was designed to promote or discuss the program with the public. Only in the case of
privatization this was done.
88.    In the case of privatization, it is common that strong opposition develops. Privatization is
perceived as selling the national wealth (patrimonio nacional). Hence, selling the concept of
privatization as a policy alternative becomes a political and conceptual battle. In the case of
Venezuela, as a response to the critics and opposition to the privatization of CANTV, an effort
was made to explain, defend and sell the program. As a result of these efforts opposition to
privatization diminished, and the idea of privatization became more acceptable.
89.    To promote the structural reform program, some benefits for the public should exist from
the beginning. In this way the success is perceived earlier, and it is also expected for the rest of
the program. The evaluation of success of an adjustment program is some times measured by the
success in the implementation of its measures. But the true success is in the resulting benefits.
The public will support the program when they see that it solves problems. That is the case of
fiscal constraint to reduce inflation. An immediate measure of success is perceived. For this
I See also Performance Audit Report. The World Bank



18
reason, the design of the program should take this into account and implement measures which
produce early results. This was one shortcoming of the structural reform program in general and
the PERL program in particular.
90.    Strategies issue: Privatization vs. Restructuring. Sector Reform vs. Enterprises
Reform. The PERL program was designed with an emphasis on restructuring public enterprises
to improve their efficiency, as a first step toward privatization. Direct privatization objectives
were modest (bringing only $150 million in assets to point of sale), although both the Bank and the
Venezuela's technical group had higher expectations.
91.    The results clearly demonstrate that privatization was successful in improving efficiency
and performance, but restructuring failed in the large PEs. In many cases, the companies used
restructuring as an alternative to privatization or to avoid it. Although restructuring agreements
were signed with more than 12 enterprises, none demonstrated major improvements in financial
performance, productivity, or efficiency. In fact, many were in worse financial condition by end-
1994 than before the restructuring process commenced. In several cases, the companies had
already undertaken several restructuring exercises in recent years, involving varying degrees of
reorganization, decentralization, etc. None was successful. Venezuela's lack of success with
reforming and restructuring public enterprises is not unique. International experience in both
developed and developing countries is similar in virtually all countries (with a few exceptions).
But, when the PERL was being designed, this experience was not known. Better results with
restructuring were obtained in the small PEs.
92.   The program strategy was to emphasize enterprise reform, rather than sector reform. The
"enterprise approach", to look at the public enterprise as if it were the sector, apparently was
based on the monopolist nature of the public firms. It was thought that privatization of the
government firm would solve the sector liberalization problems. This was not so. There are sector
issues that are independent of privatization, or that should be looked as sector optimization
policies, such as increasing competition, optimal price structure, etc. In the case where the public
enterprise was not privatized, as in electricity, no sector issues were resolved (such as private
sector generation). Even in the case of privatization, as in the telephone company, sector issues
were not properly addressed (like the duration of the monopoly) or are still pending (like the
relative price distortion). On the other hand, in the case where the program followed a sector
approach, as in the shipping sector, the success was complete. Venezuela's experience reinforces
the idea that in the design and implementation of public enterprise reforms the issue of sector
reform, as well as enterprise reform, should be addressed.
93.    One important lesson from Venezuela's privatization experience was that privatization was
only accomplished when persons committed to the reform program and privatization were namned
director of the institutions involved, and sector minister. Without these charges, managers remained
committed to maintaining the enterprises and delayed the privatization efforts. This experience in
Venezuela tends to confirm international privatization experience.
Bank Performance
94.    World Bank commitmnent to a process more than to a program. The PERL was
designed under special circumstances. There was no prior economic or sector analysis. Venezuela
had been outside the Bank from 1974-89, so that the Bank did not have background information
and analysis on public enterprises in the economy. At the same time, the Government wished to



19
move urgently on the reforms, and the Bank wanted to provide continued support at that critical
time in the reform process. Conditionalities were loosely defined, with the understanding that
specific measures would be developed as further analysis/studies were undertaken and the reform
process continued to unfold.
95.   In practice, two programs developed. On one hand, there was the formal PERL program
covering a large number of reforms (price adjustments, legal/institutional reforms, restructuring,
privatization, etc.). On balance, this program was not successful, for a number of reasons: (a)
conditionalities were not very specific which reduced the Bank's leverage; (b) the resistance to
change was under-estimated, which delayed the process; (c) the program was over-ambitious and
unrealistic, particularly given the fragility of support; (d) the program incorrectly emphasized
restructuring (which failed) rather than privatization; (e) insufficient attention was given to
restructuring sectors (e.g. electricity), rather than enterprises, which would have gone much
further in promoting competition and private participation, as well as imposing much greater
market discipline on the remaining public enterprises; and (f) transferring responsibilities to local
government was not accompanied with capacity building. Nevertheless the program did achieve
reduction in employment and financial transfers to PE (partially due to privatization), plus a
moderate success in restructuring small enterprises.
96.   In retrospect, nevertheless, one can argue that the PERL supported a parallel agenda of
reforms, a reform process, (not specifically put forward in the Loan covenants) which was
significantly accomplished. This consisted of: (a) technical support to the group that was
committed, with the endorsement of Venezuela's President, to the overall reform program; (b)
financial support to the Government's investment program and to give some leverage to the
reform-oriented actors; and (c) reducing the role of govermnent through privatization and
dismantling of institutions that had been the source of inefficiency, bloated employment, and
corruption.
97.   While the formal PERL program largely failed, the major goals of the parallel program or
process were achieved. Important firms were privatized successfully. The legal framework and
institutional capacity for privatization was established. A group of government enterprises, instead
of being restructured to improve their efficiency, was liquidated. A group of government
enterprises, instead of being restructured to improve their efficiency, were liquidated or privatized.
These results were achieved during a short window of opportunity, from late 1989 to the end of
1991, which validated the Bank's decision to strongly support the program in spite of its risk.
98.    The success of these measures was beyond the formal loan conditions, and attests to the
ownership of the program by the Perez's Government. This was further demonstrated by the
efforts to continue the program even under the negative political conditions. Political developments
undermined the support and cut short the implementation of the structural reform program and the
PERL program. The new Government, which took office in February 1994, did not continue
them, and at the end the loan was closed. Nevertheless, in particular with respect to the PERL, the
achievements in privatization and the reduction of the size of public enterprise remains.
Venezuela's experience show that commitment to a process was more important than program
specifics.



20
Project Sustainability and Evaluation
99.   One can infer that the existence of ample and efficient technical support from those
involved, as well as good coordination between the Bank and Venezuela's team, was necessary to
achieve what they did, given the short time available and difficult environment.
100.  The project success can be evaluated as adequate, due to privatization. Privatization and
liquidation reduced the size of the Government and, by eliminating inefficient enterprises,
increased the Government and country productivity. The program also contributed to reducing the
government deficit from public enterprises. The achievements of the project in terms of
privatization, liquidation and restructuring have been sustained to date and are likely to continue to
be so.



21
PART Il: (From the Government's Perspective)
(Not received at time of printing)






23
VENEZUELA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(LOAN NO. 3223-VE)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Initiating Memorandun          March 2, 1990
Letter of Development Policy    May 17, 1990
Negotiations                   May 11-14, 1990
Board Approval                 June 12, 1990
Loan Agreement                 October 15, 1990
Effectiveness                  December 7, 1990
Original Loan Closing          June 30, 1993
Actual Loan Closing            June 30, 1994
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
Amount (US$ million)
FY91        FY92       FY93
Appraisal Estimate    157.5*     242.5       350.0
Actual                157.5       242.5      242.5
Actual as % of
Finance               100.0       100.0        69.2
* Including the debt set-aside of USS87.5 million
DATES OF TRANCHE DISBURSEMENTS
Amount
Tranche .US$ million)         Date
First         157.5      December 1990
Second         85.0      December 1991
Third         107.5     Cancelled



24
MISSION DATA
Stage of Project    Month/Year   No. of Weeks  No. of Persons   Staff Weeks
Preparation            9/89            2.0           10             20.0
Preappraisal          11/89            2.0           4               8.0
Appraisal             3/90             2.0            1              2.0
Negotiations           n/a             2.4            1              2.4
Supervision I         10/90            2.0           3               6.0
Supervision II        2/91             1.5           5               8.0
Supervision mI        6/91             2.0           3               6.0
Supervision IV        11/91            2.0           2               4.0
Supervision V         1/92             1.0           2               2.0
Supervision VI        7/92             1.0            1              1.0
Supervision VII       5/93             1.2            1              1.2
STAFF INPIITS
(in Staff Weeks)
GRAND
FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95    TOTAL
LENP           .5   63.6                                            64.1
LENA                 6.1                                             6.1
LENN                 13.4                                           13.4
SPN                   .2  62.4   35.7    9.6    5.7                113.6
PCR                                                        9.0       9.0
TOTAL          .5   83.3   62.4   35.7    9.6    5.7    9.0        206.2






IMAGING
Report No:        15239
Type: PCR



