Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No.P-5327-VE
IEPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$350 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF tENEZUELA
MAY 19, 1990
Tbis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
dteir offial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CuMY SQUIVALEMnS
Currency Unit - Bollvar (Bs)
US$1 - 43.45 Be
(As of March 26, 1990)
ABBREVIATIONS
AEROPOSTAL      -   Linea Aeropostal Venezolana
ALCASA          -  Aluminio del Caroni, S.A.
BAUXIVEN        -   Bauxita Venezolana, C.A.
BCv             -   Banco Central de Venezuela
CADAFE          -   Compaflia An6nima de Ldministraci6n y Fomento El6ctrico
CAMETRO         -   Compaffia An6nima Metro de Caracas
CANTV           -   Compaflia An6nima Nacional de Telefono
CARBOSUROESTE   -   Carbones del Suroeste
CAVN            -   CompafSia An6nima Venezolana de Navegaci6n
CORDIPLAN       -   Oficina Central de Coordinaci6n y Planificaci6n de la
Presidencia de la Rep6blica
CORPOTURISMO    -   Corporaci6n de Turismo de Venezuela
CSB             -   Centro Sim6n Bolivar, C.A.
CVF             -   Corporacifn Venezolana de Fonento
CVG             -   Corporaci6n Venezolana de Guayana
EDELCA          -   Electrificaci6n del Caroni
FERROCAR        -   Ferrocarriles de Venezuela
FERROMINERA     -   Ferrominera del Orinoco
FIV             -   Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
IMAU            -   Instituto Metropolitano de Aseo Urbano
INAVI           -   Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda
INH             -   Instituto Nacional de Hip6dromos
INOS            -   Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
INP             -   Instituto Nacional de Puertos
IPOSTEL         -   Instituto Postal Telegr6fico
INTERALUMINA    -   Internacional de Aluminio, C.A.
LRMC            -   Long-run Marginal Cost
OCEPRE          -   Oficina Certral de Presupuesto
PDVSA           -   Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A.
PEQUIVEN        -   Petroquimica do Venezvula
SIDOR           -   Siderdrgica del Orinoco, C.A.
SIEX            -   Sistema de Inversiones Extranjeras
VENALUM         -   Industrias Venezolanas de Aluminio
VIASA           -   Venezolana Internacional de Aviaci6n



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PUBLC unTiUPS   31031 Low
Table of Corneate
Loan and Program Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
PART t.     THE ECONOMY .              ....... .    .                  . 1
Background  . . . . .          ...                           1 . . . . . .
The Initial Adjustment Program                        . . . 2
The Current Adjustment Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Sta'us of Negotiations with Commercil. Bank Creditors . . 3
Medium-Ternm Macroeconomic and Policy Framework  . . . . . 4
PART II. TME PUBLIC ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT PROORAM AND THE
PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL) . . . . . . 7
Background  . . . .................. .                     . 7
Structure and Characteristics of the PE Sector  .   . .       . 8
Key Public Enterprise Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The Proposed Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Adjustment of Prices for Goods and Services
Produced by PEs           . . . . .. 13
Improving the CMpetitive Environment,
Market Discipline and Private Investment        . .15
Leg3l, Financial, and Institutional Framework Governing
Relationship Between PUs and Central Government . . . . 17
Restructuring of Priority Enterprises .21
Privatization Program..  24
Social and Financial Impact of PE Reform Program  . . . 26
PART II. THE PROPOSED LOAN ..27
Loan Amount and Tranching. .. .                             27
Loan Conditions           ...27
Loan Disbursement and Procurement   . . . .28
Technical Assistance            .... 29
Benefits and Risks           ...29
Monitoring and Evaluation . . .                             31
PART IV.   COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS . . . . 31
History of Bank Assistance .32
Bank Operational Strategy .32
Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending .33
IFC Lending Program ..34
PAT V.      COLLABORATION WITH THE IV..                           . .W  34
PART fI.  RECOI4ENDATION...  34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ii. the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World dank authorization.



VENEz5EL - PUtLIC ENTIEPRISE IRPOIi LOaN
Table of Contents - tcontinued)                                    2.
ANEmS
1.  Policy Matrix . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
2.  Policy Letter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Attacbment 1 - Restructuring of the Ports Sector . . . . . 52
Attacbment 2 - Restructuring Program for CADAPE  . . . . . 55
Attachrent 3 - Restructuring of the Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
3.  Key Macroeconomic Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
4.  Public Enterprise Sector - Macro Indicators . . . . . . . . . 67
5.  Consolidated Non-Financial Public Enterprises .  . . . . . . 69
6. Government Financial Support to Non-Financial
Public Enterprises  . . . . . . . . . . . ....    . . .. 71
7.  Key Indicators for Major Non-Financial Public Enterprises . . 73
8.  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 75
9.  Terms of Reference for Review of Financial,
Legal, and Tutelary Relationships between the
Central Government and Public Enterprises . . . . . . . . . 77
10.  Terms of Reference for Restructuring Study for SIDOX  . . . . 81
11.  Terms of Reference for Restructuring Study for CANTV  . . . . 87
Map - IBRD 22154 (March 1990)



- i -
vEmZWA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REPORM LOAN
Loan and Proaram Summav
Borrowers         Republic of Venezuela
Amounts           US$350 million equivalent
Terms:            15 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Loan and Protram  The proposed loan would support institutional and policy
Descriltion:      reforms directed at reducing the dominance of the public
sector in the economy; improving the competitive environment
for the private sector; increasing the efficiency of and
rationalizing pricing policy in public enterprises;
promoting clarity, transparency, and accountability in the
relationship between the Central Government and PEs; and
laying a base for stronger public finances over the medium
and longer term. Its medium-term policy goals include a
substantial increase in the participation of the private
sector in the economy; expansion of private investment, both
national and foreign, in all sectors; establisbment of a
level playing field and maintenance of market discipline for
both public and private enterprises in commercial sectors;
minimizing PE monopoly powers and establishing regulatory
mechanisms as needed for unavoidable public monopolies; and
substantial reduction of general Government transfers to
public enterprises over the medium term. The Government has
already taken steps to simplify the regulatory environment
for the private sector and to open up virtually all sectors
to foreign investors. Over the next two years, the reform
program will focus on the restructuring of about 11 priority
PEs, the privatization of about 100 PEs, and the
establishment of clear and transparent institutional
relationships between the Central Government and the
remaining PEs.
Benefits and      The benefits of the reform program include:  a) improved
Risks:            efficiency in the performance of essential public services;
b) improved incentives and opportunities for private sector
activity and investment; c) an increase . the productivity
and profitability of those assets remaining in the public
sector; d) strengthened public finances, and e) a
streamlined public sector, which can more effectively
implement public policy. While the impact of the program is
difficult to quantify, several structural changes are also
expected to result in the next five years. New investment
in commercial activities will be predominantly private, and
private investment is expected to expand both in real terms



- ii -
and as a percentage of GDP. With regard to public
utilities, a substantial improvement in the quality of
teiephone, water, ports, and electricity services,
accompanied by an expansion in private participation through
private concessions and management contracts, and in some
cases sale of assets, is planned. Finally, the productivity
of PE assets is expected to improve, with approximately
three-quarters of nonfinancial PE assets outside the
petroleum sector (accounting for about 75Z of Government
transfers to PEs) captured under the restructuring and
privatization programs. The major risk to the success of
the program is possible delay in implementation associated
with pressures from affected interest groups; the loan has
accordingly been designed with a back-loaded disbursement
profile (excluding the debt set-aside allocation), to he'p
sustain the momentum of the adjustment program.
Fstimated         The loan would be disbursed in three tranches of US$70
Disbursements:    million, US$85 million, and US$107.5 million, respectively.
The first tranche would be available for disbursement at the
time of loan effectiveness. In addition, US$87.5 million
would be available to finance a debt reduction program, upon
loan effectiveness and upon agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank on a debt reduction program. The second and
third tranches would be available upon fulfillment of
specified conditior.s of tranche release. Disbursements of
the entire loan are expected to be completed by June 30,
1993.
Retroactive       Retroactive financing in the amount of US$70 million would
Financints        be available for eligible expenditures incurred after March
31, 1990.
Schedule of
Disbursements%       Bank FY         Debt-Aside      Annual       Cumulative
-----------(US$ Millions)------------
91              87.5            70          157.5*/
92                              85          242.5
93                             107.5        350.0
* Including the debt set-aside
Appraisal
Report:           This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.
Hat):             IBRD 22154 (March 1990)



REPORT AND PECOCHENDATION OF TM PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIOXVL BSNA  FOR DECONSTIUCTION AND DEVBLOPNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIZCRTOUS
ON A PROPOSED PMBLIC ERTERPRISL REFORK LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$350 MILLION
TO THE GOVEIZRYUT OF VENMZUELA
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a propose.- loan for
the equivalent of US$350 million to the Government of Venezuela. The loan, to
support a public enterprise reform program, would have a term of 15 year.,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
IDB has indicated its intention to provide parallel financing for the loan in
the amount of US$300 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.     In the period since the first oil price shock in 1973, Venezuela has
failed to realize the potential for economic development offered by its petro-
leum and other natural resources. The reasons for this disappointing perfor-
mance have been fourfold. First, Venezuela lacked a coherent and viable long-
term development app jach and strategy. Instead, there was a steady increace
in the extent and complexity of direct economic controls by the state. This
led to incrtasing structural rigidities and an inability to generate suffi-
cient growth in productive capacity to s..stain the grow'.ng population.
Venezuela's non-oil productive sectors grew up behind high barriers of protec-
tive tariffs and restrictions, which left them ill-equipped to compete exter-
nally or to utilize resources efficiently. Venezuela's economy was governed
by a highly complex and intertwined set of regulations and subsidies, which
affected virtially all modern sector acti'-ities and introduced innumerable
distortions. Second, as a consequence o' those policies, Venezuela has
remained dependent on petroleum, whicb   ovided 95? of its export earnings
before the 1986 collapse in prices an(   ill accounts for over 70t of
earnings. Third, Venezuela failed to & Iress the problems of poverty ade-
quately and to develop effective policies and services in the social sectors.
Finally, Venezuela's public irstitutious and public administration remained
weak and could not provide the basis needed for modernization of Government
operations, in support of a sustainable wrdium-term development strategy.
3.     When the newly-elected Administration of President Perez took office on
February 2, 1989, the economic situation was untenables operating reserves
were depleted, imports were accelerating in expectation of devaluation, and
the Central Bank had built up arrears to Venezuelan nationals, as it stopped
providing foreign exchange at the overvalued official rate. Furthermore.
there were shortages of price-controlled staples, such as bread, coffee,
sugar, and rice. The new Government almost immediately initiated a sweeping
program of reforms, not only to correct the immediate imbalances and distor-
tions, but also to redefine the role of the state in the economy, increase the
role of market forces in the allocation of resources, and create an open,
competitive economic environment, which would stimulate the efficient growth
of the non-oil productive sectors. To address the problem of persistent
poverty, the Government moved to convert indirect subsidies into targetted
social programs.



- 2-
The Inltial Adjustment Proara
4.     The basic components of the initial adjustment program includeds
replacing the multiple exchange rate system by a unified market-determined
exchange rate system (under which the bolivar immediately depreciated to about
Bs 36 per US$1.00, compared to the previous official rate of Be 14 per
Us$1.00); rationalizing and liberalizing the trade reglme, by reducing the
coverage of quantitative restrictions, setting a maximum tariff rate of 80S,
and eliminating exonerations of tariffst allowing most interest rates to be
determined by market forces, which led to a substantial increase in deposit
and most lending rates; increasing the prices for petroleum products in the
domestic market and for most public utilities; dismantling most of the
domestic price control system; and curtailing fiscal expenditures.
S.     From the beginning of the adjustment program, it was recognized that
its success in restoring growth on a sustainable basis would require adequate
external financing to permit increases in imports, investments, and interna-
tional reserves during the period of adjustment toward a more competitive
export sector and efficient import substitution, as well as toward higher
domestic savings. As a first step, the Government sought the support of the
international financial institutions. Based on the strength of the adjustment
program, the IMP responded with approval in March 1989 of a First Credit
Tranche purchase of SDR 343 million and approval in June 1989 of a three-year
Extended Fund Facility of SDR 3.7 billion (about US$4.8 billion equivalent).
Likewise, the World Bank approved in June 1989 a Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) of US$402 milion and a Trade Policy Loan (TPL) of US$353 million.
6.     The economic program initiated in February 1989 has succeeded in cor-
recting major internal and external imbalances in less than a year. On the
internal side, the overall deficit of the consolidated, non-financial public
sector has declined from 8.3Z of GDP in 1988 to an estimated 1.4Z of GDP in
1989. Performance on the external side was also strong: the current account
balance shifted from a deficit of 7.52 of GDP in 1988 to an estimated surplus
of 4.6Z of GDP in 1989. This surplus was the result of a 202 increase in oil
export earnings, due to strong oil prices, a surge of over 301 in non-oil
exports, and a 372 decline in imports, the latter due to both the devaluation
of the bolivar and a sharp decline in non-oil GDP of 9.3Z. This current
account outcome, helped by significant capital repatriation in recent months,
made it possible to begin to rebuild international reserves from the danger-
ously low level of end-1988.  These significant improvements in both public
finances and the balance of payments, together with a tight monetary policy,
have led to a rapid stabilization of inflation and exchange rates. Domestic
inflation initially accelerated from a 1988 annual rate of 242 to an annual
rate of 1501 during the first half of 1989, due to the devaluation and in-
creases in Government-controlled prices. However, the annual inflation rate
in the second half of i989 fell to only 321, and is expected to fall below 302
during 1990. In a similar pattern, the bolivar continued to depreciate
slightly following the sharp devaluation in March 1989, from about Be 36 per
US$1.00 to about Be 43 per US$1.00 in October 1989. But, since that time, it
has remained stable, in the range of Ba 42 to Be 46 per US$1.00.
7.     The short-run cost of correcting these imbalances has been high.  In
1989, total GDP declined by 8.1Z, and non-oil GDP, by 9.32. This sharper-
than-expected decline reflecteds  (a) overshooting the fiscal target of a 42



- 3 .
deficit, due in part to delays in recognizing exchange losses on letters of
credit from the earlier multiple exchange rate system and In legislative
approval of the investment program; (b) a sharp reduction in inventories,
which had been built up in 1988 In anticipation of devaluation and decontrol
of prices; and tc) the sluggish response of private sector investment to the
new policy environment. However, provided that the external f!uancing con-
straint can be alleviated, it is expected that growth can resume in 1990
g.vens increasing private sector confidence in a more stable economic envi-
ronment; an end to inventory reductions, as stocks reach normal levels; an
increase in publVc sector investment, consistent with a fiscal deficit target
of less than 21 of GDP; and increased utilization of idle capacity, which vill
require more imports of intermediate goods. But it should be recognized that,
given the severity of the 1989 recession, even healthy growth in 1990 would
not restore output to the 1988 levels.
The Current Adiustment Program
8.     The Government has continued to adequately fulfill the macroeconomic
performance argets established under the EFP, and on May 14, 1990, the IMP
approved the purchase under the EPF associated with the December 1989 perfor-
mance criteria. Also, in recent months, the Government has taken further
steps in the reform program initiated in early 1989. In March, the Government
announced that, consistent with its schedule for trade reform over a two-year
period, as agreed under the Trade Policy Loan, the maximum tariff rate was
reduced from 8SO to 50, and the share of imports covered by non-tariff bar-
riers was further reduced. These steps, together with recent measures to
eliminate barriers to foreign investors (para. 41), should over the medium
term stimulate investment in competitive exports and efficient import sub-
stitution. Having completed significant steps toward a macroeconomic policy
environment which promises to achieve a sustainable growth path, the Govern-
ment is now turning its attention to the sectoral, institutional, and legal
reforms necessary to support the supply response to the macroeconomic adjust-
ment progLam. Areas of priority are the programs of financial sector and
public enterprise reform, both to be supported by Bank loans. A third
critical area in which the Government plans to begin a reform effort is
agricultural trade, pricing and regulatory policy.
Status of Nesotiations with Commrcial Bank Creditors
9.     As noted above, restoration of growth in 1990 and beyond will also
depend on sufficient external financing. For this purpose, Venezuela had been
negotiating with its comuercial bank creditors on an agreement to reduce the
burden of the existing debt overhang. After prolonged negotiations, on
March 20, 1990, the Government and members of its Bank Advisory Comittee
announced agreement in principle on the basic terms of options to be offered
to the banks holding about US$20 billion of Venezuela's external debt. The
options to be offered to the creditor banks ares principal discount bonds and
par bonds with below-market interest rates, which would have principal fully
collateralized and interest payments partly collateralized; temporary .nterest
reduction bonds, which would have partial collateralization of interest pay-
ments during the five years of below-market interest rutes; cash buybacks at a
fixed price, taking into account the secondary market price for existing debt;
and debt conversion boads, in proportion to purchases of new money bonds.
Soon after achieving this agreement in principle, the Government cleared its



- 4 -
arrears with the commercial banks. As soon as the term sheets for these
options are finalized, the creditor banks will be asked to Indicate how much
of their existing claims would be offered for buyback or exchange under these
options. Once this final package is known, Venezuela would lormally seek Bank
and DNP support, as well as that of official bilateral sources, for this
program of debt and debt service reduction. The impact of this proposed
program is discussed briefly in the following section.
Nbdium-Term Macroeconomic and Policy Framework
10. The Government's medium-ternm strategy is designed to restore high rates
of growth of output and employment in a context of low inflation and viable
balance of payments. This growth would be achieved through a fundamental
restructuring and diversification of the economy which would result from the
implementation of deep-rooted structural reforms aimed ats (a) reducing the
scope of the public sector in the economy through fiscal restraint, deregula-
tion, and privatization of selected public enterprises; (b) enhancing the
efficiency of resource use by liberalizing trade, allowing prices to move to
economic levels, and redefining the relationship between the Government and
public enterprises; and (c) strengthening the financial sector and increasing
its efficiency. The objective is to strengthen national savings, encourage
private investment, and increase economic efficiency.
11.    Venezuela's medium-term macroeconomic and policy framework, taking into
account the possible impact of the proposed debt reduction program, is
described by the projections presented in Annex 3. These are the Bank's
preliminary revisions of projections which had been agreed among the Govern-
ment, the Bank, and the Ir in late 1989. These revised projections show a
smaller financing gap (prior to debt reduction) than the projections of late
1989, due not only to the assumption of slightly higher oil prices but also to
the initial impact of the adjustment program in boosting non-oil exports and
encouraging capital repatriation (which was apparently used to pay off overex-
tended credit lines and thereby reduces projected interest payments). Discus-
sions will begin soon between the IMP and the Government on targets for the
1990/91 program year under the EFF, and the outcome of these discussions, as
well as any further changes in the medium-term external outlook, may require
updating of these projections. The scenario presented is consistent with
annual GDP growth of about 5Z during 1990-95 and predicated on the path of
roughly constant real oil prices now projected by the Bank. The scenario
assumes the Governmnt's continued commitment to the ongoing reform program.
Also, the scenario a eaumes that the proposed program of debt and debt service
reduction is success Ally implemented, with virtually all of the eligible debt
offered for buyback or exchange; this results in lower interest payments to
the commercial biaks on the order of US$700-800 million annually.17 Given
this assumption, the proposed debt reduction program closes the financing gap
which would otherwise arise in this scenario. Finally, the scenario already
takes into account the proposed Bank lending, including the two adjustment
loans in FY90, and the possible Bank support for the debt reduction program
necessary to achieve this scenario.
/ The scenario arbitrarily assumes a particular allocation of existing debt
among options; the results would not change significantly for other alloca-
tions.



12.    The most notable features of this scenazio, over the next five years.
are as follows:
(a)    Gross fixed investment would need to grow from about 202 of GDP in 1990
to about 251 by 1995, with an increasing share of private sector in-
vestment; gross national savings also would need to grow to about 262
of GDP by 1995;
(b)    Per capita private consumption would grow at an annual average rate of
1.3Y over 1990-95;
(c)    The consolidated public sector moves to a fiscal surplus, reflecting
rising domestic revenues from the petroleum sector and declining exter-
nal interest payments as a share of GDP. If this were to occur, the
already small stock of public domestic debt would be progressively
reduced, and the public sector woull be a net lender to the private
sector;
(d)    Non-oil exports would grow at a rate of 10-20S per annum in nominal
dollar terms (compared to over 30S growth in 1989); nevertheless, the
share of petroleum sector exports would remain high because non-oil
exports are starting from a small base;
Ce)   The current account as traditionally defined by the Central Bank would
be almost balanced, with deficits of less than 12 of GDP in most years
before 1995.  However, deducting the imputed private interest income on
assets held abroad, which is counted in these figures, the deficit
would be on the order of 2? of GDP. This favorable current account
position reflects the lvpact of the assumed debt reduction plan, with-
out which the current account deficit would increase by about 1.32 of
GDP;
sf)    Gross international reserves, including gold at US$300 per ounce, would
be rebuilt to the level of 7-8 months of imports, which is prudent
given the country's dependence on volatile oil revenues and the Govern.
ment'sa intention to maintain a floating exchange rate regime and an
open capital account. Such reserve accumulation, given the projected
increasing oil prices, would provide an essential cushion against
temporary oil price declines. Such a level of reserves is essential to
provide confidence to foreign exchange and domestic financial markets
and, thereby, to sustain the recovery of investment. Based on fluctua-
tions in the price of oil during the 19809, one standard deviation
reduction in the projected price of oil in the 1990-94 period is
equivalent to US$4.6 per barrel. Such a reduction in a single year
would reduce Venezuela's export earnings by almost US$3 billion in that
year, equal to one-third of the average level of liquid reserves pro-
jected for the 1990-94 period.
(g)    MLT capital inflows would be 3-52 of GDP in 1990-93; this would finance
the current account deficit, the buyback and collateralisation of some
part of the commercial bank debt under the proposed debt reduction
program (which will cost US$3-4 billion), and the essential build-up of
international reserves. By 1994, as the trade surplus grows toward 32
of GDP, MLT capital inflows would begin to fall toward 22; and



- 6 -
(h)    Venezuela's external debt ratios, following the debt reduction program,
would fall significantly to levels consistent with sustainable growth;
the debt service to export ratio would decline from almost 40? in 1988
to about 202 In 1991 and beyond.
13.    In implementing this macroeconomic framework, particular attention must
be given to the following. First, there must be a policy environment condu-
cive to the growth of private investment, which would generate increased
demand for credit from the banking system and require expanded imports of
capital and intermediate goods. An Important thrust of the Government's
program of deregulation and liberalisation has been to create such an
environment. Defining in a more limited way the role of public enterprises,
privatizing selected public enterprises, and ensuring efficient provision of
essential services (such as ports and telecommanications) by the relevant
public enterprises are also essential and would be supported by the public
enterprise reform loan (PERL). Second, there must be an efficient and sound
financial system to effectively channel the investment of both private and
public savings. Creation of such a financial system is the objective of the
financial sector reform program. Third, to ensure that public sector resour-
ces are not wasted on uneconomic investments by the public enterprises, a new
and sound relationship must be established between the Government anti the
public enterprises. A framework must be created, in which the investment
decisions of those enterprises (other than natural monopolies) are subject to
market discipline and the natural monopolies are guided by appropriate regula-
tions. This is the thrust of the public enterprise adjustment program.
Fourth, to ensure that the expansion of net credit to the private sector does
not simply lead to capital flight, the Central Bank must maintain sufficiently
attractive real interest rates on domestic assets and avoid overvaluation of
the exchange rate. And, fifth, careful attention must be given to the manage-
ment of international reserves to ensure that, during periods in which the
price of oil is at or above its expected trend levels, reserves are accumu-
lated to pz.vide a cushion against future price declines. Achieving all of
these objectives will require careful and continuous monitoring. For this,
the existence of the IMF'c EFF program will make mn important contribution in
the near-term. Under the proposed operation, maintenance of a macroeconomic
framework consistent with the obiectives of the adiustment prosram is a
condition of effectiveness and second and third tranche release.
14.    In addition to the crucial contribution made by the International
financial institutions (InIs) to the development of the policy framework
described above, the IPIs have an important role to play in the financing
required for returning Venezuels to a sustainable growth path. The relative
role of the IFIs must be viewed in the context of the proposed debt and debt
service reduction program now under negotiation.  Under the proposed program,
the major contribution of the commercial banks would be to relinquish claims
equal in present value terms to 25-30J of the face value oi their existing
claims. (There is an option under the program for the banks to contribute new
money, but the maximum amount of new money (net of rights for debt-equity
swaps at par) is US$700 million.) During 1990-95, the program would reduce by
about US$600 million annually the net financing required by the growth path in
the scenario presented in Annex 3. Given this assumed level of debt and debt
service reduction, the remaining annual average of net disbursements du-ing
1990-92 would be about US$3.8 billion and during 1993-95 only about US$1.2
billion. During 1990-92, the World Bank would contribute about 22? and the



IMP about 38? of these net disbursements; these figures include estimates of
additional lending to support the debt and debt service reduction program.
These net disbursements would not only support the policy reform programs to
which they are directed, but also make possible implementation of the debt
reduction program and the continued build-up of international reserves to
prudent levels. Over 1990-95, th* Bank (based on the current lending program)
would contribute about 24U and the Fund, 182. Given the fact that the Bank
had no exposure to Venezuela in 1989, the planned increases in net disburse-
ments by the Bank would not be excessives although the Bank's share of the
reduced debt stock would rise to about 122 in 1998, projected debt service to
the Bank in that year would be only 2.2Z of total exports.
PART II - UES PUBLIC ENUIRPRISE AWDUSMEIT PROGRAM AND THE
PROPOSED PUBLIC ETUER¢RISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
BaCkaround
15.    One of the most striking features of the Venezuelan economy during the
1970s and '80s was the increasing importance of the public sector, and parti-
cularly state-owned enterprises, in the economy. In addition to public servi-
ces (i.e., water, sanitation, electricity, and telecommunications), public
enterprises (PEs) dodmnate many other sectors of the economy, particularly
large-scale capital-intensive industry, such as petroleum, mining, steel, and
aluminum. This growth reflects an ambitious development strategy during the
last 15 years, through which the Government directed resources generated by
the petroleum sector to maintain artificially low prices for key goods and
services, develop untapped natural resources, and promote import substitution
and self-sufficiency. This strategy was largely initiated in the mid-1970s
with the nationalization of the oil and iron ore industries, followed by heavy
public investment in the power, steel, and aluminum sectors. Expansion of the
public sector took place in the context of an import-licensing system directed
at limiting competition, as well as a focus on providing low-cost services and
products in the domestic market at the expense of cost recovery and
profitability.
16. While the substantial savings generated by the petroleum sector enabled
the Government to continue heavy public expenditure and subsidies of public
services into the early 1980s, depletion of the country's international
reserves and a heavy external debt (reflecting significantly PE borrowings) in
the mid-1980s prompted a reassessment of the public sector's role in the
economy. The current Government is seeking to increase the public sector's
efficiency and reduce its size, through appropriate cost recovery, the imposi-
tion -f market discipline on PEs, restructuring priority enterprises critical
for economic recovery, privatization of commercially viable PEs no longer
serving public policy objectives, and promotion of national and foreign pri-
vate investment, all with the objectives of simplifying public management and
stimulating private sector development.
17,    The proposed loan would support institutional and policy changes
directed at reducing the dominance of the public sector in the economy;
improving the competitive environment for the private sector; increasing the
efficiency of PEs providing services critical to the productive sectors;



- 8 -
promoting clarity, transparency and accountability in the relationship between
Central Government and PEs; and laying a base for stronger public finances
over the medium and longer term. A central objective of the public enterprise
adjustment program is to minimize policies or practices which discriminate
between public and private enterprises, distort incentives, and militate
against competition. Substantial progress in this regard has already begun in
the context of the structural adjustment and trade policy operations. v"Iese
operations have supported the dismantling of the price control and imp, L
licensing systems5 introduced phased adjustment programs for highly-subsidized
fertilizers and petroleum prices, with the objective of reaching export oppor-
tunity cost in 1992; provided financing for long-run marginal cost (LRMC)
studies for nontradeable commodities produced by PEs (electricity, telecommu-
nications, natural gas) to establish rational pricing; and launched a priva-
tization program. It also focuses more fundamentally on changing the role of
the public sector in the economy. Its medium-term policy goals, which are set
out in the Government's Policy Letter (see Annex 2), include: i) a substan-
tial increase in the participation of the private sector in the economy;
ii) virtual elimination of general Government transfers to PEs, witb the
exception of targetted and transparent subsidies; iii) expansion of private
investment, both national and foreign, through elimination of regulatory
barriers; iv) maintenance of a level playing field and of market discipline
for both public and private enterprises; and v) minimizing PE monopoly powers
and establishing regulatory mechanisms as needed for unavoidable monopolies.
18.   The process of public enterprise reform, although well-launched, is
just beginning, and will require at least 5 years to reach completion. The
public enterprise reform program will need to be part of a larger process of
public sector reform, which should include the professionalization of the
civil service, strengthening of macroeconomic policy-making, and improved
management of public finances. The privatization program will require efforts
for three to four years before its full impact is felt. Institutional reforms
(i.e., introduction of performance agreements between the Central Government
and PEs) will also require that both Central Government ministries and PEs are
adequately staffed and managed. The initial impact of restructuring and
privatization on Central Government finances will be negative, reflecting up-
front costs associated with debt restructuring, pension and severance
payments, and rehabilitative investments in neglected public utilities.
Structure and Characteristics of the Public Enterprise Sector
19.    The public sector in Venezuela (including petroleum) accounted for
roughly 301 of GDP and one-fifth of employment in 1988. In addition to the
Central Government, it includes roughly 315 entities with majority Government
ownership. Another 66 entities have minority Government participation. The
315 majority-owned entities include approximately 185 commercially-oriented
public enterprises (incorporated as 'sociedades an6nimas' or 'companias
an6nimas' under the Commercial Code). The remaining 125 agencies (classified
as autonomous institutes, foundations, and civil associations) are administra-
tive in nature and include, inter aliat universities, hospitals, research
institutes, etc.; these agencies have not been included in the reform program.
The 185 commercially-oriented companies comprising the public enterprise
sector can be grouped into five categoriess 27 financial PEs, including
banks, specialized credit agencies, insurance companies, and financial hold-
ings (these entities are being aedressed through a separate Financial Sector



- 9 -
Adjustment Loan); the petroleum sector (a holding company plus seven subsidia-
ries); 14 enterprises in basic industry and infrastructure in the Guayana
region, grouped under the Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (CVG); 15 major
PEs involved in the provision of public services (e.g., electricity. water,
telephones, and transportation); and roughly 120 enterprises operating
comuercially in a variety of activities.
20.    The petroleum sector companies are organized under a holding company,
Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA), responsible for petroleum production,
with seven subsidiaries in associated and downstream activities (e.g., natural
gas, petroleum distribution, fertilizers, and petrochemicals). The petro-
chemicals company, in turn, is also a helding company, with equity participa-
tions in a number of joint ventures. PDVSA was reorganized in 1982, and is
considered to be efficiently managed. Its resources are by far the most
important source of Government revenues, accounting for over 702 of taxes in
1988. While Government policy has consistently maintained that petroleum
production--because of its strategic importance--should be Government-owned,
PDVSA has encouraged foreign participation for the last 15 years in the petro-
chemical and fertilizer industries, in the form of joint ventures with its
subsidiaries. Given the size and complexity of the petroleum sector, the
proposed loan has limited itself to nonpetroleum, nonfinancial public
enterprises.
21.    The Guayana-based companies encompass major basic industries, includ-
ings steel (SIDOR); aluminum (VERALUM and ALCASA); iron, bauxite, and coal
mining (FERROMINERA, BAUXIVEN, and CARBOSUROESTE); hydropower (EDELCA); and
other capital-intensive industry and mining operations. They represent the
results of a major development program, begun in the 1970s, to diversify the
Venezuelan economy by tapping the mineral and hydropower resources of this
region. The ambitious investment program in the Guayana region in the late
1970s played a major role in the sharp increase in Government and Governm'nut-
guaranteed external indebtedness. Although well-staffed technically, these
companies have suffered from a development strategy which focussed on self-
sufficiency and expansion, at the expense of production inefficiency. While
some of these companies as exporters have competed in international markets,
all have been protected in the domestic market. Price controls have main-
tained domestic prices at artificially low levels for some (aluminum and iron)
and at artificially high levels for others (steel). The complex three-tier
exchange rate introduced in the early 1980s, together with a subsequent export
subsidy, created further distortions. Import licensing practices provided
certain enterprises with effective monopolies, since in some cases an importer
was required to demonstrate to the producing public enterprise's satisfaction
that a desired product could not be obtained domestically. These distortions
have been substantially eliminated under the structural adjustment and trade
policy programs. In adapting to the new environment, some of these companies
will need to make fundamental changes in approach, shifting to an outward-
oriented strategy, focussing on the bottom-line impact of investment and
production decisions, and relying on private sources for investment financing.
22.    The third major group of non-financial public enterprises (NFPEs)
include public utilities and transport activities in the areas of power gene-
ration and distribution, water supply and sewage, telecominmmications,
shipping, and ports. These enterprises, in which the state has been tradi-
tionally involved, have been subject to extensive Government intervention to



- 10 -
meet social and political objectives. Extremely low prices relative to costs,
salaries inadequate to attract well-qualified staff, substantial overemploy-
ment, and poor accounting and cost recovery systems are typical. Moreover,
the poor quality of basic services and infrastructure, in particular those of
telecommunications, shipping, ports, and electricity distribution, constrains
the product.on and export response to the new incentives.  The introduction of
efficiency criteria, economic pricing and collection policies, professionali-
zation of hiring practices, and improvement of services are critical
objectives for these companies during the next two years.
23.    The fourth group comprises roughly 120 smaller companies operating in
fully commercial competitive sectors (e.g., light manufacturing, agro-
industry, tourism). Many began in the private sector, but over the past 20
years were taken over by the Government for various reasons, often to avoid
closure and the associated loss of jobs for companies that were in difficulty.
These companies can be readily divested and/or liquidated, in view of their
relatively smaller size and absence of public policy implications.
Key Public Enterprise Issues
24.    There are several major issues confronting the Government in the public
enterprise sector. First, inadequate pricing policies have led in the past to
misallocation of resources and have financially crippled key public services.
While most prices were liberalized in 1989, inadequate prices have been a
particularly critical issue for petroleum products, fertilizers, power, water,
and teleconmunications. For the former two products, the maintenance of price
levels at a fraction of export opportunity cost has resulted in serious dis-
tortions in the transportation and agricultural sectors. For power, water and
telecommunications, inadequate tariffs have not only resulted in distorted
incentives, but have also hindered the operations of the public utility com-
panies. In the water company, for example, over 70S of the water produced is
lost, and only a fraction of the 30S billed is actually collected, despite the
fact that a typical bill is only about 15 bolivares (or about 35 cents) a
month.
25.     A second major issue is the negative effect of PEs and their legisla-
tive framework on the productivity of public sector investment and on incen-
tives for productivity change in the private sectors. Public and private
enterprises are not treated equally with regard to their access to financial
resources. Public enterprises operating in commercial sectors in Venezuela
have had relatively easy access to direct Government financing or Governmant
guarantees of external debt. In the past, many sectors were off limits for
private or foreign investment. In addition, public enterprises operating in
certain sectors were protected through restrictions on competition from pri-
vate companies. In some cases, users of public services are required to pay
the same fee whether the service is provided by the PE or not. An exporter,
for example, may have to hire his own crew to load cargo, but is still
required to pay the Instituto Nacional de Puertos (INP) as if INP had
performed the service. Moreover, severe deficiencies in the quality of public
services are viewed as serious constraints to growth by productive sectors.
Particularly serious are inefficiencies and/or competitive barriers in ports
(including customs administration), telephone, shipping and electricity



- 11 -
distribution.. For example, frequent unannounced power stoppages in certain
areas interrupt production and increase factory down time. Over 50X of
telephone calls initiated in Venezuela cannot be completed.
26.     The lack of clearly defined economic objectives and of competitive
pressure on PEs has resulted in extremely low productivity of resource use in
the public sector and highly costly output growth. Over the last five years,
investment by nonfinancial public enterprises (NtmEs) averaged 23.6X of total
investment in the economy, yet NFPE value added has averaged only 6.22 of GDP.
The incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) for nonpetroleum public enter-
prises was about 60 during 1984-88, compared to an overall ICOR for the econo-
my of about 10. Productivity of labor for NPPE8 has also been negative, with
an average of -2.72 annual growth during 1975-88 for those N FEs for which
data are available, compared to average overall productivity growth in the
total economy of 2.3S.
27.    A third major problem is the fiscal burden posed by the NmPEs on the
public sector. NFPEs continue to consume large amounts of Government budge-
tary resources (direct transfers to PEs averaged 142 of annual budgetary
outlays, or 3.42 of GDP over the last six years), yet show little or no profi-
tability (see Annexes 4 and 5 for RmPE macro indicators and consolidated
accounts). Moreover, NRPEs are highly leveraged, with much of their debt
denominated in U.S. dollars (all of it Government-guaranteed). External RIPE
debt totalled US$7.5 billion at year-end 1989 (roughly 302 of total external
public debt), with many enterprises unable to service fully their external
debt.
28.    The complex distortions in the economy during the last decade, as well
as the failure to revalue assets to reflect inflation and devaluation in most
PE accounts, make assessment of PB financial data difficult. Nevertheless, it
is clear that the financial performance of the RIPE sector (excluding petro-
leum) has been disappointing. Aggregate NmE revenue averaged 11.32 of GDP
during the last five years. Average profit margins (excluding Government
transfers) improved steadily from 1984 (-172) to 1988 (+5.02), but declined
again in 1989 (-1.O0). More significantly, during this period, the aggregate
return on total assets remained unsatisfactory, never exceeding 12 annually.
This is a particularly disturbing figure, given the large investment in the PE
sector during the last decade.
29.     With the economic downturn in the mid-1980s, many Pgs became major
budgetary burdens. Over the six-year period (1984-89 inclusive), NPPEs
received Bs 142 billion (in current terms) in direct financial support in the
form of: (i) direct current and capital budgetary transfers, through the
annual Budget Law; (ii) repayment of outstanding PB debt principal and inter-
est by the Ministry of Finance; and (iii) loans and equity contributions from
the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV). Over Bes 105 billion (742) of
this support was provided to five companiess CompaAia An6nima de Administra-
cion y Fomento Electrico (CADAPE); Electrificacifn del Caroni (EDELCA);
Instituto de Obras Sanitarias (INOS); Compaflia An6nima Metro de Caracas
(CANETRO); and Instituto Nacional de Vivienda (INAVI) (see Annex 6 for a
breakdown of transfers by PE, in current and constant Bs).
30.    Roughly half of the Government's financial support to  IPPEs is specifi-
cally for the repayment of external debt service. In addition, the Government



- 12 -
has periodically assumed external debt contracted by Pgs. As part of the
country's debt rescheduling In 1986, the Governrent assumed nearly
US$5 billion In PE debt. Continued servicing of this debt is done directly by
the Treasury and does not figure in the Government's financial support to
public enterprises (nor in the balance sheet of the concerned enterprises).
In addition to financial support through the budget, PEs have received sub-
stantial transfers from the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FPV). The FlV,
which was established in 1975 to channel petroleum earnings toward productive
investments, has provided in the last six years Bs 57 billion in loans and
equity contributions to Pus in its portfolio. Many of the transfers were
provided initially as loans (at below market interest rates), rather than
equity.  However, major debtlequity conversions took place in 1985 (Bs 3.2
billion of EDILCA debt) and 1986 (Bs 6.5 billion of CADAPE debt and Bs 2.6
billion of SIDOR debt). FIV currently holds Bs 126 billion in equity (roughly
US$3 billion at current exchange rates), principally in CADAFE, EDELCA, and
SIDOR, and a further Bs 5.5 billion in outstanding loans.  The return on FIV's
investment (in the form of dividends and interest payments) has averaged only
0.4Z (of FIV's total loans and equity contributions to PEs) over the last five
years.
31.    Indirect financial support has also been provided through loans frcm
the state-owned Banco Industrial, which in the past was used as a conduit for
loans to PEs. Roughly 401 of Banco Industrial's portfolio is considered to be
nonperforming. Moreover, Banco Industrial has US$3.2 billion in Government-
guaranteed external debt, much of it taken over from bankrupt or ailing public
sector companies. The restructuring of this problem bank will be addressed
through the parallel FSAL.
Table 1: NNUFIANCIAL PUILIC ENTEPURIS£
MACOM INDICATWS
1984-8    198?-79    1984- 9
NWPE Valu  dded/GOP (l)         0.7       5.8       6.2
NFPE Invst.wnt/TotUl Invotanwt    22.5   24.4      28.6
NFPE Tren.f ru/Govt. Expendltores   18.9  18.8     18.8
NFPE Trndtere/GDP (l)          8.5        3.8       8.4
NFPE Revenum/GDP (X)           11.9      10.6      11.8
Avg. NFPE ProfTt Margin ()     -7.2       8.0      -2.1
Avg NFPE Return on Asset (%)   -1.5       0.9.    -0.7
NFPE ICOR                                      60.9
Tots I ICOR                                    10.6
* 1987 date only.
The Proposed Adlustment Program
32.    Last year, as part of the structural adjustment program, the Government
took a number of difficult steps designed to provide a basis for stable econo-
mic growth and, in particular, to set the stage for the fundamental reform of
the PE sector. These included: price reforms, with most prices brought to
economic levels; elimination of import monopolies for PEs; a ceiling on FlV's



- 13 -
transfers to public enterprises and a reassessment of its role; adoption of a
privatization program; and initial analyses of individual PEs, with a view to
determining the need for and scope of future restructuring. The program to be
supported by the proposed operation will accelerate these efforts.
33.    The public enterprise reform program is aimed at fundamentally changing
the role of the public sector in the economy. The main goals of the adjust-
ment program are to: create an environment in which PEs are subject to the
same market pressures as private sector firms; provide appropriate regulation
for natural monopolies, whether public or private; transform the non-petroleum
public enterprise sector into a net contributor, rather than a depleter of
national resources; and maximize opportunities for investment and production
for the private sector. Specifically, the proposed adjustment program has the
following objectives:
(i) to continue price adjustments for PE goods and services to economic
levels;
(ii) to rationalize laws, regulations, policies or practices which impede
competition, market discipline, and private investment in key sectors
where public enterprises dominate;
(iii)  to define mutual responsibilities and increase the transparency of the
owner/company relationship between the Central Government and public
enterprises;
(iv) to substantially reduce Government transfers to PEs over the medium
term;
(v) to fundamentally restructure roughly a dozen key public enterprises
providing critical services for economic growth and development, to
achieve efficiency and responsiveness in services; and
(vi) to continue and expand the privatization of public enterprises and
holdings whose ownership no longer fulfills public policy objectives.
34.    The specific elements of the adjustment program and proposed operation
are set out below and summarized in the attached policy matrix (Annex 1). The
proposed tranche release conditions of the loan are a subset of the adjustment
program, and are highlighted by asterisks in the matrix and underlining in the
text below. The Government's Policy Letter, setting out the proposed program
and medium-term objectives, is attached as Annex 2. Satisfactory progress in
implementation of the agreed reform program, as set out in the Policy Letter,
is a condition for second and third tranche release.
Adiustment of Prices for Goods and Services Produced by PBs
35.    Under the structural adjustment program, price controls were eliminated
for most goods and services, public and private. In addition, a phased pro-
gram was introduced to adjust the prices of petroleum products and fertilizers
to export opportunity cost on a phased basis, and other tradeables (iron ore,
steel, aluminum, and petrochemical products) to full export opportunity cost
more rapidly. Earlier this year, decisions were taken to increase the price
of iron ore sold by FERRONINERA (the state-owned iron ore company) to SIDOR



- 14 -
(the state-owned steel company) to its export opportunity cost by end-
September 1990 (iron ore sold to the privately-owned steel company is already
priced at export opportunity cost). In addition, prices for aluminum, steel,
and petrochemical products have been increased to export opportunity costs.
Real tariff increases were also initiated for nontradeables (electricity,
telephone, and natural gas). In the case of electricity, after an initial 302
increase in March 1989, tariffs for residential consumers have been increasing
by 3Z a month, and tariffs for lndustrial consumers have been increasing St a
month.  In the case of telecomiunications, average tariffs are programmed to
increase over 150? in nominal terms by end 1991. In parallel, studies are to
be undertaken to determine the LIMC for natural gas, electricity, and
telecommunications.
36.    Under the proposed operation, prices for goods and services produced by
public enterprises will be further adjusted to economic levels. With respect
to fertilizers, in February 1990 the Government adopted an adjustment program
providing for gradual elimination of the fertilizer subsidy by January 7,
1993. Currently, fertilizers are estimated to be at 65-752 of economic oppor-
tunity cost (i.e., border prices). The adjustment program is expected to
result in adjustment of fertilizer prices to economic opportunity cost by end-
1992. Areement was reached al negotiations that, prior to second tranche.
the Bank and the Borrower would assess progress toward the goal of reaching
economic opportunity cost and agree on a program of additional adjustment if
so warranted. Satisfactory implementation of such a program would be a condi-
tion of third tranche release. Similarly, in the case of petroleum products,
a phased program to reach 100? of export opportunity cost by end-1992 was
agreed. Satisfactory implementation of this program would be a condition for
third tranche release.
37.    A related objective of the program is to ensure that CVG companies
maintain transfer pricing policies which reflect economic opportunity costs,
taking into account the complexities of certain commodity markets, such as
that for the aluminum industry, dominated by a small number of vertically
integrated companies. Current CVG transfer prices for bauxite and alumina are
reasonably close to economic opportunity cost. The transfer price for bauxite
is currently established using as a reference price that of imported bauxite
at the Interalumina port. In the case of alumina, prices are set according to
a formula which establishes a level between the international spot price and
the price of long-term alumina supply contracts at the Interalminsa port.
Under the program, a study to determine more precisely economic opportunity
costs for bauxite and alumina will be undertaken and price adjustments
adopted, if necessary, by early 1992.
38.   With respect to non-tradeables, under the proposed operation, it is
expected that the LRMC studies will be completed, agreement will be reached on
a plan for adjusting prices to reflect LRMCs, and that appropriate price
adjustments will be implemented for electricity, natural gas, and telephone
service. Electricity prices are expected to fully reflect the LRMC within a
four-year period. Specifically, as a condition for second tranche release.
based on the preliminary results of the LRMC study, agreement will be reached
on a strategy and timetable for further adjustments in electricity prices, if
needed. Satisfactory implementation of this program would be a condition for
third tranche release.  Price adjustments for telecommunications, based on
LRMCs, will be addressed in the context of the restructuring of the



- 15 -
telecommunications sector (para. 66). Under the operation, a price adjustment
program for natural gas, based on economic opportunity cost, will also be
defined by early 1992.
Improvins the Competitive hnviroment. Market Discipline. and
Private Xnmestmet
39.    Over the last 10 years, the policy and legislative framework has effec-
tively precluded competition and stifled private investment--both domestic and
foreign. Large commercial public enterprises have been protected from compe-
tition through a combination of tariff barriers, import monopolies exercised
by public enterprises, price controls, and constraints to private investment.
Several areas of the economy were reserved for the public sector or nationals,
either through legislation, regulation, or practice. Under existing legisla-
tion, private ownership of petroleum and iron ore production is prohibited, as
well as foreign participation in the insurance and financial sectors. Foreign
investment was also prohibited in a number of other sectors, including public
utilities, domestic transportation, and consulting services, and limited to a
minority share in domestic trade, administration of public concessions, export
services, basic industries, garbage collection, and postal systems (the latter
restrictions derived from past requirements of the Andean Pact). These poli-
cies were intended to promote self-sufficiency in basic commodities and to
maximize control of the economy's main productive base, but encouraged econo-
mic inefficiency and hampered growth. Foreign investment was at extremely low
levels in the first half of the decade, amounting to an annual average of
US$164.5 million during 1981-85. Moreover, 70Z of this amount was in import-
protected industries geared toward domestic markets. The only Latin American
country with lower foreign investment during the same period was Bolivia.
40.    In contrast, the new Government's development strategy emphasizes the
opening of the economy to international competition and the expansion of
private investment. The Government is committed to ensuring a level playing
field* for both public and private enterprises. In addition, it intends to
reduce its role in the productive sectors (excluding petroleum), limiting its
role to investment in social and economic infrastructure, while leaving the
financing of expansioz'o in commercial capacity to private sources.
41.    Some measures have already been adopted to stimulate competition and
private investment. Elimination of import controls under the trade reform
program increased competition for several PEs producing goods for the domestic
market (e.g., steel products). Last year, a number of steps were taken to
simplify the operating environment for the private sector. Requirements for
prior Government approval of private investment projects were virtually
eliminated in 1989. To encourage foreign investment, the Government issued a
decree that same year which established an auction mechanism for debt-equity
swaps and opened up aluminum, mining, and metallurgy to foreign iL estors. In
addition, in February 1990, the Ministry of Finance issued a decree which
opens virtually all sectors for foreign investment and eliminates remaining
discriminatory practices against foreign investors. The decree contains
revisions in three areas: (i) opening up sectors now closed to foreign
investment--in particular telecommunications, export services, garbage collec-
tion, postal, and consulting services; (ii) eliminating current restrictions
on foreign investment in existing assets; and (iii) significantly liberaliz-
ing or eliminating current restrictions on profit distribution, reinvestment,



- 16 -
and remittance. The only sectors currently not open to majority private
investment are petroleum and Iron ore production. Foreign investment is
presently precluded in only the financial sector and Spanish-language news-
papers. It is expected, however, that the financial sector would also become
open to foreign investment, within the framework of the financial sector
adjustment program. Moreover, the investment promotion agency (SIEX) will be
restructured, to facilitate foreign investment. At the same time, tax reform
legislation is before Congress which would eliminate current discriminatory
tax treatment of foreign investors.
42.    In the context of the proposed Private Sector Restructuring Project,
planned for FY91, other areas of the legal and regulatory framework for the
private sector targetted for review in 1990-91 includes a) present bankruptcy
law and receivership regulations, to determine if they pose inappropriate
barriers to the restructuring or liquidation of enterprises in distress; and
b) public procedures and administration regulating comemrce. At present, the
first two areas do not appear to pose serious bottlenecks to private sector
expansion, although there may be room for improvements and simplification.
43.    In contrast, labor legislation which provides heavy protection to the
industrial labor force could be a constraint to the success of the economic
reform program and to the restructuring and efficiency of public and private
enterprises. Revised legislation has been under discussion in Congress for
over a year; it maintains and in some cases strengthens the emphasis on pro-
tection in existing legislation. While existing or new legislation under
consideration will not impose a major obstacle to public enterprise restruc-
turing and privatization at the onset of the program, it could constrain the
sustained success as well as the international competitiveness of the economy
over the medium term. For this reason, as part of economic work planned for
FY91, the Bank would undertake a review of existing labor markets and the
Impact of proposed legislation on their efficiency. This work would also
serve as a major input for preparation of the proposed Private Sector
Restructuring Project.
44.    An additional priority in maximizing competition involves elimination
of the laws, regulations, policies and practices which are restrictive to
competition and trade in the shipping, telecommunications, and postal services
sectors. In shipping, the state-owned Compatiia Venezolana de Navegaci6n
(CAVN), together with foreign members of the various 'conferences' and a
limited, though possibly increasing, number of outsiders, provides general
cargo ship capacity. CAVN enjoys protection through the Merchant Marine Law
('Ley de Marina Mercante'), which requires that private shippers send 50  of
their cargo on Venezuelan ships. Furthermore, as a matter of policy, PEs are
required to patronize CAVN.  If CAVN does not have the capacity, which is
frequently the case with respect to the Guayaha companies, it charters other
ships on their behalf. The latter activity has become one of the chief
sources of profit for CAVN, which has little incentive to minimize costs to
the users or to provide a timely service. In effect, the current regime
provides CAVN with control of the shipping market.
45.    These problems pose constraints for export expansion as well as
increasing effective Import protection. They have been subject to active
debate in the Venezuelan press in recent months, with strong criticism from
both public and private enterprises. To address these problems, as a



- 17 -
condition for second tranche release, the Government vill review the legal and
regulatory framework fcr shibping (including the cargo reserve requirement and
the policy that PEs must patronize the state-owned shipping line) and, on the
basis of the review, adopt measures-^_or submit legislation to Congress if
necessary--to promote competition, in a manner satisfactory to the Bsank. In
the meantime, actions are being taken to reverse misapplication of existing
laws and regulations. For example, automatic waivers of the cargo reserve
requirement are being granted to exporters 48 hours after their request, and
enforcement of leasing limits on national shipping lines has been improved.
Moreover, waivers of mandatory shipping requirements for public enterprises
will be granted to the full extent legally permissible.
46.    The telecommmnications company (CANTV) also enjoys monopoly powers with
regard to telecommunications services, while the postal service (IPOSTEL)
taxes private delivery services the same fee it would require if it were
performing the service itself. Under the p oposed operation, barriers to
competition arising from the legal framework and practices of the telecommuni-
cations and postal services sector would be reviewed, with the objective of
increasing private sector participation and reducing barriers to competition.
It is expected that any necessary legal changes in these sectors would be
submitted to Congress ty mid-1991.
Legal, Financial, and Institutional Framework Governitg the
Relationship Between P18 and the Central Government
47.    In the 19609, 702 of public investment Was carried out by Ministries or
centralized agencies and financed through the Government budget. In the
subsequent two decades, the structure of public capital spending altered
dramatically, with PEs accounting for over 70S in the 19809. The legal and
regulatory framework have not kept pace with the increasing economic impor-
tance of PEs during the last 20 years. While state-owned enterprises in
Venezuela have more operating autonomy than in many developing countries
(being incorporated under the Company Law), the accretion of legal, regula-
tory, and administrative changes during the last two decades has resulted in
unclear and diffuse accountability relationships, causing substantial delays
in decision-making and little effective control of PE policy. The weakness of
Central Government Ministries and agencies has also undermined tutelary
relationships and the formation of sectoral and macroeconomic policy.
48.    In addition, Government financial support--both directly through budge-
tary transfers and indirectly through FIV loans/equity and guaranteed borrow-
ings under the Public Credit Law--was often provided without adequate economic
and financial justification, clear objectives, or accountability for financial
results. In addition, in the past, public enterprise investment projects (and
the associated financing) were generally approved on a case-by-cave basis,
without adequate integration into the Government's overall public investment
and borrowing program.
49.     Under the adjustment program, a study will be undertaken of the legal.
financial, and institutional relationships between PEs and the Central Govern-
ment, with a view to clarifying accountability and reporting relationships and
making recommendations on appropriate legal and institutional reforms. A
major objective would be the introduction of a limited performance agreement
system for those PEs with a major financial impact on Government or whose



- 18 -
services are critical for economic growth. The performance agreements would
set out accords between the Central Government and the PEs concerning the
enterprise's overall strategy, performance targets, borrowing, investment and
dividend policy, and Government financial support (if any) for agreed public
service functions. Terms of reference agreed during negotiations for the
study are attached as Annex 9. The study would be completed and an action
plan to clarify the PE/Government relationship adopted (including institution
of a performance agreement system) by mid-1991. Any required legal or regula-
tory changes would be enacted or submitted to Congress for approval by early
1992.  At least 10 draft performance agreements (based on approved restruc-
turing programs or for enterprises receiving Government financial support for
public policy objectives) would be prepared by early 1992.
50.    Over the medium term, it is the Government's objective to substantially
reduce transfers to PEs (with the possible exception of targetted subsidies in
support of well-defined public policy objectives). In some cases, the Govern-
ment may continue to finance the repayment of an enterprise's external debt,
primarily where this has been specified in an approved restructuring program
and in accordance with clear performance targets for the company. Within this
broad policy framework, it is necessary to differentiate between one-time
costs associated with restructuring (which are expected to increase in the
short term) and traditional operating and capital transfers to PEs. For those
PBs being restructured during the next three years, the Government will likely
have to finance a portion of the unavoidable existing liabilities associated
with restructuring, such as severance pay, unfunded pension liabilities, and
settlement of guaranteed debts to third parties. These costs will be defined
within the context of each individual restructuring program. These extraor-
dinary costs are expected to take place during 1990-93. Thereafter, the
restructured enterprises are expected to be financially self-sufficient in
their operations (without recourse to budgetary transfers) and able to finance
their investments from internally-generated funds and commercial financing.
51.    For those remaining Pie not targetted for restructuring during the PERL
implementation period, it is the Government's objective to rationalize capital
transfers and phase out operating transfers to them over a three-year period,
with a target reduction of one-third in 1991 and two-thirds in 1992. The
operating premise is that all transfers must be justified, linked to clear
public policy objectives, and reduced wherever possible. Moreover, as noted
in the Policy Letter, the Government intends to concentrate its financial
support to social and economic infrastructure, leaving the financing of expan-
sions in commercial capacity to private sources. Transfers will only be
considered if: an enterprise is selected for restructuring (in which cace the
level of financial support would be based on an agreed restructuring program);
and/or the transfer is targetted for a well-defined public policy objective.
To ensure that these guidelines are enforced, the Government will review all
transfers and identify, before approval of the 1991 Budgets (i) those enter-
prises for which transfers will be phased out over a three-year period,
commencing in 1991; (ii) those enterprises which are likely to continue to
receive transfers over the medium term for public policy reasons; in these
cases, performance agreements will be signed by the end of the first quarter
of 1991 between the Government and the enterprise, setting out the level of
Government financial support and the enterprise's expected performance
targets; and (iii) those enterprises which require fundamental restructuring,
in which case they will be added to the restructuring &;enda and restructuring



- 19 -
programs approved by early 1992. Submission of a satisfactors Blan in this
regard, including phasing out of transfers to PEs not sub1ect to restructuri.t
programs or performance agreements, is a condition for second tranche release.
Adherence to the agreed plan is a condition of third tranche release.
52.    Tie objective of financial self-sufficiency for the PE sector requires
not only substantially reducing direct financial support to public enterprises
over the medium term, but also limiting Government guarantees for new PE
borrowings. Currently Government guarantees are not legally required for PE
borrowings (though Congressional aprroval is), but have been universally
sought by lenders given the risks associ*eted with the Venezuelan economy.
Over the medium term, it is expected that an increasing number of PEs will be
able to attract commercial non-guaranteed financing as a result of the Govern-
ment's restructuring efforts and continued macroeconomic adjustment measures.
In this context, it is the Government's medium-term objective (reflected in
the Policy Letter) to limit new loan guarantees, to the extent possible, to
those borrowings which form an integral part of approved restructuring pro-
grams or for PEs providing key public services.
53.   An additional issue which needs to be addressed is the accumulation of
inter-company arrears, as well as arrears in payments by Government ministries
tc PBEs for the provision of key services (water, electricity, and telephones).
These arrears create financial management difficulties for several companies
(particularly CANTV, EDELCA, INOS, and CADAFE), though the cross-debts problem
is by no means as serious as has occurred in many other countries. Previous
attempts in 1985 and 1988 to eliminate cross-arrears through the issuance of
long-term Government bonds did not provide the necessary liquidity to elimi-
nate the arrears nor address the underlying problems. The Government is
currently identifying all major arrears (over Bs 200 million or roughly US$5
million at current exchange rates), and will prepare a plan by mid-1991 to
settle these arrears (on a phased basis if necessary) and to introduce mea-
sures to prevent their recurrence. The Government intends to implement the
necessary actions to settle the arrears by early 1992. In addition to this
program, priority enterprises in financial difficulty will be restructured to
address any underlying problems and prevent a recurrence of arrears.
54.    The Role of the Fondo de Inversiones (FIV).  The FIV was established in
the mid-1970s with the intention of creating a strong financial entity that
would allocate, in an independent and technically-sound fashion, an earmarked
portion of the petroleum surplus (52 of the Government's oil and natural gas
income). Since the Government's industrial development strategy in the '70s
focussed on public sector development of basic industries and extraction of
natural resources, FIV's role consisted mainly of the financing of power,
steel, aluminum, mining, ports, and shipping projects. Initially, FIV provid-
ed financing to PEs mainly in the form of bolivares-denominated long-term
loans, with exceptional cases where minority equity contributions were made by
FIV in addition to debt financing. While the technical capacity of FIV's
management and staff in the evaluation of investment decisions was generally
recognized, political interventions overrode its decision-making process in
the early and mid-1980.. Consequently, in the mid-'80s, when some enter-
prises showed signs of financial distress in the wake of depressed conmodity
prices and debt-heavy financing, most of FIV's loans were converted into
equity participations. By end-1988, FIV had converted about 952 of its PE
loan portfolio (representing over 752 of its total assets) into non-income



- 20 -
generating equity. Moreover, FlV continued to participate in the financing of
new PR investment projects and assist in external debt servicing. FIV, conse-
quently, has produced an overall financial deficit since 1986. These deficits
were financed in part by the t-isfer of earmarked oil revenues; but,
increasingly, they were finances through utilization of FIV's external
reserves, creating a serious drain on the organization's capital.
55.    Given the changing economic and fiscal situation, the Government recog-
nized the need to fundamentally revise the role and objectives of the FIV.
First, new manasement was brought in and ceilings were established on the
level of FlV's transfers to PEs during 1989, while new management reviewed
FIV's operations.  Second, the Government clarified a long-stinding ambiguity
about the relative roles of the FIV and the Corporaci6n Venezolana de Gusyana
(CVG), by issuing a decree providing the latter with a holding company role
with respect to the Guayana companies. The decree required that part of FIV's
portfolio be transferred to CVG, so as to provide it with a majority share of
the relevant enterprises. In late 1989, the Government decided in principle
that the FIV would withdraw from direct lending and investments, and redirect
its primary efforts towards privatization (as the secretariat to the Privati-
zation Commissica).  A second-ier development banking function is also a
possibility. Legislation formalizing these changes was recently submitted to
Congress. The proposed legislation provides for FIV's withdrawal from direct
lending and investment, after meeting its existing obligations, and the reduc-
tion of the transfer of petroleum taxes to FIV during the next five years.
Subject to Congressional approval, restructuring of FIV's organization and
functions is expected to begin in 1990.
56.    Reorganization of CVG. The Government has also taken steps to reor-
ganize CVG, to transform it into a holding company which would coordinate the
majority Government-owned mining, industrial, and power enterprises located in
Guayana. This will give formal recognition to what has essentially been CVG's
de facto role, and will provide an important coordinating mechanism in a
developmentally and environmentally strategic region. The precise reporting
relationships and responsibilities of CVG vis-a-vis its companies have been
defined to allow the boards and management of the individual companies full
autonomy on operational matters, while allowing CVG to play its strategic
coordinating role. In this context, CYG's holding company responsibilities
will includes appointment of the president and public sector board members
(except for one member to be appointed by the FIV) for its companies; approval
of annual business plans and investment programs; monitoring of company
performanceloperations; definition of policies and guidelines to be utilized
by the respective company boards in establishing marketing policies and
setting prices for their goods and services. Financial relationships between
CVY companies will be on a commercial basis, with transfer prices of
tradeables set at economic opportunity costs.
57.    In recognition of the important environmental issues in the Guayana
region, a new Vice-Presidency with responsibility for environmental issues, as
well as science and technology, will be established in CVG. The Environmental
Division within the Vice-Presidency will promote enforcement of the Govern-
ment' s environmental policy within the region and will identify environmental
problems and work with the environmental departments of individual enterprises
to minimize the negative environmental impact of their operations.



- 21 -
Restructurfin4 of Priorty hterDrises
58.   A major focus of the public enterprise reform program will be the
design and implementation of restructuring programs for priority PE8,
focussing on those enterprises currently receiving large transfers from the
Central Government or posing bottlenecks to production. The agreed restruc-
turing programs will form the basis for performance agreements between these
enterprises and the Government. The overall objeCtives of the restructuring
programs will be the followings expand the role of market discipline in the
sector in which the PE operates, through orderly minimization of barriers to
private competition; increase the efficiency of and provide rational pricing
policy for critical public services; and afford opportunities for private
sector development and expansion. As an integral part of each restructuring
plan, the constraints arising from the legal and regulatory environment and
the sector policy would be addressed, and Congressional approval sought where
necessary. Each restructuring program will also include establishment of
economic tariff and/or pricing policies. The restructuring programs will be
as comprehensive as necessary, including-for commercial activities an assess-
ment of the desirability of privatizing all or part of an enterprise's activi-
ties, equity and/or assets, aimed at ensuring competitiveness and financial
self-sufficiency. Generally, Government financial support for restructuring
will be limited to settlement of unavoidable liabilities (e.g.. severance pay,
unfunded pension liabilities, or external debts) and not involve financing of
new investments, nor future commitments or liabilities. Moreover, it is
expected that, once restructured, a commercial enterprise would be financially
self-sufficient in its operations.
59.    The Government has established an inter-ministerial Restructuring
Commission to: coordinate the overall restructuring program; establish the
Government's annual restructuring agenda and timetable for preparation and
review of restructuring programs; review all restructuring proposals; and make
recommendations to the full Cabinet. The Restructuring Coumission, chaired by
the Minister of the Central Office for Coordination and Planning (CORDIPLAN)
of the Presidency, is composed of the same Government ministries as
represented on the parallel Interministerial Privatization Commission (see
below), with an additional representative from the Advisory Commission on
Reform of Public Administration (COPRE). Close coordination between the
Privatization and Restructuring Commissions is assured through similar
Ministry representation and the fact that the respective Executive Secretaries
(FIV for Privatization, CORDIPLAN for Restructuring) attend both commission
meetings. Technical working groups have been formed for six PEs (INP, CADAFE,
CAVN, CANMV, SIDOR, and INOS), consisting of representatives of CORDIPLAN,
FIV, the Boards of the relevant enterprise, and the ministrylsupervising
entity as appropriate.
60.   A group of 8 major PEs has been initially selected by the Restructuring
Commission for restructuring (including possible elements of privatization):
CADAFE, INOS, INP, CAVN, CANTV, SIDOR, IPOSTEL, and INAVI. To ensure that the
restructuring process is extended to other priority enterprises during the
PERL implementation period, a second group of three to five enterprises satis-
factory to the Bank would be formally selected for restructuring by mid-1991.
During the next two years, restructuring programs will be prepared and ap-
proved for all of the above enterprises. Substantial technical work has
already been undertaken in identifying the major issues confronting CADAPE,



- 22 -
INP, INOS, CAVN, and IPOSTEL. Key elements of restructuring programs, calling
for fundamental changes, have been agreed for INP, CADAFE, and INOS, and are
summarized in annexes to the Policy Letter. Adherence to the targets and
timetable for implementation of the agreed restructuring programs for INP,
CADAFE, and INOS is a eondition of second tranche release.
61.   In addition to these enterprises (INP, INOS, CADAFE), Cabinet approval
of restructuring programs, satisfactory to the Bank. for SIDOR, CANTV, and
CAVN is a condition of second tranche release: adherence to the targets and
timetables for implementation of the agreed restructuring Programs for these
enterprises is a condition of third tranche release. Finally, in addition to
these 6 PEa, Cabinet approval of restructuring programs, satisfactory to the
Bank, for five additional PEs is a condition of third tranche release. Each
restructuring program would include, inter alia, the definition of monitori-
able targets to be incorporated into subsequent performance agreements. Full
implementation of all the restructuring programs is expected to be completed
by 1993. Key indicators for major enterprises considered to be candidates for
restructuring under the proposed operation are set out in Table 2.
hl* 2 nawmI R 0 E T TOOE
(Per-.n  of total   S   eweluding petroleum)
nterprie  LInvestment Transfr. Aeaet. EKtern.l Emp@*eea Return on
Debt      Aosete(S)
DOS        4.2  12.6  9.1   0.0   9.1  -7 9
zwl0.2   17   1.8  6.2  ?72  -7.1
CADAPE    12.2   21 .6  10.6  2. 1  0.7  -08.
CI       .22     10 .8  11.8  21.  10.7  -8.5
CAN        0.0   0.0   0. a  0.0  0. 8  10 .8
CAIEV      a.a   1.8   8 .1  8.4  11.8  6.9
iECA (i)  10.?   10 4  12 2  12   1.6   1.0
MPOMT     0.0   1.1  0.8  0.0   4.6  -2,0.9
1MWt') (2 0.0   8.9  0.1  0.0   0.9 -494.0
ALCAA   )(l)   12.0  2.6  2.8 0 880  2.0  860
aiSiE)(t)  -     1202.1   2.8   8 .   0.  1 0   0.8
0.    4.1  9.    0.1t  4 .6  -0.0
1.8   0.0  1.1   1.1   1 .0  8.4
1.2   0.0  0. 4  0.0   1.4   6.
- 0 .0  0.6  0 .0   8.2  -4.8
- 1.2   02    .0   0 .1  0.0
TotaI aboe PE    78.1 7l.9  74.0   ?7.1  71.1  -1.1
(I of alI NFbE)
iNte: P renta  baid an 199 deX for tr ndfra and inW intant,
190d dat *or external dbt. nd 1967 data for ara.t
(t  financial restructuring undera
pio pesible r*tructuring candidates
goilmin priatied
62.   IMP (Ports) (see Attachment 1 of Policy Letter).  Operation of the
public ports in Venezuela has long been regarded as costly and very ineffi-
cient. Given the new outward-looking development strategy of the Government,
a fundamental restructuring of the state-owned ports company (INP) is essen-
tial to promote increased trade and exports. The Government recently approved
a far-reaching restructuring program for INP, which calls for the dissolution
(or transformation) of the existing company, revision of existing labor union
contracts, and lay-offs of excess staff. A new regulatory authority would be
instituted to maintain basic port infrastructure and to manage a new conces-
sion system based on leasing port facilities to private operators, who would
manage the cargo loading operations. Management contracts and leaseltransfer
arrangements for certain ports are also under consideration. Adherence to the
targets and timetable for implementation of the agreed INP restructuring



- 23 -
program is a condition of second tranche release, with key sonitoriable
measures involvings establishment of a new regulatory framework, revision of
the labor contracts, workforce reductions, and design of a concession system.
63.    CADAFP  (electricity) (see Attachment 2 of Policy Letter).  CADAFE is
responsible for electricity distribution for almost all the country, with the
exception of the major cities. Its major problems include an overcentralized
and oversized administrative structure, dominant labor unions, inadequate
tariffs, and a lack of coordination with other entities operating in the power
sector. The Government has already prepared a restructuring plan for CADAPE,
with the assistance of consultants, which proposes to establish one holding
company with four regional distribution companies, one generation and trans-
mission company, and one or more companies providing non-power related servi-
ces (e.g., maintenance and computer services). Agreement has been reached on
the broad directions of the restructuring program; adherence to the targets
and timetable for implementation of the a8reed restructuring program is a
condition for second tranche release. While this plan goes in the right
direction, it is difficult to justify maintenance of a holding company beyond
a short transitional period. In addition, given the size of the regional
company, the need for establishing separate services companies is not clear.
Accordingly, as a condition for second tranche release, an evaluation will be
made of the role of the holding company and an action plan prepared, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for further reforms to decentralize CADAFE. The restruc-
turing of CADAPE raises broader questions about the overall institutional
organization of the power sector. These issues will be addressed in the
context of the preparation of a Power Distribution loan currently under prepa-
ration for FY92. The Government intends to prepare a proposal by May 1992 for
reform of sector organization, regulation and coordination.
64.    IOS (Water) (see Attachment 3 of Policy Letter).  The state-owned
water company is a third case requiring fundamental restructuring: service is
inefficient and costly; water losses and billing arrears are unacceptably
high; and the company incurs substantial operating losses. Agreement has been
reached on a restructuring plan for INOS calling for: the dissolution (or
transformation) of the existing company; replacement with a regulatory/moni-
toring agency; establishment of publicly- or privately-operated municipal or
regional water companies; renegotiation of labor contracts; and substantial
workforce reductions. Adherence to the targets and timetable for implementa-
tion of the agreed INOS restructuring program is a condition of second tranche
release, with key monitoriable measures involvings establishment of a new
regulatory framework; establishment of new regionalilocal water companies;
introduction of adequate water tariffs and a system for periodic adjustments;
and workforce reductions and revision of labor contracts.
65.    SIDOR (Steel).  The steel company was established to serve a highly-
protected domestic market. With trade liberalization, the company will have
to fundamentally alter its product mix, marketing strategy, and operations to
ensure competitiveness and financial viability. While some preliminary tech-
nical analysis on the possible restructuring of the company has been under-
taken, several steps would be taken in the next 12 months to prepare a final
restructuring program. As a key step in this process, an agreement between
the Restructuring Commission and SIDOR would be signed, setting out the strat-
egy for finalization of a restructuring program. In addition, agreement was
reached during negotiations on terms of reference for a restructuring study,



- 24 -
including a review of SIDOR's proposed investment program (see Annex 10). The
review would utilize international expertise in the steel sector and would be
completed by July 1990. Pending the review of the company's proposed invest-
ment program and its consistency with the current focus on competitiveness and
financial self-sufficiency, there is a freeze on Government guarantees for new
investment financing. A complete restructuring program (satisfactory to the
Bank), based on a market assessment and taking into account the results of the
investment program review, would be designed in 1990 and approved by the
Cabinet as a condition of second tranche release. Adherence to the targets/
timetable for implementation of the agreed restructuring program is a
condition for third tranche release.
66.    CANT? (Telecommunications).  CANTV was granted a monopoly under the
*Ley de Telecomunicaciones' on July 6, 1965 for all telecommunications servi-
ces to the public. This law expires in July 1990, and a Government review of
the future of the telecommunications sector is currently in process. The
major problems of the service include: low quality, resulting from congestion
in the local exchanges; unsatisfied demand; a distorted tariff structure (with
long-distance and international tariffs subsidizing local services); inade-
quate services for the business subscribers which generate 50Z of CANTV's
revenues; and unbalanced staffing, with a shortfall of technical personnel and
excessive administrative staff. The Government is considering the restructur-
ing of CANTV into one or more companies whose shares could eventually be sold,
and the creation of a new regulatory framework for the sector. To design a
restructuring plan with these objectives in mind, a consultant would be con-
tracted in the next two months to: recommend appropriate organizational and
financial structure for the new company(ies), including planning procedures,
information systems, personnel policies and manpower plans; prepare an imple-
mentation plan; propose a regulatory structure and a definition of its func-
tions; and propose the legal framework. Terms of reference agreed to during
negotiations for these tasks are attached as Annex 11. Cabinet approval of a
restructuring program, satisfactory to the Bank, for CANTV is a condition for
second tranche release, and adherence to the timetable for implementing the
greed program is a condition of third tranche release.
67.    3DZLCA (Electricity Generation).  EDELCA, the state-owned company
responsible for electricity generation, faced financial problems associated
primarily with the revaluation of its large foreign debt. While not formally
selected for restructuring, an agreement was signed earlier this year to
compensate the company for the financial cost associated with the revaluation
of its foreign debt. The agreement provides that EDELCA will present to the
Government a comprehensive adjustment plan for the period 1991-93, covering
the following aspects: a revised organizational structure; tariff structure
adjustments; operational costs; and project and budget control systemt. This
plan will be presented and approved by end-1990. The adjustment plan would
reflect the Government's goal of setting tariffs according to LRMC principles
within four years. Given that continued Government transfers will be neces-
sary to support EDELCA's investment program, a performance agreement will be
signed and updated periodically to ensure efficient operations.
Privatization Protram
68.   As part of the broader economic reform program, the Government launched
a privatization program, not only to reduce the size and scope of the public



- 25 -
sector, but also to attract new capital, management, and technology into
economically viable enterprises and broaden ownership through privatization.
The initial group of enterprises targetted for privatization includes firms in
the financial, tourism, and light manufacturing sectors which are operating in
competitive markets, not fulfilling any public policy objectives, and thought
to be financially viable (and hence attractive to investors). The Govern-
ment's strategy is similar to that of Mexico (and many other countries), which
began its privatization process with smaller holdings, unburdened by major
financial and labor problems, and, hence, were easier to privatize. While
this initial group of enterprises represented a modest percentage of total
assets in the public enterprise sector, the scope of the privatization program
is being progressively broadened to include larger enterprises. Recently, the
Government announced that three larger companies--VIASA (Venezuela's interna-
tional airline), AEROPOSTAL (the state-owned domestic airline), and INN
(state-owned racetracks)--would be analyzed for possible privatization.
Moreover, as discussed above, the Government is moving in parallel to restruc-
ture roughly a dozen major PEs, and many of these restructuring programs are
expected to involve varying degrees of privatization of activities and assets.
69.     The program is being managed and coordinated by the Inter-Ministerial
Privatization Commission established in July 1989. The Privatization Conmmis-
sion is chaired by the President of FIV (Ministerial rank) and is composed of
the Ministers of CORDIPLAN, Finance (Hacienda), and Development (Fomento), the
Attorney General, and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce
(FEDECAMARAS), and the labor unions (CTV). The Privatization Commission has
already approved the privatization of roughly 100 holdings, including: 35
hotels and tourist facilities; 3 banks; 6 cement companies; 22 agro-industrial
holdings (sugar, dairy, etc); 2 chemical/plastics firms; 4 textile companies;
6 mechanicalimetallurgical firms; and 17 property holdings.
70.    Some of these privatization initiatives are well advanced.  With
respect to the cement companies, discussions are underway with existing
private shareholders for the purchase of FIV's shares in two of the three
companies. Existing shareholders have the right of first refusal, and it is
expected that they will purchase the Government's shares. Valuations have
been completed for the three Government-owned banks (Occidental, Rep6blica,
and Italo-Venezolano), and a sales strategy has been designed for the Banco
Occidental, which would involve a combination of public share issue, preferen-
tial shares to employees, and private placement to institutional investors.
Finally, with respect to the hotels, the portfolio has been divided into five
blocks and firms have been hired to undertake valuations of each block of
assets.
71.     By mid-1991, valuations will be completed for at least 10 additional
holdings. As a condition of third tranche release, the Government will have
brought to point of sale (i.e valuations and other preparatory actions com-
pleted) holdin&s with an asset value of at least US$150 million. The program
will be implemented on the basis of the following principles:
(i) enterprises/assets will be priced realistically, to reflect market value;
(ii) no protection or special privileges will be granted to purchasers; and
(iii) no Government financing or loan guarantees will be provided to
purchasers.



- 26 -
Social snd Financial ImPact of PR Reform Proram
72.     While the reform program for public enterprises will strengthen both
the public finances and the economic base, its impact will be painful during
the initial years of the program. Restructuring of major enterprises--
particularly in the cases of INOS. CAVN, INP, CADAFE, and SIDOR--will require
substantial workforce reductions numbering in the thousands. While it is
hoped that this labor segment will eventually be reabsorbed by other economic
activities, the initial impact will create hardship for many groups, particu-
larly difficult after a year of economic recession. Moreover, the termination
of a substantial part of the highly unionized labor force will result in
costly severance payments, amounting in the case of some companies (i.e., INP)
to several hundred million U.S. dollars. A key element in every restructuring
process will be the need to negotiate with powerful labor unions. In several
cases, discussions with the unions are already underway. More generally, the
labor union federation (CTV) i3 formally represented on the Privatization
Commission, and has also requested formal membership on the recently-
established Restructuring Commission.
73.    In addition to the potential social impact, restructuring for some
companies will require recapitalization, and the Central Government will
likely be required to take over some additional Government-guaranteed debt in
this process. As a result, the initial budgetary impact of restructuring may
well be negative, in order to finance the one-time restructuring costs. It is
expected that pension and severance payments alone will amount to about
US$700-800 million during the next three years. However, over the medium
term, Government transfers are expected to be substantially reduced. More-
over, once restructured, enterprises would be expected to be financially self-
sufficient in operations (without further budgetary transfers) and able to
finance their investments from internally-generated funds and commercial
financing.
74.    If the reform program is to be successful, it is critical that the
Government be responsive to its initial negative social and financial impact.
One step that has been taken in this direction is the adoption in 1989 of a
national unemployment insurance program. In addition, as part of each
restructuring/privatization program for large enterprises, an explicit analy-
sis of its social and financial impact will be undertaken and an appropriate
allocation will be included in the annual Government Budget to address these
costs. One important function of the Restructuring Commission will be to
assess the global impact of the adjustment process, with a view to pacing the
most traumatic restructuring steps. It will also be critical to have the
cooperation of the affected labor unions, since many restructuring programs
will result in effective loss of union power (INP, CANTV, INOS, and others).
Each restructuring plan will explicitly address the implications for labor,
including the appropriate level of pension and severance payments. In addi-
tion, a program of retraining and redeployment of staff made redundant by the
restructuring process, in both the public and private sectors, would be
designed, under the aegis of the proposed Private Sector Restructuring project
currently planned for FY91.



_ 27 -
PART III - TEE PROPOSED LOAN
75.   Loan History.  During preparation and negotiation of the SAL and the
TPL, it was agreed that a Bank loan to support further reform in the public
enterprise sector would be prepared. Preparation missions took place in
September and November 1989; these were supported by a number of sectoral
missions in the areas of telecommunications, steel, energy, ports and ship-
ping, and water supply between September 1989 and March 1990. The loan was
appraised in March 1990. Negotiations began in May 1990, and the Venezuelan
negotiating team was led by Eng. Fernando Martinez M6ttola. Supplementary
loan data are provided in Annex 8.
Loan Amount and Tranching
76.    The proposed loan would be for US$350 million.  The IDB has indicated a
commitment in principle to provide parallel financing for the proposed opera-
tion, in an amount up to US$300 million. Loan disbursement would be linked to
satisfactory progress in the reform program. Due to the phased nature of the
program, it is proposed that loan disbursements be made in three separate
tranches over a two-year period. In addition, the disbursement profile
(excluding the debt set-aside) would be back-loaded, with first, second, and
third tranches of US$70 million, US$85 million, and US$107.5 million, respec-
tively. The first tranche would become available at effectiveness, and the
second and third upon fulfillment of specific conditions for tranche release
(see below). In addition, 25Z of the loan amount (US$87.5 million) would be
allocated to finance a debt reduction program, and would be available upon
loan effectiveness and approval of the debt reduction program by the Bank. If
the debt set-aside has not been disbursed by February 28, 1991, the Government
may request that the Bank reallocate the set-aside amount (US$87.5 million) to
finance imports, with disbursements distributed equally across the three tran-
ches. In addition, up to US$70 million would be available to finance eligible
inputs purchased after March 31, 1990. The Closing Date of the proposed loan
is June 30, 1993.
Loan Conditions
77.    The specific condition of loan effectiveness is maintenance of a macro-
economic framework consistent with the objectives of the reform program.
78.    The following are specific conditions for second tranche release:
(a)    maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives
of the reform program;
(b)    satisfactory progress in implementation of the agreed reform program,
as set out in the attached Policy Letter;
(c)    assessment of progress toward the goal of reaching export opportunity
cost for fertilizer prices and agreement on a program of further price
adjustments if warranted;
(d)    based on the preliminary results of the LRMC study for electricity,
agreement on a strategy and timetable for further adjustments in
electricity prices if needed;



- 28 -
(6)    review of the legal and regulatory framework for shipping (including
consideration of the cargo reserve requirement and the policy that PEs
must patronize the state-owned shipping firm) and, on the basis of the
review, adoption of measures--including submission of legislation to
Congress if required--to promote competition in shipping, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
(f)    submission of a plan, satisfactory to the Bank. to phase out Government
budgetary transfers to PEs not subject to restructuring programs or
performance agreements (in which the Government transfers are targetted
to well-defined policy objectives);
(g)    adherence to the targets and timetables for implementation of agreed
restructuring programs for INP, INOS, and CADAPE;
(h)    evaluation of the role of the CADAPE holding company and preparation of
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank. for further reforms to decen-
tralize CADAFE; and
(i)    Cabinet approval of restructuring programs, satisfactory to the Bank,
for SIDOR, CANTV, and CAVN.
79.    The following are specific conditions for third tranche releases
(a)   maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives
of the reform program;
(b)    satisfactory progress in implementation of the agreed reform program as
set out in the attached Policy Letter;
(c)    adjustment of prices for petroleum products, electricity, and
fertilizers in accordance with agreed plans;
(d)    adherence to agreed plan to phase out transfers to public enterprises
not subject to restructuring programs or performance agreements;
(e)    Cabinet approval of restructuring programs, satisfactory to the Bank,
for five additional public enterprises;
(f)    adherence to targets and timetables for implementation of agreed
restructuring programs for SIDOR, CANTV, and CAVN; and
(g)    assets of at least US$150 million brought to point of sale (i.e valua-
tions and other required preparatory actions completed).
Loan Disbursement and Procurement
80.    Disbursements would be in three tranches of US$70 million, US$85
million, and US$107.5 million, respectively. In addition, 252 of the loan
amount (US$87.5 million) will be used by the Venezuelan Government to support
a Debt Reduction Plan to be approved by the Bank. Loan proceeds (excluding
the debt set-aside) would be used to finance 1002 of the c.i.f. costs of
general imports not contained in a negative list. Ineligible imports comprise
goods financed by other multilateral or bilateral sources, luxury goods, and



- 29 -
goods intended for military use. No more than 15 of the loan amount can be
disbursed for imports of foodstuffs. Retroactive financing in the amount of
US$70 million would be available to finance eligible expenditures incurred
after March 31, 1990.
81.    Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procure-
ment Guidelines. All contracts for the procurement of general imports to cort
the equivalent of US$5 million or more shall be awarded through simplified
international competitive bidding.  Contracts of the privv.e sector costing
over US$1 million and under the equaivalent of US$5 million would be procured
following established commercial practices, which should include whenever
possible quotations from eligible bidders from at least two foreign countries.
Contracts of the private sector costing less than US$l million would be pro-
cured according to cosmercial practices acceptable to the Bank. Public sector
contracts below US$5 million would be procured according to limited interna-
tional competitive bidding or shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. To
ensure the acceptability of the procedures, the Bank will exercise strong ex
post supervision.
82.    The Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV) will be responsible for maintain-
ing loan accounts and for preparing and submitting withdraw-al applications.
Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of a summary
from BCV detailing individual import transactions in each relevant period,
together with a certification of payments of the amounts involved, and of
their eligibility under the loan. Applications for withdrawals will be conso-
lidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million.
83.    The BCV will maintain separate accounts to record and monitor loan
disbursements and repayments. All records and accounts in support of state-
ments of expenditures financed under the proposed loan will be made available
to Bank missions and will be audited each year in accordance with sound
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to IBRD.
Technical Assistance
84.    Technical assistance in support of the proposed operation would be
provided under the Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), currently in preparation
and scheduled for Board presentation this fiscal year. Approximately US$5
million of the TAL would be allocated to support the PE reform program. Funds
would be available for, inter alias preparation and implementation of
restructuring programs for SIDOR, INOS, CANMV, INP, and other PEs, as
required; assistance in the implementation of the privatization program (e.g.,
valuations and investment banking services); the study of the legal, finan-
cial, and institutional relationship between PEs and the Government; and other
studies as required. Agreepent was reached at negotiations on terms of refer-
ence for studies in relation to SIDOR and CANTV, as well as the proposed study
of the PE/Government legal, financial, and institutional relationships.
Benefits and Risks
85.    While it is difficult to quantify precisely the benefits of the PE
reform program, it is possible to forecast and monitor its expected impact.
This impact will be felt in three major areass (i) an increase in private
sector activity and investment (measured in terms of the private sector's



- 30 -
share of GDP and new investment). This relative shift in economic activity
(towards the private sector) will result not only from privatization, but
perhaps more significantly as a result of increased opportunities for private
sector expansion into sectors previously restricted to the public sector;
(Li) an increase in the productivity and profitability of those assets remain-
ing in the public sector. This, in turn, should enhance public finances
through a reduction in Government financial support (both direct--in the form
of transfers--and indirect--in the form of loan guarantees). Moreover, it
should also result in increased returns to Government in the form of higher
dividends; and (iii) a substantial improvement in key services (shipping,
telecoummincations, postal, electricity) through a combination of restructur-
ing of the public enterprises in these sectors (i.e., via economlc pricing,
operational improvements, changes in product mix and target markets, workforce
rationalization, privatization where possible, etc.) and increased competition
from the private sector (notably in postal service, shipping, and telecomnuni-
cations). This expected improvement in critical public services will be
reflected both in a higher volume of customers served and speed/efficiency of
service.
86.    Some rough estimates of the positive effects of these measures over the
next five years can be defined. For example, through privatization and pri-
vate sector expansion, the public sector's share of GDP can be expected to
decline from its current level of roughly 30S. Similarly, the ratio of pri-
vate investment to GDP is expected to increase from 7.32 in 1989 to 12.22 by
1994; within overall investment, the ratio of private/public investment is
expected to rise from 73Z in 1989 to 91? by 1994. Profitability improvements
in those assets remaining in the public sector in the medium term (either due
to the public service nature of their activities or given the need for some
degree of restructuring prior to privatization) will yield tangible and moni-
toriable results; an increase in the aggregate return on assets for nonfinan-
cial public enterprises (excluding petroleum) from the current level of less
than 12 to, say, 5? would generate additional internal resources of roughly
US$1 billion per annum at current exchange rates, a portion of which could be
paid to the Government in the form of dividends. Similarly, a phase out of
GovernmentlIFV transfers to PEs (averaging 3.42 of GDP over the last six
years) would result in savings to the Government of roughly US$1 billion per
annum at current exchange rates. Even assuming that some transfers continued
in the medium term to cover past external debt obligations, it still should be
possible to achieve a phased reduction of at least 50? (or US$500 million)
annually in Government transfers to PEs once the restructuring programs are
implemented. Finally, it is expected that at least US$150-US$200 million in
public sector assets will be wholly privatized; but more Importantly, partial
privatization, through attracting private sector partners into joint ventures
with state-owned companies to finance expansions (e.g., aluminum and petro-
chemicals), and awarding concessions to private firms to operate public
facilities (e.g., the ports) and through similar mechanisms (e.g., leasing)
will likely yield benefits many times this amount.
87.    The major risks to the success of the program relate to broader factors
pertaining to the overall macroeconomic adjustment program, as well as speci-
fic aspects of the PE reform program. The risk that the Government's ambi-
tious macroeconomic reform program could be sidetracked is mitigated by three
factorss the Government's continued conmmitment to pursue difficult macro-
economic reforms; recent progress towards a debt accord with the commercial



- 31 -
banks (which will provide increased financial flexibility and resources for
the economy); and the strong support of the international financial community
for the new Government's program. At the level of the PR reform program, as
noted above, PR restructuring and reform will have an important social impact,
particularly on those employees who may be laid off in the process. The
Government has sought to involve the labor unions in the restructuring and
privatization process to ensure their support and understanding for the reform
measures. Furthermore, adoption of an unemployment insurance program and the
design (under the aegis of the proposed Private Sector Restructuring project)
of a retraining and redeployment program for laid-off workers will facilitate
the adjustment process. Given the risk of possible delay in implementing the
PR reform program associated with political pressures, the loan, exclusive of
the debt set-aside allocation, has accordingly been designed to disburse over
an extended period, with a back-loaded profile to help sustain the momentum of
the adjustment program.
Nonitorina and Evaluation
88.    In addition to monitoring the adequacy and consistency of the macro-
economic framework and overall implementation of the program as set out in the
Policy Letter, a number of indicators will be evaluated to assess the impact
of the program. These will include, inter alias the relative shares of the
public--particularly PEs--and private sectors in GDP and investment; the
incremental capital output ratio for those enterprises remaining in the public
sector (and compared with ICORs for the private sector); the aggregate return
on assets and long-term capital for non-financial public enterprises; the
overall NFPE surplusideficit as a percentage of GDP (-2.0? in 1989)3 the level
of direct Government budgetary transfers to NFPEs (as a percentage of GDP and
of total budgetary expenditures); the amount of assets privatized (both wholly
and partially); and the NFPE's share of total domestic credit and external
public debt. At the micro level, performance targets will be set for each
enterprise undergoing restructuring in the context of the approved restructur-
ing program and will be updated periodically in performance agreements. The
targets will vary depending upon the nature of the business and the key suc-
cess factors. For key public services, the focus will be on extent of public
coverage, efficiency and reliability of service, and capacity to finance
operations and make an appropriate contribution to its investment program.
For enterprises in competitive sectors, the focus will be on competitiveness
and profitability.
PART IV - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
89.   After a 15-year hiatus in its lending relationship with Venezuela, the
Bank in FY89 initiated a substantial program to support the Government's
efforts to create a policy environment for sustainable growth. The Bank's
current focus is on sustaining and deepening the policy reforms already
started. Increasingly, the Bank's focus will shift toward investment lending
in the social sectors, public infrastructure, and environment.



- 32 -
Ristory of Bank Assistance
90.    Between 1961 and 1974, the Bank approved 13 loans to Venezuela,
totalling US$383 million, of which US$342 was disbursed. IBRD loans to
Venezuela Included support for agricultural development (two projects),
transport (four projects, including an airport loan), power (four projects,
including part of the 6uri hydroelectric project), telecoimmnications (two
projects), and water supply (one project). Host projects were viewed as
relatively successful, and funds were fully repaid as of June 1989.
91.    After the 1973 oil windfall, Venezuela chose not to borrow from the
Bank, and subsequently the country's per capita income increased to levels
above the Bank's graduation limit. However, the Bank maintained a Resident
Mission in Caracas through 1979 and provided technical assistance to help in
the appraisal of proposed projects and in general economic analysis.
92.    The Bank's current role reflects . recent resumption of lending based
on the strength of the Governmentfs economic program. However, confronted by
the onset of the debt crisis and a sustained decline in economic output in the
mid-1980s, Venezuela sought a renewed borrowing relationship with the Bank and
was declared eligible to borrow in 1986. As described earlier, the new Admin-
istration of President Pdrez introduced a strong program of economic reforms
and requested substantial technical and financial support from the Bank and
the Fund. The Bank responded with the US$402 million SAL and the
US$353 million TPL approved in June 1989.
Bank O2erational Strategy
93.    The Bank's operational strategy in Venezuela has two basic thrusts.
The first is to use adjustment lending operations to assist the Government in
sustaining and broadening the policy and institutional reform process. Tne
SAL and TPL have supported the basic policy changes required up front to
reduce distortions in the economy, increase the role of market forces in the
allocation of resources, and expose domestic producers to greater competition
through trade liberalization. The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
will support efforts to strengthen and liberalize the financial sector. The
PERL, which is also expected to be approved in FY90, will support efforts to
redefine the role of the public sector in the economy and to maximize the
productive response to the adjustment program, through restructuring of key
state enterprises, clarifying their relationship with the central Government,
eliminating the barriers to entry for private enterprises, and privatizing
selected enterprises. Assuming that efforts to sustain and broaden the reform
process are continued, additional lending has been planned for FY91 and FY92,
including an agricultural sector adjustment loan and a second loan for trade
policy reform. Through such adjustment lending, the Bank will help build an
economic environment in which market-determined prices can guide the efficient
allocation and utilization of resources, in both the public and private
sectors. These adjustments are important prerequisites for achieving greater
efficiency of public investment.
94.    With the basic policy reforms in place, attention should shift to
sector-specific issues which need to be tackled in the context of project
lending. The second basic thrust of our strategy is to build up a pipeline of
investment projects. The pace of preparation, appraisal, and implementation



- 33 -
of investment projects is likely to be slowed by the newness of our relation-
ship with Venezuela and the Government's inexperience with Bank requirements
and procedures.  To facilitate the preparation of projects, the TAL has been
included in the FY90 program. The planned shift toward investment lending
will begin in FY91.
95.    Our analysis indicates that the country is creditworthy for Bank lend-
ing of about US$750 million per annum. The Bank's key contribution is likely
to be the assistance provided by Bank staff in designing and implementing the
investment projects.
Sectoral ComosLition of Bank Lending
96.    Trade. Finance, and Industry.  Support to these sectors would seek to
consolidate the reforms begun with the TPL and to lay the groundwork to make
public and private enterprises more efficient. Severe weaknesses in the
financial sector would be addressed in the FSAL (FY90). With these under way,
the stage would be set for the Private Sector Restructuring Loan (FY91),
intended to assist the restructuring of private sector industry to cope with
international competition. The Second TPL (FY92) is expected to support the
completion of trade reform with emphasis on the reduction of the level of
protection over time and on export promotion measures.
97.    Agriculture.  It would be difficult to undertake viable lending opera-
tions without first instituting some basic reforms. Currently there is an
interlockcing and complex web of price supports, subsidies, directed credit at
highly subsidized interest rates, and import and export controls. The Agri-
culture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) (FY91), which will concentrate on liber-
alizing agriculture trade and domestic pricing, is intended to set the stage
for Bank project lending in agricultural infrastructure and support servicea,
possibly an Irrigation Project (FY93).
98.    Infrastructure.  Institutional and financial reforms are under way in
some key agencies in the infrastructure sectors, but Bank assistance is deemed
necessary, as many of these institutions will virtually have to be rebuilt.
The Water and Sewerage Project (FY93), while supporting the reorganization of
the sector based upon the planned restructuring of INOS (a centralized water
and sanitation agency), will also finance high-priority investments in the
sector. The Power Distribution Project (FY92) is intended to support the
decentralization of a national utility company's distribution services, upon
completion of the ongoing sector reforms.
99.    Social Sectors and Environment.  The program for FY91 includes two
investment -roJects directed towards poverty alleviation and designed to
ameliorate e social impact of adjustment, particularly on the poorest and
the most vulnerable groups. The Social Development Project is designed to
support the nationwide expansion of a program for maternal-infant health and
nutrition. The Slum Upgrading Project (FY92) will improve the physical infra-
structure and basic services in poor urban neighborhoods. It is anticipated
that such social sector projects, with a strong poverty alleviation orienta-
tion, will have a central place in the Bank's lending to Venezuela. Environ-
ment will be another area of focus. The Environmental Protection Project
(FY93) will support establisbment of the country's legal and institutional



- 34 _
framework for environmental protection, while helping to prepare and finance
specific Investments projects to reverse the contamination of Lake Maracaibo
ard tie Tuy River.
iC Lendia Pr
100.   Because per capita income exceeded the Bank Group's graduation linit,
IFC was not active for several years in Venezuela. However, IPC resumed
operations in Venezuela in the mid-1980s, and now has an active program.
Between 1960 and December 31, 1989, total gross commitments by IFC were
US$162.3 million, of which US$158.9 million were loans and US$3.4 million were
equity. In the past three years, IFC has moved quickly to make major invest-
ments in areas that had previously been the preserve of the public sector. In
1988, it approved an investment to VENCEKOS for ceraent production; in 1989, it
approved investments to OPCO and PROPILVEN for hot-briquetted iron production
and polypropylene production, respectively. IYC has directed its efforts at
supporting the Government's strategy of exploiting natural resources to
support the balance of payments and to diversify the economy.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH TEE INN
101.   IMF staff have been consulted at different stages of preparation of the
reform program and have expressed their support. We expect to continue colla-
borating closely with the Fund, not only in the implementation of the reform
program, but also in the assessment of the appropriateness of macroeconomic
management for ensuring a stable environment required for the success of the
operation.
PART VI - RECO)HEUDATION
102.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 19, 1990



VENEBA PI?LZC   WRTSE liEFGP   l LOM4: POLICY  ATh11
MSa/asJ71"E                                       ACTIO1 TAt(t TO  AME                                      BY SECOcO  ThMCO                                       eV 1W tRimC
(Spcific logt cQ.-titc for astend art thirdtn            le   are      d   h       )
1. a IISSItc  WImU       M osJ
A. lO br e satiefectory          PM  Peicy Ldotter ets out madiw  term  licy             * getiao   aroa    la isplesntidg fE reo               a     feter  peogra  to loplaIane PU refoam
proram  la ImpleatIng         objecvee sa  mtion. weotad *urin  Am                     prolorsm. Res oht In Pel icy Letter.                    proeoes "s  au  la fol Icy Letter.
overll F  refere pregen.     iupleeteom  erlid.
. I_r.  e        _ usith                                                                * lbcrgiwsier fror& .  sletent with                     a  erseosit fr_swor cosistent with
wasren a t r _l                                                                        objeiv of refor  progree (alao co1 dition               ebj.tiu  of refo  *regm.
of fftl ven.s.).
U. cwarmrwzm O Amc m,Wmu UMQ  _sIW
A. Adjuet Priem of                wdr structral adjustmmt pore  p    cntral.              Contiueto  of phd Wm a, -I  to fic  ajt a *r          * Price of prol_um  FreodCs ir        d arding
Fe _gede/eorlve              e laated for eb good.. trm  aptee fr                     petol    preoduct.                                      td ged  Ie..
to ecoaic levl.               phased *pice Increases forW petroloeu  produts to
a*pop o_ortanity cafr   and phased  e$81natics of    *    Agrlemt with llmhern pre  for further               a Adjuenat of frtiI law pricls  h *cordes
WUaiGs. throuph owl" Ircrea. f*r fertlizer               dje     t I. fertilizer Priesm                         Doak egrml Plan.
produci_o  s. dlebtributic. PrIe_ Isorassed for
*hletric 1 _1. agoie* _nd telephone mervice.           e Based Gn peimiry r"Ita Of U.3  stAWy,                * Implessstohc  of ao gree tretew  Po: adjuwsltm
Cflitemnt to  ndart ke long run mertnll goe (UC)  _ rsent an etrtg  and                 to for furhIer          In elrstricity prce. aed an UPC study.
sudi"  for 0l.ctriciyr. meural ag  bad telecom           adjuateanta io electricity Pries. if raedd.
Price  djueoe"nt fowr talecimnIaltion  be  an          Price todjustme  pregres  efisd for natural
lACe to ha  d     ad iir contat of retructurint        Om beed an econowic opeo   ity cas.
of tdleom sector.
Principle of prlcing accordin to econcic Oppotunity                                                             C_olts  tudy to Idenify Mc preciely ecnomic
coat idoped by Cup. Tranfer price for busitos ant                                                               opportuity canto fow bavaito and  lusin, ad
"gong, "  reference price of lamported bausito at                                                               revise CYS iner-ceopear   trnsfer prics. itf
Intrelun-a pert. Transfer prie  for Doualu                                                                     neceery, to role" economic opportuity cast.
betsoen _nterntionl ape  rie and prieo
of lton-term elmira euply contracts.
IIl. DOW=  CP1EWIW  WWUinW, MIW    DISCILD                    PRIVATE DNiB'i
A. P01 Iy fremort enalinge            X ol icy La       states agrern  Pt comitaca t :
In_resed prtiwv   eator       reduc  the ecI of pullc sector (focaing en
activity                       oc1a1/conae irtrutre)               noe  pri_e
seor aspawaln on cmaNari sotvitleal MatIN
a 'leel plIysin  flald' fer puli  WAn  privete
entarpriesa  ad lisit 0actors resre  for mejority
oublic paertipetlan to pPetol    WAn  iron ore
prleduclt.
D.  eers  sierfetoery l_tl       Oeere lwue  In l_1t atablig;rag debtequi& amp            mr,agssawion, of Se     (invrat_t Vromion
san  ragletoy erenant           e     s en  opein  up atoaesms. mining and             egatv) to felIltoaf feign inveetme1t.
for forelin invoestwo        meo tllro to fetlen investare.                                                                                                                                 00
lb
Decree loei lot %lopw ening up virtually *11 o ther
esetra (tale*.. *aP0ort service_, consulting, postl
_dc )a en  libralla,ngtr   eliainalgretrirtb n
ssrvicse) to foreign Inveetmrnt .1 isi eatin
reetrictione en foreign inveetmet in *Siating                                                                                                                 VI
o       nro t andietriuWRo  eiveteent tind r*es;ttioan
on profit di*tritwticr. r-;rc*_mnt Ord r_;itt"co



VEEflA  PLO.&C _MMM   AEl LOANS POLCY wA4TtIX
USaVOJETIW                                          ACiNt TM   TO DATE                                          eV $0U   TRAE"                                            eV 114"   lWaE
(specific          ii   fr                   third trenC   roles  are med With an 
C. Sacreseee  opotiti               e  t entre r   eliminated uider trade Polley raefe    a Roil. leeelpoley frm                for ohipping
for sm_do prdu w by P        tt.. *e.l. "it)               (including serge reseve reirseat Vid p WiCY
thet P   Mis petreniwe   etto-omd Shipping lii)
eN, beeodw C* Sandy. oept soome  (end/Or aibei
logiolotlon  to Cgre, if relired) to promoe
coapetition In shipping.
Rel.iw  logel/regulotry frameork for telcom
mi  pootel stor  with chietivo of inreet.ing
privet  octor perticipation sW   reducing barriers
to cepetition. If necooe*ry. submit legioletive
ch ie to Congre.
IV. Pe UMAL, PWvCI&Am  DUIU I'M. PUUu 
A. Clarify PUOetverNut            Policy Letter *tteo  overnmsnt Comitmmnt to                                                                          Preosre drft per_oo         efeteor 10 Pb
l1gl, fienil sad               lntr_od    perferc  agr ermt for POP heiig                                                                           (be  an     -a        r_tructring  roerf  or for
i1t11ttionl                    major financial iest em        rNt . Asre it to                                                                      Pbf receiviag Geirut fm nencl  e_pper).
E'tmnhpe  roiB  erall ett   perforsne ter*e to
FU,* borrwtoin. Inveatman  end dividend polcyj aNW
bierneent finenciel support (if aN) fo  agreed
poblic *ervice fuction.. 
Agreemet an ten. of reference for etdy of                  Couple" lega/inetitutioel atudy Nd adomt                   Wlsnat (or obeit to Cngresa fo  eagrval)
fIRSncio  and Institutional relotiasnhie                  Pctint  le ato ealarif.loplifRy lega. financial,         aNW reired legl en    totiomel reforms.
betwee  Pb   and  oven .                                   ed inmtitutional raletimnsipe bebtw"e  Pbt end
the Central   oerneet.
.initlso COvor"8on                PolliQ Let     etate government obJective  *t                          of owtiofecto    Ple  to *hn ew a             Adheenc  to grd plan for phase oa of
tronefo  to ib                 oubetentiolly reduce tronofra to Pb over edive             government trn_fora to P   nt eubjct to           i         tr fer. to Pb not _Aject to re.tftrln$
tere; and 11lt CW  lun  arentes  to PU borrowinga        reetrcturing Orogreame (e  V) or Performanc.             preom or prfor_snce egr er_e.
which fore ingrel port of apprewd retructurigte            agoe   to (Oeo below).
pro_rese or for Pb ewpriding key public _r vice.
Performance "agemente *itne  for *l Pb r*eeiving
tranefer, for Well-def;ne  publt Policy oje ctive.
C. Eliminte  itor-segny            ond iee_.. In 19gB Ned so  to . limneta *arreera.          Plan prepered to  rttl  ereer  (hased if It lsoentetiom of are  plan to settle arrere.
aer'lMre.                      eirEise undrwa  to idmetif  mjor so-rre  (sove              necssry) snd to introduc  eaeureo to proven
Se So milIIon - r"oglo   Uls a milt).                      reurr
0. l, role for the Rindo         tliesPlY mnegemt appointed in log and ceiling                RsetrUPtRi  of FIV'e orgiastionen aend futio.            Phieed _withral frm direWt lewing Na
Ivereignee de Venezuela        eatbbliwlid en 1S  t"rwener  to Pb. Ino late 196           subject to Cengreeoionsl approevl of tem Pl  lee.         invetmnt.  nd reduction In transfer of
(PlY)                    Cabint approved In principle FP1  eithdr.m*l from                                                                    ptrwoleum tape. to the  M.
dictr lndtlginwetenten  rediretion of iteo
efforte to  istl with prlitilon.                                                                                                                                     M
tn 1ow. awbaeieon to Congress of leo formalising
the  Changee -   lwirawl from direct lnd4ing/
inveeteent ed reoduc In in tranfer of "ptrole su
towss to FPV during neat five yers                                                                                                                                    M



V8EVEA PUILC OE11PRISSRE8    A- LOAN: POLZCY VATRD
amwojwrmn                                         AC?ID TAXEl TO DTE                                        BY SOM TRAlo                                           Dv THI  YRAIW
(Spioif  lel 1bd itlaile foer nomad  a third trnache raie" me. weored with ra c 
. b_lerge). Crp-oleol            CW  reor lged to fomilam se as holOso  _eea
Voeasolsm de b.p.s. f_e usiae. s1deetrll eSd pose P_tr    ebagma  egion.
(CYS) se holding cespo.       Iladiag co festiose Inoleds: loeee)tolt, of
m_qt presidmte md ,Al Is  tor boasd   aebfri    S
omrowl of ...lo berniae. plowsowma Investment
prgrmm_s mmi_teri    of _gv per_frmaces  defltion
of Pei lee/Ouldelitwo fow mehoting eN  priainl.
P. strusothan ev                 Seslgaties of mm wioepredemq with rempoeibilifit
on,irmomu,tg function         foe soscleinnoti )la"e. swewlle gouiaelo /toch"Poig.
V-P to cmrAlsot.    , t.I policy fow roegio  en
work with Co   eniea on             tel le
V. 1111amae u1  3M, V           XUN=   i  _
A. tWblidh  polic a" s_  X islet l b1-letomrisg C_mise 1a etoub lb
lsot)ts.lemls PtnSmwff        to overe oteosig.sti ow"M   eo.ftrwurisg
for rwmtwog.                       Vd/ei          d               propemle.
btealkive wocrtep aed wAeeting grup Aimseintod to
smpeort fterotorl.g Comolios. Spert e  tiag gsidel iso
*pwod fore  mobtstrls C_ml_Slo..
Ptlirw lt    sote ou gowl. of estructs.lags
to  Atfe i'E fifswiml1 oIf-4sfWOia   Nd
competltwienss; top lotsee effloinepmad onsorI
retional pteloA  fr gblin. ae revio  stitioe stod
t0  Md   _ek.  i.;lpl eis. In the ag er. Also,
all sow4rfatuel' *__ *i   omemo d_efeiretltv
of pertwatiala  ellenrti of Plo octIvitele/_*este.
S.  toublish rootreeturinng      inti,l 5rowp of a Pb &S O  tod fer roetroturing:         lMditIonl creep of thrm  to five Pb. oetloftr    0 Cabe O     t _reeovl of ro_trstrih  ogrwm.
gea Ied rWisp/opprow,          Do. St. cSM. $W. C1. CMfl. C  _U emd                    to the ebn. AN   llp orIoto  for reetrutoine.           mtiaetoe  to the *uh fop S aitioeal Pb.
reotrscturfanPg 0 teoom       ZMtVL
PoIlicy Letter net. oVA arod roetruoturlng progra      e Adheres., to teroegttimetablne foe imloommestatio
foe PP. Jim  ead CwM  C"oo below).                       of agreeA regintructulng rorm* foe VW5. SW aNd
C4W Come helow).
n Cabinet a"Pot"I of  o.teuotering program,            a Adheres..s to tmgt/iotbefoe i*oleomt.ties
osfatr  t  tes in. foe SW. CAM   d                     of a_ red       i rer   v     w t gro   fo     W*I,
cav (n.. below).                                       sad cuv (msa helm).
Agreoemm"stoied be*le o  twort_   ma OR-CA         f      oweramat eprove  of adIstumat gaogri. r fPrfe_orms.  grmb bmr_                              gd i_  _
prwldiag debt reliof to  h.CA as  dir"itig                  .tXA. soludlng  rewlood -egasatioml etotro;   .sdtd to esorr efficies   eteinno. 
Co_ear to peeper. comprreahesevo edutomat p*r_og        tariff  trcture adJuetoss eopertiosl oomtmlW
foe Coer neat r_ view/mggrovl by eri-ad 3990*.               nr trol spomow.



VB LA PUBLIC Sffetr    itu   LOMN: POLICY Mtx
X.wJ EjwrI                                        ACTISOe   TM   TO DATE               DBY $Br                      W C                                            Ft THDO #RX
(Sp"ific et al condition. for sced and third tr_nu  ree.. t    r mrked ,ito an* )
C. Reetctur do Dof        b     t Agred retrocturiag proge for W  call for:         *     Aderence to t*ag tim Iale for l1lemant."tn
(ert.)                       dIlee tioe or tranefermtion of D; estbi I         t       o a       rt tg  prore.
of_le  te           r*luthorIde and p Private
ceneeeono egobtem  reveisin of labor conftrct. end       lieu meemree: dmtintafo tonof 3W$
eroce rtl lme port reatorje auth@rit# eitehed:
cnc rmio eawarded to Private firmsr  lbar
cmtirateu rWeua WAd foritforca rationalimed.
0. SeebuotWeit  of DM            Age0 reetructria   ree  for DMSeclls for:              a Adh*ern  to tergetatia I le for loplememtoits
(eater _ep)t)                 dieof 214)8: eetebl at                                   of agreed     w reetrucrg progrm.
of privatly, or pabol bg-caned retgiml eter
cewoee; retbnliatiea o f triff Policy;                   No   ere        ett                         VMS/trnfr  e of  OS
_rhoroe  reduetloa; r _mteelatio  of labor               NW  trivael  or ei clcaed l    rei t_rl seatr
cwnrecta;  W atabil l       of rgltory frt sameor   _ eniea  ormd; am_ reslato   framot; tariff
policy ratieellmi; eorkfore  rdueds ai ltab
contract. reelee.
C. _ ftrbcterin r tWCA           Age  reeatctbriel perogra  fer c*   cells for,          A          to tareete/4leato for Implementation
(elect. detrlbatito)          intrr ella, eetabt lemnt of regignal dletributito        of  _gree  r t 4ftoturlng  rgrm for  O
_teiel (CiorudIagN p ;ble  or.tit          of d         ba tls, of role of  Wth badinte c c  ed_
dietribution) ad Workforce   irepration of an ation plan. eUatefctory tote,                                                                                            *
llb. foW fturthe re ora to decentral   COM 
r.  aetructuring of 1M0          Aremet on: tor  of refereeca for review of               Cemebleto  of inveatmwe  ptrgra  realI.
(steal)                       SJll*3=     pro_ced inetmenw Prcr"; an  free.            Preparation of reetrutaregl plan bae  on whtet
on  tovernmet  ar  e   of ea In' eetmet focg             seeennt mnd regle. of inveatnat prgram rweie
pending completion of rwesl of propo   tneetant    e cabintt   _groat of retucturhg progra  for               * Aberece to ft rgte/ti      Italo for estlemettica
eroo    sod celewten    with finanil eIlf-               Smm. atefactsc   to the Mush.                          of ared reetrcturin  progr  fer  3
Suffiaenc  and coetltivenee.
a. Reetructurlng of CWAv         Agreeaet or boo    ref renc  fr rel ew of              * Cabint approvel of retactaring proora  for           * Aher   to t           Ita for Imlementation
Nd tel ecm aectr              toleckeatione eectoad prepartion of                      C_IY, etatetwecory to the Dtash                        of agreed nabreetr rlag prgrea  for   Ily.
,reetcrine pla" for ClY.
VI. PWRIAT1UATII PSOOM
R_duc evope of publitc         ntermInterlal Privetiaatton Coml ident                   W"aluet   complted for at leeeb 10 aditional         a As*eo of at Iesot U11 *t ellion berout to
eeorww  and attrat mmew       eetabllob". Aproal of rouhSy 100  oldina/aee6o            oldns                                                 pot of sale (vlatione Ned other require
e-mngat. caitol WA            to be privetied (a booke. 8 comet coepee.                                                                       treopraoy atin  cr el at1d).
technoleog  Into              CW holdng.C Corpaturei  hotb/elholditg).
privatieed firm.              Veluatione  copileted for a holdins.
Thre  addItioenal FE& (41A. AWOOAL, 10  to be
analyzed by Commision for possible  rlvatiztson.                                                                                                                  "
Plt cly Lettrer -eat out pretet* ujde in.: pricing
at serhet valet; as earet protection or financing 
to purtohaere.
tnt-a



V89MALAfU Mg     WmIUft=n Lko pa=C ow=Z
USR/SJUT2WS                                     AmI`ns11 TMS TO OM I                                    UT        TAM                                        IN 71,=  loIP11
(*1eS#i. lopi uuiut.m  for iomWd  thiri teamc. r.l.we ore #Xrb.i irt mam 
Vii  manA.  W        PR      M    i NW
_o.oclg eimol of             ihlm__gi w*  ioomnt _iew mm g    w f estobliio.        bob m_er reetrrlis SOW ovlaatlem                     bob mJor rotrh-No a" PlTlm"Imtlom
P refm plow                  Li_bo fe_erm"l11 ropmemted li PrI,mtIaate              aperulom to 1l1d  mlISe)ts  I1s. of r S Ss           oporemt   to kioluim m,itot m_lgeF of  iwlet
Commi)op. Leber smiom  commul i on *It                 mok ft,s.mIml less. 1 ppropelte  le ootlo  to         i flnemi lope". A1rppw rore l .iiop.     to
reotrinp.                                              be Incluied to a,or,us  migul bde.t to               be lctuded   1Oo am.rwm"t's samuel bAe to
mdiir   sawles/fIlm.aloo lopwo of r    trlo          mdi.                          ofuJ fl.mlol    _  of rtrl
mdpriv,tlmttom.                                    ted priv,tlmato.
'0
l
0
U',-'



- 41-                              AMNNX 2
Page 1 of 11
VENEZUELA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE 17R0M LOAN
Policy Letter
Background
1.       Faced with serious economic problems, the Venezuelan Government ini-
tiated a program in February 1989, which aimed to fundamentally restructure
the economy, from one based on the unmanaged consumption of petroleum rents to
one based on productive work. Greater social justice, improved economic effi-
ciency, and strengthened cultural development constitute the major features of
the new development strategy. Its basic objective is that the quality of life
for Venezuelans improve subsjtantially, through increased efficiency of the
state and the efforts of Venezuelan citizens.
2.       The economic reform program is directed at restoring the
international competitiveness of the Venezuelan economy, In contrast to the
previous strategy directed at import substitution and self-sufficiency. Major
steps taken in the context of the program include, inter alia, liberalization
of the exchange and trade regimes, price decontrol, deregulation of the
financial system (including liberalization of interest rates to permit
positive real interest rates), measures to reduce the fiscal deficit, and a
reorientation of social programs to better assist the poor. A central element
of the program is a redefinition of the role of the state in the economy.
The Macroeconomic Reform Program
3.       The short-term objective of the reform program has been to stabilize
the economy and, in particular, the balance of payments and fiscal accounts.
The cornerstone of the stabilization program was establishment of a unified,
market-determined exchange rate. This measure alone dampened pressure on
international reserves, by restraining import demand and reduced quasi-fiscal
losses of the Central Bank on account of foreign exchange guarantees. The
fiscal situation was also improved by the rise in public enterprise tariffs
and petroleum products, by tax administration measures, and by spending
restraint.
4.       While the stabilization effort must not weaken in the medium term,
there are clear indications that it is succeeding. The nonfinancial public
sector (which includes the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal accounts) registered a
deficit equal to less than 2? of gross domestic product in 1989, down from
about 92 the previous year. The deficit is attributable to losses on foreign
currency guarantees granted under the previous import and exchange regime.
The current account of the balance of payments registered an estimated US$2.2
billion surplus in 1989, although the overall balance of payments (as measured
by changes in the Central Bank's net reserves) was in deficit, because of
lower than anticipated medium-term commercial bank financing. The exchange
rate itself had displayed a notable stability during the first seven months of
the program, remaining within a Bs 36.6-Bs 38.5/US$l.OO range. However, it
has since depreciated to the range of Bs 43-Bs 46IUS$1.OO. Monthly inflation



- 42 -
VENEZUBLA - PIBLIC INTERPRISE REFORM LOAN                                AERM  2
Policy Letter                                                       Page 2 of 11
has been kept at just over 2Z per month, following an inflationary surge in
the first two months of the program. A resurgence of inflation in September
and October 1989 was arrested with effective monetary measures.
S.       Beyond stabilization, the longer-term objectives of the adjustment
program are too (i) promote private activity, by enhancing the role of
markets in resource allocation; (ii) modernize and restructure the public
administration system, so as to reduce unnecessary regulations and
interference in private activity; (iii) establish and maintain a trade regime
that is neutral in creating incentives among productive activities; (iv)
reduce the reliance on petroleum, by promoting non-oil exports and alternative
sources of Government funding; and (v) increase domestic savings, in order to
limit foreign borrowing requirements. If these reforms are successful, it is
expected that the result would be a sustainable rate of growth, with a greater
degree of resistance to external shocks.
6.       The measures taken thus far reflect considerable progress in most, if
not all, of these areas. The rise in public enterprise prices and tariffs, in
addition to contributing to improving the fiscal position, is a useful first
step in public enterprise reform, as it allows evaluation of economic costs
through the price mechanism. At the same time, ongoing trade reforms and
elimination of price controls and subsidies on many products are allowing
private sector prices to reflect true economic costs and have ended the
shortages experienced prior to the new economic policy. In the financial
area, the liberalization of interest rates in February 1989 was designed to
improve the financial condition of intermediaries and to promote additional
resource mobilization. While interest rate ceilings were reinstituted because
of a Supreme Court ruling, the increase in interest rate ceilings over time
has decreased the distortions in the financial system. Finally, the public
investment program and social welfare expenditures are being reviewed, to
target beneficiaries more precisely within the constraints imposed by the new
fiscal responsibility.
7.       Although growth piospects remain good in the medium term, the short-
term costs of adjustment are proving to be quite severe. Non-oil GDP dropped
by about 9.12 in 1989. Given this result, the adjustment process needs to be
implemented in a way that is least disruptive and puts special emphasis on
social sectors.
8.       The Government will maintain a macroeconomic policy framework
consistent with the objectives of its adjustment program. This framework will
involve continuation of a unified, market-determined exchange rate and a
financial regime in which interest rates are freely set in the marketplace.
The fiscal position, together with the rate of growth of monetary aggregates,
will be consistent with the restoration of real GDP growth and declining
inflation rates. It is expected that the Government will maintain its policy
of further improving the fiscal balance of the consolidated nonfinancial
public sector. Also, given the impact of oil price movements on Venezuela's
external balance, management of international reserves is crucial to
macroeconomic stability. Therefore, in the event of increasing oil prices,
increases in the international reserves of the Central Bank are expected.



- 43 -
vNEZUBL  - PUBLIC ESNTP USE BPORK LOAN                                   ANNEX 2
PolLc  Letter                                                     Page 3 of 11
The New Role of the State
9.       The new development strategy requires a strengthened and efficient
Government, which can promote competition and stimulate expansion and
consolidation of a modern market economy, to form the basis of future develop-
ment. To achieve this objective, it will be necessary to reverse the direc-
tion of the last decade, during which the state was inefficient in its roles
of entrepreneur, promoter of private activity, and guide for social and
cultural development. As entrepreneur, the state will reduce its scope of
action, concentrating on the allocation of public resources for strategic
activities. As promoter, it will provide greater consistmncy, simplicity, and
stability to the policy environment for private sector decisions, elimlinating
discretionality of public officials in decisions which affect that sector,
while at the same time requiring strict compliance with clear and simple rules
of the game. As the director of social policy, it will establish policy
instruments which focus directly on relieving poverty, instead of diffusing
its efforts with irdiscriminate subsidies. As a consequence of the political
and administrative reforms now being advanced, the state will need to
facilitate econor c decentralization, not only from a geographical point of
view, but also I the administration of the Central Government. The central
focus of public investment will be on basic infrastructure and social
services, while private investment expands and evolves into an Important
stimulus to growth.
The Public Interprise Reform Protram
10.      Given the fundamental shift envisioned in the role of the public
sector, a program to restructure the public enterprise sector has been
launched. This program is complemented by parallel efforts to rationalize and
strengthen public administration. A number of important actions have already
been initiated, including, inter alias adjusting prices of key goods and
services to economic levels; eliminating import monopolies for public
enterprises; launching a privatization program and establishing an
interministerial committee (IMC) to oversee this program; and an initial
analysis of selected priority enterprises facing pressing efficiency andlor
financial problems, with a view to fundamentally restructuring them.
11.      The Government intends to broaden and deepen these initial reforms
and, in this context, requests the financial support of the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank, through parallel Public Enterprise Reform
Loans (PERLs), to support implementation of this program. The main goals of
the public enterprise reform program are tot create an environment in which
public enterprises are subject to the same market pressures as private sector
firms, provide appropriate regulation for natural monopolies (whether public
or private), transform the non-petroleum public enterprise sector into a net
contributor rather than depleter of national resources, and substantially
increase opportunities for investment and production for the private sector,
both national and foreign. Specifically, the proposed adjustment program has
the following objectivess
(a)      Ensure that the price reforms initiated under the structural adjust-
ment program are continued;



whuZuMA - PMaL:C  EUMPSE REFORM LO      44                               ANNEX 2
Policy Letter                                                      Page 4 of 11
(b)      Rationalize laws, regulations, policies, or practices which impede
competition, market discipline, and private investment, in key
sectors where public enterprises dominatel
(c)     Define mutual responsibilities and increase transparency of the
owner/company relationship between the Central Government and public
enterprises;
td)      Substantially reduce Government transfers to public enterprises over
the medium term;
(e)     Fundamentally restructure those public enterprises critical to the
success of the economic adjustment effortg and
(f)     Continue with the privatization of public enterprises and holdings
whose ownership no longer fulfills public policy objectives.
To coordinate the public enterprise reform program, the Government has
established an Interministerial Committee (IMC) for Privatization, to oversee
the privatization program, and a parallel Interministerial Committee (DMC) for
Restructuring, to oversee and coordinate the restructuring programs. The
Government will ensure that these Committees have sufficient resources and
staffing to fulfill their important mandate.
Adiustment of Prices for Goods and Services Produced by Public Enterprises
12.      Under the structural adjustment program, price controls were elimi-
nated for most public and private goods and services. In addition, a phased
program to adjust the prices of fertilizers and petroleum products to export
opportunity cost was introduced. Earlier this year, decisions were also taken
to increase the price of iron ore to its export opportunity cost during 1990.
Real rate increases were also initiated for nontradeables (electricity,
telephone, and gas). In parallel. studies are being initiated to determine
the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) for natural gas, electricity, and
telecommunications.
13.      In the context of the reform program, petroleum and fertilizer prices
will continue to be adjusted to their export opportunity cost. Increases will
be made according to a strategy which will be implemented through a phased
adjustment program. In addition, based on the preliminary results of the LRMC
studies, a program will be defined by mid-1991 for further adjustments in
electricity prices, if needed. Price adjustments for telecommunications,
based on LRMCs, will be addressed in the context of the restructuring of the
telecommunications sector. A price adjustment program for natural gas, based
on economic opportunity cost, will be defined by early 1992.
Improving Competitive Environment. Market Discipline, and Private Investment
14.      Over the last 10 years, the policy and legislative framework has
effectively precluded competition and stifled private investment--both
domestic and foreign. Large commercial public enterprises have been protected
from competition through a combination of tariff barriers, import monopolies
exercised by public enterprises, price controls, and constraints to private
investment. These policies were intended to promote self-sufficiency in basic



- 45 -
VNXUELA - PUBLIC ENTERPUISS REFORE LOAN                                  ANNEX 2
Policy Letter                                                      Page 5 of 11
commodities and to maximize control of the economy's main productive base. In
contrast, the Government's development strategy now emphasizes the opening of
the economy to international competition and the expansion of private invest-
ment. The Goverrment is committed to ensuring a "level playing field" for
both public and private enterprises. In addition, it intends to reduce its
role in the commercial sectors, by concentrating its financial role on social
and economic infrastructure, leaving the financing of expansions in commercial
capacity to private sources.
15.      Some measures have already been adopted to stimulate competition
(e.g., through elimination of import controls) and foreign investment (e.g.,
issuance of Decree 86 in 1989, which established an auction mechanism for
debt-equity swaps and opened up aluminum, mining, and metallurgy to foreign
investors). In addition, in February 1990, the Ministry of Finance issued a
decree which opens almost all sectors for foreign investment and eliminates
remaining discriminatory practices against foreign investors. The decree
contains revisions in three areass (i) opening up sectors now closed to
foreign investment--in particular telecommunications, export services, garbage
collection, postal, and consulting services--where prospects of foreign
investment in the near future are favorable; (ii) eliminating current restric-
tions on foreign investment in existing assets; and (iii) significantly
liberalizing or eliminating current restrictions on profit distribution,
reinvestment, and remittance. The only sectors currently not open to majority
private investment are petroleum and iron ore production. Foreign investment
is presently precluded in only the banking sector and Spanish-language
newspapers. It is expected. however, that the banking sector would also
become open to foreign investment, within the framework of the financial
sector adjustment program. Moreover, the investment promotion agency (SIEX)
will be restructured, to facilitate foreign investment.
16.      An additional priority in maximizing competition involves elimination
of the practices which are restrictive to competition and trade in the
shipping, telecommunications, and postal services sectors. The Government
plans to review the regulatory and legal framework for telecommunications
during the next 12 months. In the case of shipping, a review will be
completed by mid-1991 of the legal framework for the shipping and freight
industry, including consideration of the levels of competition and the cargo
reserve requirement. The study will also consider revising policies which
require public enterprises to discriminate in favor of the state-owned
shipping industry. Based on this study, measures to promote competition will
be approved by the Cabinet of the Executive Branch and/or submitted to
Congress, if required, by mid-1991. In the meantime, actions are being taken
to reverse misapplication of existing laws and regulations. For example,
automatic waivers of the cargo reserve requirement are being granted to
exporters 48 hours after the request, and enforcement of leasing limits on
national shipping lines has been improved. Moreover, waivers of mandatory
shipping requirements for public enterprises will be granted to the full
extent legally permissible. In addition to these measures in the shipping
sector, barriers to competition arising from the legal framework and practices
of the telecommunications and postal services sector would be reviewed, with
the objective of increasing private sector participation and reducing barriers
to competition. It is expected that any necessary legal changes would be
submitted to Congress by mid-1991.



- 46 -
VJEMZUN U  - PULIC   NPIPMISS EXPOUM LOAN                                 AMUM 2
Policy Letter                                                        Page 6 of 11
Legal. Financial. sod Zastitutional tr*mwork overonmi the
lelatiousip Jet_eem Public Enterrises ad the Central Goveroneat
17.      The  institutional framework governing the relationship between the
Central Government and public enterprises (PRs) has not kept pace with the
rapid growth and econumic dominance of the latter. Tutelary relationships
between the Central Governmnt and PMs are not clear. Government financial
support--both directly through budgetary transfers and indirectly through FIV
loans/equity and guaranteed borrowings under the Public Credit Law--was often
provided without adequate economic and financial justification, clear objec-
tives, or accountability for financial results. In addition, in the past,
public enterprise investment projects (and the associated financing) were
generally approved on a case-by-case basis, without adequate integration into
the Government's overall public investment and borrowing program.
18.      Under the adjustment program, a study will be undertaken of the
financial, legal, and tutelary relationships between PEs and the Central
Government, with a view to clarifying accountability and reporting relation-
ships, establishing appropriate regulatory mechanisms for putblic utilities,
and making recomuendations on appropriate legal and institutional reforms. A
major objective would be introduction of a limited performance agreement
system for those PEs with a major financial impact on Government or whose
services are critical for economic growth. The performance agreements would
set out agreements between the Central Government and the PEs concerning the
enterprise's overall strategy, performance targets, borrowing, investment and
dividend policy, and Government financial support (if any) for agreed public
service functions. The study would also examine the feasibility of
establishing bonuses or penalties for PE managers according to performance.
The study would be completed and an action plan to clarify the PE/Government
relationship adopted (including institution of a performance agreement system)
by mid-1991. Any required legal or regulatory changes would be enacted or
submitted to Congress for approval by early 1992. At least 10 draft
performance agreements (based on approved restructuring programs or for
enterprises receiving Government financial support for public policy objec-
tives) would be prepared by early 1992.
19.      Over the medium term, it is the Government's objective to
substantially reduce transfers to commercially-oriented P8s (with the possible
exception of targetted subsidies in support of well-defined public policy
objectives). In some cases, the Government may continue to finance the
repayment of an enterprise's external debt, primarily in cases where this has
been specified in an approved restructuring program and in accordance with
clear performance targets for the company.  Within this broad policy
framework, it is necessary to differentiate between one-time costs associated
with restructuring (which are expected to increase in the short term) and
traditional operating and capital transfers to PEs. For those PEs being
restructured duriAg the next three years, the Government will likely have to
finance a portion of the unavoidable existing liabilities associated with
restructuring, such as severance pay, unfunded pension liabilities, and
settlement of guaranteed debts to third parties. These costs will be defined
within the context of each individual restructuring program. These
extraordinary costs are expected to take place during 1990-93. Thereafter,
the restructured enterprises are expected to be financially self-sufficient in



- 47 -
VIUL&IA - PBLIC  hEDlPZISZ iZVOU( LOAN                                   AWNEX 2
Policm   Letter                                                     page 7 of 11
their operations (without recourse to budgetary transfers) and *ble to finance
their investments from internally-generated funds and coumercial financiug.
20.      For those remaining commercially-oriented PZs not targetted for
restructuring during the PURL implementation period, it is our objective to
rationalize capital transfers and phase out transfers to cover operating
deficits to these enterprises over a three-year period. with a target
reduction of one-third in 1991 and two-thLrds in 1992. Transfers will be
considered ift (i) an enterprise is formally selected for restructuring (in
which case the level of Government financ al support would be based on the
agreed restructuring program; andlor (ii) the transfer is targetted for a
well-defined public policy objective. To achleve this objective, we will
review all transfers and identify, before approval of the 1991 Budgets (1)
those which are likely to continue over the medium term for public policy
reasons; In these cases, performance agreements will be signed by the end of
the first quarter of 1991 between the Government and the enterprise, setting
out the level of Government financial support and the enterprise's expected
performance targets: (ii) those enterprises which require fundamental
restructuring, in which case they will be added to the restructuring agenda
and restructuring program approved by early 1992; and (iii) those enterprises
for which transfers will be phased out over a three-year period, commencing in
1991.
21.      The objective of financlal self-sufficiency for the PE sector
requires not only substantially reducing direct financial support to public
enterprises over the medium term, but also limiting Government guarantees for
new PE borrowings. We expect that an increasing number of Pgs will be able to
attract commercial non-guaranteed financing as a result of the Government's
rest-ucturing efforts and continued macroeconomic adjustment measures.
Accordingly, over the medium term, it is our objective to limit new loan
guarantees, to the extent possible, to those borrowings which form an integral
part of approved restructuring programs or for PEs providing key public
services.
22.      The accumulation of inter-company arrears, as well as arrears from
Ministries to public enterprises, has created liquidity problems for a number
of entities. Previous attempts to eliminate cross-arrears in the public
enterprise sector through the issuance of long-term Government bonds did not
provide the necessary liquidity to eliminate the arrears nor address the
underlying problems. The Government is currently identifying all major
arrears (over Be 200 million), and will prepare a plan by mid-1991 to settle
these arrears, on a phased basis if necessary, and to introduce measures to
prevent their recurrence. The Government intends to implement necessary
actions by early 1992. In addition to this program, priority enterprises in
financial difficulty will be restructured to address any underlying problem
and prevent a recurrence of arrears.
23*      Given the changing economic and fiscal situation, the Government
recognized the need to fundamentally revise the role and objectives of the
Pondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV). Ceilings were established on the
level of FIV's transfers to PEs during 1989, and FIV's operations underwent
review. In late 1989, the Government decided In principle that the FITV would
withdraw from direct lending and investments and redirect its primary efforts
towards privatization. Draft legislation formalizing these changes has been



- 48 -
VlECIULA - PUBLIC E3?ERPRISS EURSOU LOhN                                 ANNEX 2
Pollcy Letter                                                       Page a of 11
submitted to Congress. The proposed legislation provides for MV's withdrawal
from direct lending and investment, after meeting its existing obligations,
and the reduction of the transfer of petroleum taxe to FIY during the next
five years. Subject to Congressional approval, restructuring of FIV's
organization and functions is expected to begin in 1990.
24.      The Government has also taken steps to reorganize the Corporaci6n
Venezolana de Guayana (CVG), transforming it into a holding company which
would coordinate the majority Government-owned mining, industrial, and power
enterprises located in Guayana. This will give formal recognition to what has
essentially been CVG's de facto role, and will provide an important coordinat-
ing mechanism in a developmentally and environmentally strategic region. The
precise reporting relationships and responsibilities of CVG vis-a-vis its
companies have been defined to allow the boords and management of the indiv-
idua. companies full autonomy on operational matters, while allowing CVG to
play its strategic coordinating role. In this context, CVG's holding company
responsibilities will includes appointment of the President and public sector
board members (except for one member to be appointed by the FIV) for its
companies; approval of uanual business plans and investment programs; monitor-
ing of company performance/operations; and definition of policies and
guidelines to be utilized by the respective company boards in establishing
marketing policies and setting prices for their goods and services. Financial
relationships between CVG companies will be on a commercial basis. CVG
companies will maintain pricing policies which reflect economic opportunity
cost, taking into account the complexities of certain commodity markets, such
as that for the aluminum industry, dominated by a small number of vertically
integrated companies. The transfer price for bauxite is currently established
using as a reference price that of imported bauxite at the Interalumina port.
In the case of alumina, prices are set according to a formula which
establishes a level between the international spot price and the price of
long-term alumina supply contracts at the Interalumina port. A study to
determine more precisely economic opportunity costs for bauxite and alumina
will be undertaken and price adjustments adopted, if necessary, by earl.v 1992.
25.      In recognition of the important environmental issues in tht       sna
region, a new Vice Presidency with responsibility for environmental ,    .s, as
well as science and technology, will be established in CVG. The Vice-
President will coordinate the Government's environmental policy within the
region, identify environmental problems, and work with the enviromental
departments of individual enterprises, to minimize the negative environmental
impact of their operations.
Restructurina of Priority Enterprises
26.      Under the reform program, public enterprises with financial problems
and/or posing bottlenecks to production will be restructured. The agreed
restructuring programs will form the basis for performance agreements between
these enterprises and the Government. The overall objectives of the
restructuring programs will be the following: expand the role of market
discipline in the sector in which the PI operates, through orderly
minimization of barriers to private competition; increase the efficiency of
and provide rational pricing policy for critical public services; and afford
opportunities for private sector development and expansion. As an integral
part of each restructuring plan, the constraints arising from the legal and



- 49 -
VENEZDML& - PULIC ZNTERPUISE REFON  LOAN                                 AMNEX 2
Policy Letter                                                       Page 9 of 11
regulatory environment and the sector policy would be addressed, and
Congressional approval sought where necessary. Each restructuring program
will also include establishment of economic tariff and/or pricing policies.
The restructuring programs will be as comprehensive as necessary, including
for commercial activities an assessment of the desirability of privatizing all
or part of an enterprise's activities, equity andlor assets, aimed at ensuring
competitiveness and financial self-sufficiency. Generally, Government
financial support for restructuring will be limited to settlement of
unavoidable liabilities (e.g., severance pay, unfunded pension liabilities, or
external debts) and not involve financing of new investments, nor future
commitments or liabilities. Moreover, it is expected that, once restructured,
a commercial enterprise would be financially self-sufficient in its opera-
tions.
27.      A group of 8 major PEs has been selected in 1990 for restructuring
(including possible privatization): CADAFE, INOS, INP, CAVN, CANTV, SIDOR,
IPOSTEL, and INAVI. In addition, a second group of three to five major PEs
would be formally selected by mid-1991. During the next two years,
restructuring programs will be prepared and approved for all these
enterprises. Significant progress on implementation of the restructuring
programs will have taken place by 1992. The type of restructuring will vary
by enterprise, depending upon its situation and requirements. Substantial
technical work has already been undertaken in identifying the major issues
confronting CADAPE, INP, INOS, CAVN, and IPOSTEL. Detailed restructuring
programs, calling for fundamental changes, have already been approved for INP,
CADAPE, and INOS, and are sunmarized in annexes to this letter. Substantial
technical work has also taken place in the development of a restructuring
strategy for SIDOR. All restructuring programs (including any proposed
Government financial supportirelief associated with the restructuring) will be
reviewed and approved by the IIAC for Restructuring and by the Cabinet. The
Committee will establish an annual agenda, setting out restructuring
priorities for the coming year and a timetable for the preparationlreview of
restructuring programs. Agreements will be signed with the enterprises
setting out the restructuring measures to be implemented and performance
targets for the restructured company.
28.      In the case of SIDOR, several steps would be taken in the next 12
months to prepare & final restructuring program for the company. An agreement
between the INC for Restructuring and SIDOR would be signed, setting out the
strategy for finalization of a restructuring program. In addition, no
Government guarantee of new investment financing will be provided, pending
completion of a review of the company's proposed investment program and its
consistency with the current focus on competitiveness and financial self-
sufficiency. The review would utilize international expertise in the steel
sector and would be completed by July 1990. A complete restructuring plan,
based on a market assessment and taking into account the results of the
investment program review, would be designed in 1990 and approved by the
Cabinet by mid-1991.
29.      In the case of EDELCA, an agreement was signed earlier this year to
compensate the company for the financial cost associated with the revaluation
of its foreign debt. The agreement provides that EDELCA will present to the
Government a comprehensive adjustment plan for the period 1991-93, covering
the following aspects: a revised organizational structure; tariff structure



- 50 -
VUNEULA - PULIC ZINEUPRISE 311031 LOAN                                   ANNEX 2
Policy Letter                                                      Page 10 of 11
adjustmentsx operational costst and project and budget control systems. This
plan vil be presented and approved by end-1990. The adjustment plan would
reflect the Government's goal of setting tariffs according to LIMC principles
within four years. Given that continued Government transfers will be
necessary to support EDILCA's investment program, a performance agreement will
be signed and updated periodically to ensure efficient operations.
Privatiation Proaram
30.      As part of the broader economic reform program, the Government
launched a privatization program, not only to reduce the size of the public
sector, but also to attract new capital, management, and technology Into
economically viable enterprises and to broaden ownership through privatiza-
tion. The initial group targetted for privatization includes enterprises in
the financial, tourism, and light manufacturing sectors. As the adjustment
program progresses, the scope of the privatization program will be broadened
to include larger enterprises. The INC for Privatization has already approved
roughly 100 holdings for privatizations valuations have been completed for 8
of these holdings. By mld-1991, valuations will be completed for at least 10
additional holdings. By early 1992, the Government expects to have brought to
point of sale (valuations and other preparatory actions completed) holdings
with an asset value of at least US$150 million.
31.      The program will be Implemented on the basis of the following
principless (i) enterpriseslassets will be priced realistically, to reflect
market value; ($1) no protection or special privileges will be granted to
purchasers; and (III) no Government financing or loan guarantees will be
provided to purchasers.
Social and Financial Imvact of PR leform Program
32.      While the rationalization program for public enterprises will
strengthen both the public finances and the economic base, its impact will be
painful during the program's initial years. Restructuring of major enter-
prises in financial difficulty may entail redeployment, as well as unavoidable
liabilities for the Government. The Government has recently introduced a
national unemployment insurance program, to facilitate the redeployment of
labor to new economic opportunities. In addition to this national initiative,
as part of each restructuring or privatization operation for major
enterprises, an axplicit analysis of the social and financial impact of the
operation will be undertaken. An appropriate allocation will be Included in
the annual Government budget to be submitted to Congress, to address these
potential costs and liabilities associated with restructuring and
privatization.
33.      The process of public enterprise reform, though well-launched, will
require some years to reach completion. Nevertheless, some major structural
changes are expected to result in the next five years. New investment in
commerc$al actitivies will be predominantly private, and private investment is
expected to expand both in real terms and as a percentage of GDP. With regard
to public utilities, a substantial Improvement is expected in the quality of
telephone, water, ports, and electricity servlces, accompanied by an expansion
in private participation, through concessions and management contracts. With
the restructuring of major PEs in financial difficulty, we expect that Central



- 51 -
YB3NZLA - PIUNIC UUTPUR SI 3R8K LOAN                                    ANNEX 2
Policy Letter                                                     Page 11 of 11
Government transfers can be substantially reduced, permitting improved fiscal
performance. Finally, the productivity of PE assets remaining In the public
sector is expected to improve with restructuring and increased competltion and
market discipline.



- 52 -
ATTAUMEN  1
to Policy Letter
DESTRUCTURING OF TEE PORTS SECTOR
1.       The maritime foreign trade of Venezuela amounts to approximately
35 million tons per year, excluding petroleum. The ports that handle this
trade can be divided into four institutional groups: a) CVG ports for bulk
materials and the general cargo inputs and outputs of the CVG industries;
these are located on the River Orinoco, with a floating terminal for iron-
ore transference at the mouth of the river; b) petroleum ports of Lake
Maracaibo; c) other industrial terminals; these are "single industry'
located mostly in the North Coast and in Lake Maracaibo; and d) National
Port Institute (INP) ports; these handle general cargo, containerized
cargo, and some bulks, and are located on the-North Coast and in Lake
Maracaibo.
2.       Of these ports, the CVG ports handle the greatest tonnage, with
21.5 million in 1988, including iron ore. Next come the public ports of
INP with 9.7 million tons, and then the private terminals with 4.3 million
tons. The INP ports handle over 90S of the general cargo and practically
all the containerized traffic of Venezuela. Containerized traffic now
exceeds one million tons per annum and has grown at a rate of 21Z per annum
since 1986.
3.       In principle, INP is responsible for the provision of labor,
equipment, and all services within its ports. These activities suffer from
low productivity, low equipment availability, and lack of suitable equip-
ment for efficient container handling. The private sector now de facto
does much of the work with its own labor and equipment, while still paying
INP tariffs and subject to the restrictive practices of INP's agreement
with labor. The combination of high costs and an out-of-date tariff struc-
ture has meant that INP does not cover its operating costs and has required
direct subsidy from the state in recent years. A commission established in
April 1989 to evaluate and make recommendations on the operations of INP
estimates that total government support to INP during the last 10 years
amounted to Bs 6 billion, including debt assumption. On account of the
problems in INP ports, the shipping conferences have applied various cargo
surcharges for congestionlefficiency and port cost differential. The cost
of these for the nation, excluding monetary and fuel surcharges, is
probably on the order of US$30-50 million per year.
4.       There has been no clear tariff policy for the public ports.  The
present tariff level is low, contributing to INP's financial problems.
Nevertheless, the operation's inefficiency is such that the total cost of
port services to the user is extremely high. Port users currently pay less
for INP tariffs than they incur in the cost of supplementing deficiencies
with their own labor and equipment. A revised tariff schedule is now
before the Economic Cabinet for approval.



- 53 -
ENBZUWL& - POLICY LETUlR                                         ITTACUENT 1
Ports Sector Restructuring                                                 z.
5.      Port labor is well organized and has achieved a very favorable
labor agreement, both in its conditions and in the protection it offers.
In the face of this problem, management has been weak, and there have been
many problems of an administrative and financial nature. The labor agree-
ment is seen as the essential obstacle to progress in the ports, preventing
the achievement of benefits from modernization. This agreement is a
contract between INP and the labor unions, which can only be modified or
cancelled by mutual agreement or by the dissolution of one or both of the
signatories. The INP has also suffered from underinvestment; the last
period of port construction and re-equipping was 1978-80, so that installa-
tions are obsolete, there are no specialized container terminals, and
equipment is mostly inoperative. As a result, the private sector has had
to bring in its own equipment and labor, despite its obligation to pay
port charges. Port inadequacies are now a serious obstacle to the growth
of trade in non-bulks.
5.       Because of the above factors, the Foreign Trade Institute (ICE)
and other cargo and shipping interests have been outspoken in expressing
their belief that the reforms of the INP ports are essential and urgent.
The Government is convinced of the need for major reform of the public
ports and has appointed a new President of INP, with a mandate to find a
solution. A mixed privatelpublic sector commission was established in
April 1989, basically to propose alternative schemes for increased private
participation in the ports and the compensation of surplus INP labor.
Following the work of the commission, the Government established in October
1989 a committee of four ministers and the president of INP to define a
solution to the company's problems. This committee received a paper pre-
pared by the President of INP, setting out the implications of two basic
options: a continuation of present policies with gradual improvements; or
the total restructuring of INP, including rationalization of its work force
with compensation package. This paper has now been considered by the
Cabinet, and the second option adopted with the concurrence of the labor
unions.
6.       The major features of the restructuring program include the
following:
a)       INP's dissolution (or transformation), and establishment of a
successor body as rector for the port sector, but with minimal
operational responsibilities. The principal functions of this
body will be the regulation and planning of the sector;
b)       Cancellation of the existing labor agreement.  This will involve
payment of substantial compensation to the INP labor force, who
will leave the industry or seek employment with private sector
employers. A small number may be re-employed by the successor
body to the INP; and
c)       Reorganization of the way the work of cargo handling is done, by
granting concessions for specialized terminals and for non-
specialized berths. In addition, management contracts and lease/
transfer arrangements are also being analyzed.



- 54 -
VENEZULRA   POLICY LETTER                                       ATTACHMI?E   1
Ports Sector Restructurina                                                 3.
7.       The new policy has the Administration's support, and is in line
with current Bank thinking for the port sector. During the next 12 months,
the Bank will provide the Government with technical assistance to:
i) define the operation and functions of the new rector agency (which could
be a new agency or INP transformed); ii) design the concession system and
define its policies and procedures: and iii) re-examine the tariff struc-
ture and levels in line with the new organization. This work would be
coordinated by a a group consisting of representatives from the appropriate
institutions and reporting to the DMC for Restructuring.
8.       The implementation plan would proceed according to the following
timetablet
August 1, 1990                       Consultants in place
November 1, 1990                     Preparation of detailed timetable and
cost estimates
Design functions of new regulatory
agency; design concession system
February 1, 1991                     Preparation of new legal & regulatory
framework and submission to Congress
July 1, 1991                         Complete discharge of personnel
Establish new regulatory agency
Consultant services would be used in the preparation and implementation of
the above, and are estimated at about US$2 million in total.



- 55 -
ATTACUMENT 2
to Policy Letter
RESTRUCRUING PROG OAM R CF DAOR
Backtround
1.       The organization of the power sector in Venezuela is complex.
involving a large number of institutions having overlapping responsibilities.
without a clearly defined rgulatory framework. There are four Government-
owned public utility companies and seven private power companies. The
national utilities include the following:
-        EDELCA (C.V.G. Electrificacion del Caroni, C.A.), organized in 1963
with the main purpose of developing the hydro potential of the Caroni
River, where the Guri dam is located;
-        ENELVEN (C.A. Energia Electrica de Venezuela) operates in the western
part of the country, in the area surrounding Maracaibo;
-        ENELBAR (C.A. Energia Electrica de Barquisimeto) serves exclusively
the city of Barquisimeto); and
-        CADAFE (Compaflia An6nima de Desarrollo y Fomento Electrico),
organized in 1957 through the merger of a number of small utility
companies to implement the national electricfication plan.
Of the seven private power companies, the most important is EdC (C.A. La
Electricidad de Caracas), which supplies electricity to Caracas and is the
parent company of three other smaller private companies, CALEV, EELEGGUA, and
CALEY. The others are ELEVAL, ELEBOL, and CALIFE, all very small entities.
2.       Under the current institutional arrangements, which are still
evolving, several Government agencies are in charge of guiding and regulating
the power companies. The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEN) has overall
responsibility for formulating the country's energy policies and serving as
the sector's principal regulatory agency. However, lacking the necessary
authority and technLcal capacity to discharge its responsibilities, this
Ministry has never played a very dominant role. MEN's authority has been
undermined further by the requirement that all national utilities report
directly to the FIV, their majority shareholder. In addition, EDELCA, which
operates in the Guayana region, must report to CVG, although CVG is only a
minority shareholder of EDELCA. Moreover, the Ministry of Development is
responsible for approving tariff adjustments. The lack of clarity with
respect to the roles and responsibilities of these supervisory agencies has
been a constant source of conflict within the sector. The absence of an
adequate legallinstitutional framework has impaired sector performance in the
following ways a) investments in capacity expansion have generally not
followed least-cost principles; b) tariff structures are not appropriate; and
c) there has been a lack of financial discipline and inadequate incentives for
efficiency improvements.



- 56 -
VEZ_UEL& - POLICYLETSER                                             ATTACHMENT 2
Restructurint Proraum for CADAPE                                               2.
3.       Tariffs.   The Government has recently taken certain actions to
improve tariff levels and structure. In March 1989, the Government issued a
decree, which called for an increase of 30? for residential consumers and 502
for industrial consumers, and monthly adjustments (for a period of 20 months
ending in March 1991) of 3Z for residential consumers and 5t for industrial
consumers. The decree froze tariffs for residential users who consume less
than 125 KWH per month. The decree did not modify the tariffs charged by
EDELCA, the principal generating company. While average 1989 tariffs for
CADAFE were slightly over half the estimated operating costs, monthly
adjustments in rates should yield a real improvement, equivalent to about 25Z
this year. In addition, in February 1990, a decree to establish a Tariff
Committee was issued, providing broad guidelines for tariff setting,
recognizing the right of power utilities to obtain a maximum rate of return on
rev.lued assets. Additionally, the Tariff Commission is initiating a study to
define pricing policy on the basis of Long-Run Marginal Cost principles;
preliminary results would be reviewed in early 1991.
RestructurinQ Program for CADAFE
4.       CADAFE's complex and inefficient organization is currently inadequate
for its objectives. The company suffers from serious administrative and
service problems, including poor inventory control, frequent power failures
resulting from lack of maintenance, and high losses (averaging 38?, but
reaching 72Z in the western area near Maracaibo Lake). In addition, labor
management is extremely complex, with more than 14,000 workers dispersed among
241 offices in an area of 833,000 sq.km., as well as a powerful labor union.
The company is currently in financial straits and unable to service its own
debt.
5.       There are four major reasons for CADAFE's difficulties.  First, in
the past decade, CADAPE's clear mandate has been to provide electricity to all
Venezuela, even the most isolated towns and areas, without regard to cost. In
this respect, CADAFE has been successful: in 30 years, it has increased the
coverage of its service from 30X to 92Z. A second problem derives from the
structure of its markets: the enterprise serves a great majority of medium-
and smaller-sized cities, as well as towns and villages, where provision of
service implies higher unit costs because of the geographical dispersion and
the lower consumption of the typical user. Of the four large cities in
Venezuela, three are served by private enterprises. Other problems include,
inter alia, discontinuity in management; excessive bureaucracy; rigid and
inadequate procedures; and inappropriate labor agreements. Finally, the
massive, highly centralized organization of CADAEE is inappropriate for its
needs, given that it has a capacity of about 5,000 KW, in 225 units, within 39
plants, serving over 1.7 million customers, located far from Caracas.
6.       A solution has been designed, with consultant support, which consists
of the company's complete reorganization, through a process of
decentralization and regionalization of its activities. The new
reorganization proposes the creation of 4 regional distribution companies, a
generation and transmission company, and one or more service companies (i.e.,
maintenance and computer services), with all the companies reporting to a
holding company (Casa Matriz CADAFE). This proposal has been agreed to by the
Cabinet. In addition, the Interministerial Commission for Restructuring,



- 57 -
VENEZUELA - POLICY LETTER                                           ATTACUE?NT 2
RestructurinQ Prosram for CADAFE                                               3.
established subsequent to approval of the CADAFE restructuring plan, is
reviewing this plan in the context of the priorities of the overall power
sector. In this regard, the rationale for establishment of the holding
company and the services companies would be re-evaluated. Within an overall
conceptual framework of decentralization of activities, regionalization of
services, and privatization of distribution functions, modifications to the
original restructuring plan, to accomodate better the objectives of sector
strategy, could be made.
0
7.       To further the objective of decentralization, some activities have
already been transferred to appropriate regional companies. Specifically, the
distribution activities of CADAFE in the Costa Oriental del Lago Region (Zulia
State) were transferred to a newly created company, Energia Electrica de la
Costa Oriental del Lago (ENELCO), run and administered by ENELVEN. A similar
scheme is now being proposed-by ENELBAR, with respect to distribution
activities of CADAFE in Lara and Yaracuy, and plans are to implement the
proposal in early 1991. Other cases in different regions (Miranda, Aragua,
Bolivar, etc.) are currently being analyzed and might prove to be candidates
for similar measures in the near future.
8.       The following timetable has been agreed to regarding execution of the
CADAFE restructuring program and its review in the context of the strategy for
the power sector:
Complete detailed design and cost estimates
for regional distribution companies and
ratioralization of labor                             December 1990
Establish regional distribution companies               June 1992
Complete evaluation of holding, service,
and generation and transmission companies
and define strategy                                  March 1991
Complete detailed design of transfer of
Uribante Caparo (hydro development) to
its own authority under the Ministry
of Environment                                        February 1991



- 58 -
ATTAC3EBN S
to Policy Letter
RESTRUCTURING OF THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEVERaGE SECTOR
Introduction
1.       Venezuela's water and sewerage sector is facing a severe crisis.
The National Institute of Sanitation Works (INOS), a semi-autonomous agency
responsible for providing drinking water and sewerage services in the
country's urban areas, is unable to adequately operate and maintain the
water supply systems under its responsibility, increasingly dependent on
transfers from the Central Government, and has failed to effectively and
economically carry out capital investments. As a prerequisite for more
efficient and accelerated sector development, the Venezuelan Government
recognizes the need fort (a) a fundamental reorganization of the sector,
including the liquidation of INOS and the establishment of autonomous
local/regional water supply and sewerage enterprises; and (b) a new
financial and tariff policy, which would commit these new enterprises to
become financially self-sufficient and independent of Government transfers.
Below, we describe the main ingredients of the sector reform which the
Government plans to undertake under the Public Enterprises Reform Loan
(PERL) and in preparation for a proposed Water Supply Sector Loan.
Restructurina of the Sector's Institutional Setup
2.       The present institutional framework would be abolished and
replaced with a decentralized setup, reflecting the Government's decision
to transfer responsibility for operation of the water supply and sewerage
systems to the local/regional level. The new system of sector management
and operation is expected to bring about a clear separation between the
normative and regulatory functions, which would be carried out by a
national institution, and the operational functions, which would become the
responsibility of local/regional jurisdictions, i.e., municipalities,
states, and regional assoUsations.  The fundamental characteristics of the
sector organization and the responsibilities of the new sector institutions
are described below.
3.       On the national level, implementation of the Governmnt's sector
policy and the normative and regulatory functions would be transferred to a
new sector lead institution, HIDROVEN. This new agency, under the Ministry
of the Environment and Renewable Resources (MARNR), would be responsible
for: (a) implementation of the Government's sectoral policies;
(b) sectorwide planning, including review of the sector's investment
program and projects; (c) establishment of technical norms and guidelines;
(d) sectorwide monitoring, including keeping track of the technical,
financial, and institutional performance of the operating enterprises;
(e) provision of technical assistance and training to operating entities;
and (f) research. HIDROVEN would have no operational or executive
functions and no jurisdiction over the management of operating enterprises.
It would not carry out investment projects. This latter responsibility
would be assumed by the new local/regional enterprises.



- 59 -
VENEZUEL& - POLICY LETTER                                        ATTACHMENT 3
]estructurins of the Water Supply and Sewerate Sector                       2.
4.       The operating cost of HIDROVEN would be met from the national
budget. HIDROVEN's senior executive officer, to be nominated by the
Minister of MARNR, would be a recognized professional with substantial
experience in the water supply and sewerage sector. The new agency's staff
should not exceed about 150. Employment conditions should be such that
HIDROVEN could attract sufficiently experienced and qualified
professionals.
5.       At the locallregional level, responsibility for managing and
operating water supply and sewerage systems is expected to be transferred
to municipal, state, or regional water supply and sewerage enterprises.
The delegation of part or all of the operating functions to private
contractors would be encouraged. The new operating enterprises should be
fully autonomous and independent of HIDROVEN in terms of their operational
and financial management. -The new enterprises will be encharged of the
procurement of goods and services and the execution and financing of
investment projects. The maximum authority of these new enterprises would
be an independent executive board, appointed by the appropriate local
authorities. The management of the new enterprises would be empowered to
establish working conditions which would enable them to attract and retain
sufficiently experienced and qualified staff, unencumbered by existing
trade union agreements. With introduction of the new financial sector
policy, they are expected to charge a level of rates sufficient to allow
them to be financially self-sufficient.
New Financial and Rate Policy
6.       The Government's new financial and rate policy for the water
supply and sewerage sector will aim at making the new local/regional
enterprise financially self-sufficient, i.e., with income from tariffs
sufficient to meet all administrative, maintenance, and operating costs,
debt service requirements, and allow an adequate participation in the
financing of new investments. As a general principle, the new operating
enterprises must be made progressively responsible for financing capital
investments from their owm internally-generated funds. Government
sulbsidies to the sector must be discontinued, save for special justified
cases, on demonstrable poverty grounds. The new financial policy and
adjustment of water and sewer rates would be introduced gradually, over a
three-year period ending in mid-1993. It would require that the rates be
set separately for each operating enterprise, according to its specific
cost structure and investment needs.
Plan of Action and Timetable
7.       Regardinx the sector's reorganization:
(a)      by September 30, 1990, presentation by the Government of a
detailed plan for the creation of HIDROVEN, including proposed by-
laws, statement of responsibilities, organization plan, staffing,
employment conditions, etc.;
(b)      by March 31, 1991, existence of a fully-staffed and operational
HIDROVEN;



- 60 -
V3KEZUZL& - POLICY LITU                                          3AACEYT 3
Restructuring of the Water Supply aud Sewerage Sector                       3.
(c)      by September 30, 1990, presentation of a detailed description of
the proposed reorganization and of a plan of action which describe
the process of transfer of operating responsibilities from INOS to
localiregional enterprises;
(d)      the existence of new, fully autonomous local/regional enterprises,
in accordance with attributes and conditions described in para. 3;
(i) in more than 252 of the states by June 30, 1991t (ii) in half
of the states by December 31, 1991; and (iii) in all states by
December 31, 1992:
(e)      reduction of INOS' functions and the transfer and/or rationali-
zation of its personnel by no later than December 31, 1992, in
accordance with the following schedules (i) one-third of the
present staff by June 30, 1991; (ii) two-thirds by December 31,
1991; and (iii) all staff by December 31, 1992.
8.       Regardins the new financial and rate policys
(a)      establishment of a commission to study and decide on a new
sectoral policy by July 30, 1990;
(b)      presentation of terms of reference for a comprehensive study to
define a new sectoral financial and rate policy, in line with the
principles outlined in para. 6 by September 30, 1990;
5C)      presentation of draft recommendations for the new financial and
rate policy by February 28, 1990;
sd)      legal adoption of the new policy by March 31, 1991;
*e)      reduction of central Government operating subsidies to operating
enterprisess (i) to 702 of the 1990 value for 1991; (ii) to 402
of 1990 value in 1992; and (iii) to 102 of 1990 value in 1993;
(f)      definition of a plan by September 30, 1990, for introduction of
provisional periodic rate increases for all existing water supply
and sewerage agencies, which should at minimum compensate for the
prevailing rate of inflation; and
(g)      definition of a program of rate increases for water supply and
sewerage services for the new local-regional enterprises, follow-
ing the principles established in the Government's new financial
and rate policy, in accordance with the plan of the creation of
the new local/regional enterprises referred to in para. 7(d).



VE LA - bK  Nacroecene  tmc Iudtora
ebt t{t   Scenaio
A a t u a l         Proti. Est1"to   P r ojIeet Ion s
Kwtil 11MOA   It                         t84    19      1906    tw       19a     190      t9w0    1OUt    t"2              1994 
.    ....A..... ...... 0... ....       ..................................................................... 
P 6A                                      .1.41    0.3S    5.21    4.51    6.21   68.11    5.31    5.21   S.O       4.61    4.63    4.6
my 011411                                 O.1t   .2.9    -O.o4     S21    4.11   S..        S.6     5.11    5.21    S.05    5.01    s.1
SIlhplts  siuth SAte                     -.2.71   *5.71   .3.1    2.5%    13 n1   -6.12    3.2.    2.71    2.71    2.7       2.4      2.96
Privt. w Cuiumpiv~t Ou -tIb ate  S         .e.   -5.11    7.1     0.4      S.51   -7.1     0.1X    0.4S    16o      1.23    1t.6     2.2X
tft owvlee (Mu mdiie                    475A.4  4290.   4191.2  4649.0  409P.0  5152.0  4990.9  361.7  378.1  4703.7  4902.9  565MJ
Sebi OW*vkn                               V.21   24.51   4.41  3V.21   39.21   34.S5   31.1X   20.21   19.21   21.51   20.21   21.21
O"e SOg9eU                                6.1X    6.91    6.2X   10.61    0.31   12.71   11.81    T.71    7.51    6.51    .ot    6.4
grew find   'ass"lmm P                    14.01   15.S1   20.31   21.X   2t.91   17.31   19.91   21.9    23.71   2.43  23.11   25.31
IAet a SwlqaPn                           3.21   20.63   20.41   23.1%   20.63   23.31X   25.01   25.91   26.41   27.53   20.2s    2.?r
btluia  Otw_lip                           2L2.    15.21   1741   19.91   17.43   17.11   20.?1   22.51   23.31   24.51   25.4X   26.01
hut _instle Swq   ate                      ..       ..      ..    45.41   13.31   53.81   65.51   47.31   3S5.S   3U.91   33.4    27.51
_ule Flino   I     _                     6.31    6.41   12.11   1O."3   10.71   10.6X  '11.5    12.31   12.91   13.11   1311t  13.11
_le IN"        t16.91   17.                               12.31   10.31    4.64    9.4    12.4    16.31   16.42   16.71   13.91   19.2n
PrivO f1   3b"n         P                 9.51   10.41    S.       11.21   12.11     .3X    S.4"    9.43   10.61   11.5    12 .      t 122
Prpimte ttl_i  lek e                      5.11   -2.L"     5."3    9.6    13.61    7.51    6.01    6.21    4.91    1.61    6.51    6.61
b tto et PAIcvMte Ibm_t                  ".33   61.51  147.2Z5 "5.0    66.51  137.61  171  128.71  119.91  114.63  10.4   107.31
busiwomet IAruwmaaiU                     31.61   30.01   26.11   2S.91   24.61   31.41   33.61   35.51   37.4  s3.T1   37.41   37.41
Cb^"luW,.M    _IItIwIru4p                2V. 3    25.D    30.61   30.91   32.6S   32.6S   34.11   33.61   33.5S   33.51   33.11   32.0S
Oe1let (S W  "a (*)I WP                   4.1      4.61   A2.43    2.0X   -6.31   -1.41   -0.5n    2.51    3.91    4.1S    4.31    4.71
Relprt Wib bu   11                       15.91    1.61    5.11n   1.71    T.91    2.1S    9.4       6.21    5.91    S.8      5.51    4.91
UIrPfSIVU   21                           20.3S   2S.6    19.61   21.41   20.71   33.31   36.71   35.11   35.dx   36.21   36.61   37.19
i5o t Or"stI big  21                     56.11  -11.61   21.1    2.21   16.9%  -33.01   SO3.4    11.41   10.61    6.4        5.91    5.31
IqwoteIS   V                             17.61   16.06   201S  23.4S   n.3x   24.21   29.71   31.51   33.3X   33na          34.06   34.01
CtUnrt A     tnUS1 (MI Sttm)           4590.0  3694.0 -1105.0 -1103.0 -4513.0  1839.0   332.0    62.0  -446.    311.7 r 111.5   191.1
eXmnt *ImuIotIUP                          7.91    6.61   .2.51   *2.41   -7.5s    4.43    0.61    O.J1   -0.91   .0.63   -0.21    O.31
~~~~~~~~... ......................................... 0......................................................... ......................................... 
11 A1 SP re;;; we at cur"t primes.                                                                                              9424rAm
V   wtb  id lo       ofrte o5  ad t Rwfeeto  smicWe Matleawi Atesunte).                                                          06:36 PW



IUEIA - MAAr  OF PAWN_"
-U#  Uluiw 00o            prig")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ..O............................... # .......................................... 
Aatol   prsu.Elsthmb  Projeetions
"IS    "lo                t NP   t90       9      1942    If"     1094    "PS    199t       _9      190
~~~~~~~~~~~~................ 0.................. .......................................................... ... 0............  
AO  bW at. _orb a Ws3                  10111.0 112M.0 11t0 153.1 142.3 16221.4 180.5 20132.6 2336.3 24880.  26.5  06.4  345.4
1. Uu651an am                                wr.o 1OM.  I9.  126.0  135t4.1  U .9  1601.4  t8t.t  370.A  2sCI4.T 257M.0  2512   31899.
L. U-far aswOu                         W90   112.0       7.0   1"0.1  tt2t.2  1240.7  1373.0  15A8.  14.7  1"6.1  1053.$  0259.    2 4 .r
6.        - uof lam     t we           160.0    O .0  13114301WO  90.  037.2  54510.8 147.3 10 t8.5.0 W     M0?U.4 22=M.1  24459.1 273bD.6  29964.3
W.   _2.0  6Z02.0 11414.0  n138.1  0Wo4A  ttiM.6 13446.6 1496.3 t6S77.2 16239..9 19395 216t1.6  23911.3
L.  -.-mftar egwlms                   11199.0  2666.0  813.O  2L0.6  2542.6  256.3  3420.6  35t1.?  42t7.2  4460.1  50S6.6  5S46.6   602.9
6.  bla" es m lime                       50      190.0 .2740.0  4400.0  2145.1  1434.6  1A5r.1  1337.5  150.0  300.0   2W66.O  3469.3   4391.1
0.  Iat 7u 1r I                       . J14.    M-117.0 -16.0 -5m7.0 .1673.o .1432.5  54654  *1500.9 *-56s.S -.5t.r1  -46.      W.1gJ   -5Sr9.t
1. r_n   assspgt                      SM.   141.0  164.0  142.0  151.1  1616A.  16t15    1I.S  "So6.7  5976.2  2.0  2127.6                  14.1
8. bO w oPa                           3257.0  8100.0  323.0 3t66.0   5 84.2  3068.8  3277.2  34AJ.?  3532.2  369.9  3715.7  378.    37.2
(lutwut 0 Ms                       3609.0  3674.0  X36L62    3621.0  297.3  2747.4  29n5.8  W03A.4  303.5  3146.S             31*0.9   3111.6
L   1st Wrm  Tmlforu                     -n.0  .13.0   1.0   -W3.0  -140.0  -140.0  -*40.0  .140.0  .140.0  .140.0  -146.0  -140.0   .140.0
1    oo*  natin0a 1.0   12.0   13.0   137.O   140.0   140.0                                    40 4.0   140.0   i4.6 t40.0   140.0    140.0
P.   wovud Aomis   I                   -1050 .1103.0 t45LO   1M.0   332.0    42.0  .440.4  -31t.?  -1l.5   1.W1  1040.2  1409.0   2672.0
.  Ugtwin _ti lUnw                     -1.? . 1490.    119.0  II.116   217.7   524.6  2n3.4  1o.?  taLr  1s.   1s6.3s  7n.s    317.6
1. Int o      t _Las ***I tW   mp         .     21.0    0.    1.0   461.0   470.0  0so.0  530.0   51.0              0.0  640.0    5.e    7o
L. 0ff4 Cqfts                           34.0   .1.6   .311.0   -29.0   -34.0   .40.0   47.0 r      3.0   -5S.0   r.57.    -0.0   .63.0    -6.o
L. be Ll tom                         -141      405.7    .  U4 1177.0   5724  1401.7   914.6  1733.4  1123.7  low.7   024   96.3   160.5   .286.4
0. 23ss-                            470.    5-10   1763.0  21A.  3483.3  22569  309.9  3016.   2613.   3061.0  3253.   342.1   356.1
b. mg I        1/          cl   1 .   11ST7.   1421.4  2181.4  1344.3  1336.5  1391.4   MA49.9  Z255.35  7.3   36                       3851.S
4. Sau wI lfln cow1   IV                0.0     L0.     L0 3O .4   240.0    00.0   150.0  120.0    73.0    40.0            0.0     0.0      0.0
3.     Ode     Ib _     S              .1614.J  1413.0     1.0 .10 o3012.1  .44A4  -460.0  .564.1  .550.1  -311.   4613.3  -5.4   -.s5A
1. 165 got W     EI- SI               105.90  22.  91 3.0 .3647.0   405A         71.4    90.3    15.9    14.2   -4.4   -3   -26.4    -47.4
L toi_  ft.M .3.   W                  -M1.$  -0.0  .105.0  -1015.0 -42.7 -1016.0  -1650.3           .0 -14.3  -3064 .1050.0 *1050.0  -5050.0
L S&MO ad m   ds_lm     4/           .1954J    US    -flo  2917.0   M30.   500.0   500.0   50o.o   500.0   500.    500.0   500.0    500.0
1.  &wgins _  M   .ewl 363.6  115.0 8                    75.0  -1Wr.   M7     -1142.0 -1427.  -0.9  -97.1 -*16.6 -1963.1 -5S6.2  -2622J
1. b       t     "am   W                0.0    0.6       0.0    A.0  WA.4  160.0   67.3  -371.9  -57.   -67.0   -7                -62.    -67.
t. sew     u   au.   . d.0 MA   115.0  41.04 -215.0  -15.1 -747.0 105.2 N                       -5O.9  -361.4  -5.0  -1270.3 -t115.4  -1749.5
in                 0..... ..... __............ ~........................................
V/ Cwlta ot a am dftf4p1ty WM.6                                                                                                           01:34 UN
V             t  pints Is------ coupS p1w fmb mod for *t _uaxlam apao tles.
4/ UIGwn    *a         S asuedeuin Ms astlaStad by gswemt CiU b _ Mt eltd f1l1t). Futre is projected rwer  aopitat ftlfst.



w~-S
| rw~
.... .......0................................................_ 
WsS      w    U      tr u0o1 au   st rt  W r*   W"       Wu     urc    A      WU   O o            d      ssuuw qpm  a
*'t     Wu   tril tr Wut #,$    W'S   W#    Wu   nor"   WWV                   son  IS'S                       Wa1I d  0
re       u ru    s    rw   sr,   rs   res   A*s    r,   son sw rw                    _o 
t'     V      son   to      Va    9"    to        tn *au    Ts    ra          r        g"spO   WAW  -n  "W  _*e
Olt  _9       99    Al .t 4A    VI,   So    VA    't            VA  *t         6    VS                                "O  o u,*s
s'     ra n  05, ram   srnt rau   ran   uan  rem   raw  rum   ram   ram                             w    N '    isluu un 0
041   *4°U 11, 041    El041    41    D            41   *'1611  t*'4l  *'     *'41   0461            (UP    39 *.S P1W
rOe t*  9' it' *VW1 £' m    s tuu  *  W  t'SW    ri    ss    45m             rWu   ow.                  MU" Pin,MOinwg
9'ege  W""o. rewu 9'11L  *riitl i'smn rzms r6a" *'em  rume  tons Wm"s ruMO                             (aum dme No) an
*       ra~vlw.  o'pweo s,s,s yese  r.uss SWIS  r'imS rowm  remi orum  £                rAus ram                     "a   "PusW.1w)
re t     O-   *.    r'I-    's t0o-   got   I'S   A'9    i's    re*   0*                                 Ws W4 sow so _  1I
*        9~~~fr  6'S    619   all    All      1    Vrt    ft9   #I9    lot    no-   it-   na                to all) -.am ,tif A' 
Olt    $or    9'1     '     Ile-   910.   *'@-   i@o    reS   got   I'd.   93'   Vt'Z                  53W 3.01 391  1
St     6'S    At .t   o's    IS            is    6'S    49    re        'S    *'s    VS                    u4 5   1 "Ws 3
6vt    i9    6c    S'S    93    93    got    LS    I's    S'S&   Vt-   Ss    too                               I GOM   I's
......... ... . ..
so"    Ad"    W45   au4    Wi    6        Da"    Wu4   aM"    as    au        m     UK
.oLg. t*l|a**Jd  * u^n3'WW            1 @  ) 3
..    .............'..
(W_J4 W U 39 IIU-



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
VENIEZLELA - Projected Laq-t. Fftl1"ng Reoquf1r  t
................... .................................... 
CUSS *illiem, WWot  *VW*")
........ .................................._.................
1056-89           190-2             19-"95
temss O*sbument                           ..............                      .......
==................. ..
Lung-Term Sources:
Nttilterol                               MA.4             1225.5             32.0
Of 16ch 13,                             U.S             8S5.0              4.4
Oflaterat                                91.8              396.3            201.2
Sipplfrs* Credits                        433.7            84.0             1319.3
Ffneafol Mrkets to "Li   Sector         428.9              M.3              100.0
hivate Mo-OAmatsed Lt                     31.0             240.0            525.0
tM  Purdh "e                            249.5             141.5               0.0
Pinnsial S6p                              0.0                0.0              0.0
MOTAL                          1367.2            400.6            2977.6
Oat D0isuramnts
_.................
Lun-tem Soures
Mut'lti lsatl                            109.5            125S.9            6".2
of  1dnic  13o                          15.2             615.0            373.0
3atertal                                 -39.9             247.9             96.2
qApltfs Credits                         201.4             453.0            42.6
Finacialst Neot  to PhlI@  Sco          *WA.t             -13.9             -8.4
Psi vats Nhn.Serntsed LT                -518.3             153.7            361.3
IMP Odise                               AM9.5             1419.9            539.1
Net lhot-ftm ft                         2.0                337.6             267.9
Finaniatl 6                               0.0                0.0              0.0
tTAL                          .13                3?9.2             1219.9
.       .     .. ....... .................... . .
0436M



-  65 -                                                        3
Page 5 of 5
VENEZUELA - Debt Service  ssutirtins
.*.... ..............................
(USS millions, afniual average)
1986-89           1990-92            1993-95
Principal Repayments                                 .......            -------           -------
..... ..............
Multilateral                                         20.9               19.5             132.8
of which IBRO                                      13.6               0.0               71.6
silateral                                           131.7              148.4             105.0
Suppliers Credits                                   234.3             391.0              876.7
Financial Markets to Pubtic Sector                  77.7              342.2              188.4
Private Non-Guaranteed LT                           S49.3              86.3              163.7
IMF Repurchases                                       0.0              41.6              539.1
Financial Gap                                         0.0               0.0                0.0
TOTAL                                    1713.8             1029.1             2005.6
Interest Paymsnts
Multilateral                                         18.3              1U.8              366.8
of which IBRD                                       1.2              85.4              232.0
Silateral                                            67.6               91.5             123.3
Suppliers Credits                                    65.5              180.1             300.4
Financial Markets to Public Sector                 2180.8            1432.7             1123.8
Private Non-Guaranteed LT                           469.3              497.0             533.8
IMF Service Charges                                  10.8             296.5              353.7
Short-Term Debt                                     305.9              222.2             28?.0
Financial Gap                                         0.0                0.0               0.0
TOTAL                                    3118.0             2866.8             3088.8
Key Ratios                                     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995
..........                                     ..........       .. . ....  _.. ....  .....  ....  ..... ....    ....... .._ ....... 
Total Interest/XGS                         24.2X    24.2X    18.2X    15.5    14.9X    13.9X    12.7K    11.82
D0D/XGS                                   282.4X   220.4X   188.8X   186.62   181.5X   167.7?   1S5.0   142.1X
Net Disbursesunts/Total Interest  I/       S1.5      10.7K   134.88   109.2X   102.62    41.72    33.3X    20.62
Net Transfers/GDP   1/                      -2.52    -7.9K     2.4X      O.S     0.1X    -3.2X    -3.4X    -3.72
o/w Funds used for Debt Conversion/GOP   0.02       0.02     7.62      0.02     0.1X     0.02      0.1X    -0.3X
........................ ....................................................__. _........... __. .....__..........
If Includes IMF, FARMBIS, Short-Term Capitol, Reverse Capital ftflht and Pre-PaWlent under                  04/24/90
Debt-Equity Swaps.                                                                                     04:36 PF



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
VESEZUA
PUBLIC ENT RSE  REFOM  LO
PUBLIC ENTERPRSE SECTOR: MACRO INDICATORS
1984       1985       1986        1987       1988       1989
(billions 1984 bolivares)
GDP
NFPEM  (1)                                  25.0        25.1       33.7       27.8        26.5       26.6
Petroleum                                   86.9        78.0       54.6       68.5        65.8       80.8
Total Econony                              405.8       411.5      437.6      457.4       485.6      446.4
S NPPEslEconimy                              6.2         6.1        7.7        6.1         5.5        6.0
Gross FLxed Capital Formation
SFEs                                        13.8        14.8       23.1       24.5        23.0       22.8
Petroleum                                   10.4        10.0       11.7       10.1        12.9       15.6
Total Public Sector                         32.2        33.1       52.9       55.0        56.4       44.3
Total Economy                               67.3        73.9       88.7       99.6       111.0       77.3
i UFPEIEconmuY                              20.5       20.0        26.0       24.7        20.7       29.5
Public FLnance
Transfers to NFPEs (ni)                     13.1        13.1       17.4       17.2        15.9       12.9
Total Budgetary Expenditures               104.0       110.4      100.4      108.7       124.7      100.5
X Transfers IWFPslExpenditures              12.6       11.9        17.4       15.8        12.8       12.8
X TransfersIGDP                              3.2         3.2        4.0        3.8         3.3        2.9
Eapl.ymnt (000's)
SPIEs                                      158.6       151.5      154.5      166.5       170.8
Total Public Sector                       1109.6      1072.4     1030.3     1081.3      1134.3
Total Economy                             4931.5     5011.0      5314.2     5602.9      5954.3
2 WIPEITotal                                3.2         3.0        2.9        3.0         2.9
External Debt (current billions US$)
anPEs (iii)                                                                                7.3        7.5
All IRs (LLi)                                                                             12.2       12.6
Total Puble Sector Debt                    28.7        27.0       25.9       26.1        26.6       27.2
Total External Debt                         36.1        33.9       32.3       31.1        30.6       30.6
2 PublicTotal External Debt                 79.5        79.6       80.2       83.9        86.9       88.9
X WIPEIPublic Sector Debt                                                                 27.4       27.6
X NFPEITotal External Debt                                                                23.9       24.5
Nominal CDP                                   405.8       449.0      492.1      679.4       872.0     1396.5
GOP Deflator (1984 - 1.000)                   1.000       1.091      1.125       1.485      1.796      3.128
(1) calculated as value added for non-finan Lal public enterprises, excluding petroleum
(it) includes budgetary transfers (current + capital) plus FrV loans and equity contrLbutions to NPEs
(CiU) breakdown not available prior to 1988
Sourcet Central Bank, OCEPRE, Haclenda



- 69 -
VEIEZUELA PULIC ENTERPRISE REFORN LOAN               ANNEX 5
CONSOLIDATED NON,-FINANCIAL PUBLIC ENTERPRISES  li)
(Billions 1984 Bolivarms)
1984      1985      1986      1987     10        1989
A. PUBLIC SECTOR ACCOUNTS (ii)                                                             lest)
Operatin  Revenun                       42.5      44.0       60.4      51.6      52.4      45.9
Operating Expenses                      32.6      35.6       41.7      39.9      40.9      35.2
hou uagesislarin                      11.0       10.1      10.6       9.7       9.6       8.5
goods/servicn                     21.0      25.0      30.8       29.4      31.1      26.4
Operating Surplus                       10.0       10.4      10.9      11.0      11.6      10.?
Current Transfers                        6.0       5.0        4.1       3.6       2.3       3.3
Tues                                     1.4        1.0       3.6       2.5       2.0       1.7
Interest Incoas                          1.2       1.6       0.7        1.3       0.7       1.7
Interest Payments                       11.6      11.0       9.4        3.4       3.3       7.2
Current Account Surplus                  2.2       3.9        9.4       9.9       0.4       6.3
Capital Expenditures                    18.4      14.8       27.1      27.0      25.4      23.1
Sale of Fixed  ssets                     0.6       0.1        0.7       1.4       0.2       0.0
Financing Requirement                  -15.7     -10.8      -17.0     -15.7     -16.9     -16.8
Capital Transfers froe Govt              3.2       4.8        6.4       5.3       5.4       3.2
Capital Transfers from FlY               3.8       3.0        7.1       7.2       7.2       4.7
Overall Surplus/Deficit                 -8.7      -3.0      -3.5       -3.1      -4.2      -8.8
B. FINANCIAL ACUNTS
Total Transfers (current * capital)     13.0      12.8       17.6      16.2      14.9      il.2
kpreciation                              3.5       3.5        4.2       4.0       3.5       3.5
Net Income (after depreciation)
before current transfers              -7.4      -4.8        1.1       2.3       2.6      -0.4
after current transfers               -1.3       0.4       5.2        5.9       4.9       2.0
Total Assets (30 NFPEs) liii)          226.6     224.1     278.5      245.5
Fixed Assts (30 NFPEs)                 169.8      163.3    222.5      177.7
Total Uabilities(30 NFPEs)             100.3      93.6      123.1     121.0
Total Equity (30 NFPF)                 126.2      130.5     155.4     124.5
Nominal SOP                            405.0     449.0     492.1    679.4       872.0    1396.5
0DP 1984 prices                        405.8     411.5     437.6      457.4     485.6     444.4
SDP Deflator (1984 a 1.000)            1.000      1.091     1.125     1.485     1.796     3.128
1.120     1.114     1.576     1.914     3.652
C. FJNANCIAL RATIOS
Fixed Assets/SW  (1)                    41.8      39.7       50.0      38.9
Total Assts/W   (Zl                     55.0       54.4      63.4      53.7
Revenus/GP (1)                          10.5       11.2      13.8      11.3      10.8      10.3
Capital Expenditurns6/P (1)              4.5       3.6        6.2       5.9       5.2       5.2
Total TransferslGOP (I)                  3.2       3.1        4.0       3.5       3.1       2.5
Financing Requirment/SO  (1)            -3.9      -2.6       -3.9      -3.4      -3.5      -3.8
Overall Surplus/GOP lO                  -2.1      -0.7       -0.0      -0.7      -0.9      -2.0
Net Intone/Revenus (1)
before current trasfers              -17.3      -9.9        1.8       4.4       5.0      -1.0
after current transfes                -3.1       0.9        8.5      11.4       9.4       6.2
Return on total Assts (U
before current transfers              -3.2      -2.0        0.4       0.9
after current transfers               -0.8       0.3        2.3       3.3
Total Assets Turnover Itim)              0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2
Total Debt/Total Assets (1)             44.3      41.8       44.2      49.3
il aeclude  petrolum ueto
(ii) Sourct: OCV, CURDIPLA, OCEPRE
(iii)representing approm 90 of NFPEs in terms of total revenues, assuts, etc



- 71 -
VENEZUELA PUBLiC ENTERPRISE REFORN LOAN                      ANNEX I6
6SVRNUENT FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO NON-FINANCIAL PUELiC ENTERPISES t
(Current sillion Bolivres)
Enterpris               Source of    1984      1985     1986     198      19       1989        Total
Transfer                                                             1984-89
51DO                   Fly             0         0        0      234        0     4307         4541
CADfE                   Govt          292       602      967      993     1289     2471         6514
Fly          1900     1945     3059     6539      6776     6461       26710
CAIlEtRO                 ovt          1854    2053      2442     2921     3538     8315        21123
FEMOCAR                 hovt           72       314        2       27       36      212          463
INP                     BPvt          332      209       146     2026      144      i79         3536
tPOShiL                 Govt          316      332       107      137      145      455         1492
AEROPOSTAL              Bovt            72       56       59        1        0         0         188
FIV                                       127                 0         127
VIASA                   Govt           363      214      190       91        0         0         on
lUAU                    b.vt          295       485      208     1335      577     1U11         415
lY!"V                   60vt          1323     1629     1105     2353     2967      1617       11064
INS                     Iovt          1325     2612     3410     3049     4102     5262        t9759
co                      Govt          319       475      518      539      967      1012        3630
GECA                    Gvt           1489     1009      914       82       52       902        4478
FIV          1514     177      1918      2551     4160     350        1540
ALCASA                  FIV              0      281      453     1135      613      1070        3252
81IVEYI                 FIV             55       41      171      396      474       347        1484
VENAIWI                 FlY              0      257        0        0      419         0         676
INTE-UAIIINA            FIV             60        0       10      160        0      237          467
ASTINAVE                FlV            154      129      133      123      363       475        1382
CAIN                    FIV              0        0        0        0       18         0          U
pIIVfI                  Govt            24        7        0        0         0        0          31
CMIV                    gott             0       27        0        0         0      s4          573
Total bt Transrs to All    s    9213    I904    11747    14159    147M    2336                 367
Total FIV Trafrs to A1 llWU           3834     3408     788    11328    1375    17             573
Total Trasfsr to All * s             13047    14312    19       25W87    2D        4          142033
* ielauss bItay transfers (crrt * capital)  and equitY a   loa ns fro ny
acli. asmption of FE dt by  overnmnt or FIV



- 72 -
VENEZUELA PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORN LOAN                      ANNEX 68
60vERNNENT FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO NON-FINANCIAL PU8LIC ENTERPRISES a
(Constant sillian 1984 Bolivares)
Enterprise              Source of    1914      1965     1986     1987     1988      1989       Total
Transfer                                                             1904-89
SIDOR                   Fly              0        0        0      158        0      1377        1535
CADAFE                  Govt           292      532      771      669      719       790        3791
Fly          1900     1783     2746     4403      3773     2066       16670
CAHETRO                 6ovt          1854     1882     2171     1967     1970    2658         12502
FERROCAR                6ovt            72      288        2       18        20       68         46
INP                     60vt          332       192      130     1364       90       217        2315
IPOSTEL                 60vt          316       304       95       92       01       145        1034
AEROPOSTAL              6ovt            72       51       52        1         0        0         176
Fly                      0        0        06        0        0          86
VIASA                   Govt           363      196      169       61        0         0         789
INAU                    Govt          295       445      185      899      321       516        2661
INAVI                   Govt          1323     1493      992     1585     1652       539        7574
INOS                    o0vt          1325     2394     3031     2053     2204      1692       12769
CSB                     Govt           319      435      460      363      538       324        2440
EDELCA                  6ovt          1499      925      812       55        46      298        3616
FIv          1514     1720     1767      1719     2316     1071       10107
ALCASA                  FIV              0      259      136      764      341       342        1041
UIIVEN                  FYV             55       38      152      267      264      1Il          886
VENLII                  FIV              0      236        0        0      233         0         469
INERO-LUNIN             FIV            60         0        9      108        0        76         252
ASTINAVE                FIV            154      It8      119       83      205       152         930
CA8N                    FIV              0        0        0        0       32         0          32
PMSIV EN                Got             24        6        0        0         0        0          30
CMIV                    Govt             0       25        0        0         0      175         19
Totl Gvt Trnsfers to All IFPEs    9213         995    10442      9535     9234      7620       55038
Total FIV Transfers to All NFPEs    3834       3124     7012     762      7681      5477       34756
Total Transfers to All NFPEs         13047    13118    17453    17163    15915    13098        89794
a includess budetary trasfers (curront t capital); and equity and loans froo FlV
aclud    sumption of PE debt by 6ovnrnet or FlV



- 73 -
VEKEZUELA PULIC ENTERPRISE REFO   LOAN                                           Awn11 7
KEY IIlICATORS FOR NWOR IIN-FIICIAL PUBLIC ENTERPRISE   11)
(millions divanr)
Enterpris         Ativity    Operating   Not  Investmnt  FianciUg   Trnsfes   Total   Tot    Eernal Euty 1EM
bvnue   lncme               Rqirut (BvtFIV) Asbntn             ebt       et
Indutrial                                   (2)                 13)                                  (USSNN)
Sidor  *      it!l              16177   -1597        250         -95           0    4342   27515    170.3   13027    181"
Wenala        aluinu             8589     1355       5763       -2356        419    10201   5U        206.4    473        36
Dianc         shipyard            252       32        334        -286          6      723    244                 480      10
Interalumin   aluein            4230      678       1304        -29                 7644    379      249.4    38         1513
kuximv        b ite                 3        8       1129       -1084        474     1977    694                 12        709
Ferruinera  iron ore             21U4      623        162         53           0     40      26S8       18.8    1396      309
Akan          alus in            3446      749       3439         749        613     9338    65       387.       290      3343
Astinave a    shipyred              0        0        68         -5          36       996      72                 694      109
Pequid        petrocheicals    8271        68        2685       -1797          0     619      1999               6200     3
Cenazuca a    sar refinry        2212      -5         209        -226          0    5758    3530                 22       4030
Utilitie
Edeolea       elctr ges?         26671     463        367       -7192       4242   49521   17213      919.5   32309       2310
Cadafe     a nlectr ge/dist   7487    -349           7437       -5392       3065    63      35612    1620.3   32956    14795
Enlveft       electr distr       1407      116        521        -192        644     5745    2419      64.3    3326       1437
Endlbar       slectr distr        457      150        332        -129        182     1026    322                 704      5s6
INDS  *       ater               1346   -2916        2281       -5106       4102    36909   10718              26121    15520
ItAIU   e     trash collect       231   -1230          67        -679        577      24      943              16944     3599
CANTV    *    telecM             9956     1654       3990        -966          0    20875   12334     617.7    3542    19557
Transport
CAYI  *       shipping           436       330         9          304         5      3058    1473                1565     1367
I1P   a      ports               1568    -392         228        -464        144     535   239          6.3    2976    12299
AEROPTAL     doetic air          1709      133        571        -143          0     1601    1057                544      2423
VIA9 A  a     int'l airline      5030      235        184         511          0     4367   3661       7'.6      506      3150
FERROCAR      rail                 24      -31          9         -41         36    2464    1016       34.6    1448       524
CAMETAO       Cara    subway      6       -525       43         -4263       3538   32200   1813    1073.0   15366         746
IPOSTEL      postal               520    -226          13          -7        145     1091    95         2.1    13       7822
IIC          dredging            1114      322        219         143          0     2704     221               2484     2449
Other
IAVI *       housIng              624    -203        093        -3153       2967    37035   17541       4.0   1944       7923
CBo   *       prop  rtydw          70       79       1761       -1642        967    15422    9126               6294      1733
INN   t      racetrack           4044    -110         206        -29           0     2263     750               1532    N18
Total Above   s                  8941       185      5200       -35102      24       022   187456    6852.5  215376  150676
Total All NFPEs(mst)            100351     5019      46674      -32269      2853                      7318.5            170800
(ecl petroleo)
*  to be rstructured or privatited under PM
(11 1998 data for operating remu , net incoe, invstmnt, financing requirement ad  ternal debt
19  data for all other indicators
(2) net incoe prior to current trmfers
13) finntiag rquirmnt aft  current + capital emonditure, prior to etreal finaning (Ot capital transfes 
co rcial loa



- 75 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
PUBLIC ENTERPEISE !ZVOU LOaw
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section Is Tl etable of KUv Events
(a)   Time Taken to Prepares              8 months
(b)   Prepared bys                        Government of Venezuela, under the
coordination of the Ministry of
Coordination atd Planning
(CORDIPLAN)
(c)  First IBRD Missions                  July 1989
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departures         March 1990
(e)   Negotiations:                       May 1990
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:      October 1990
(g)  List of Relevant PCRs and PPARLs    None
Section II: Special Bank Impleentation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.    The specific condition of loan effectiveness is maintenance of a
macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives of the reform program.
2.   The following are specific conditions for second tranche release:
(a)   maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives
of the reform program;
(b) satisfactory progress in implementation of the agreed reform program, as
set out in the attached Policy Letter;
(c)   assessment of progress toward the goal of reaching export opportunity
cost for fertilizer prices and agreement on a program of further price
adjustments if warranted;
(d)   based on the preliminary results of the long run marginal cost study for
electricity, agreement on a strategy and timetable for further
adjustments, if needed, in electricity prices;



- 76 -
i5QDUZIE  - PUBLIC INMEPUISE REFOR LOAN                                  ANNEX a
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet                                        Page 2 of 2
(e)   review of the legal and regulatory framework for shipping (including
consideration of the cargo reserve requirement and the policy that PEs
must patronize the state-owned shipping firm) and, on the basis of the
review, adoption of measures--including submission of legislation to
Congress if required--to promote competition in shipping, In a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
(f)   submission of a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to phase out Government
budgetary transfers to PEs not subject to restructuring programs or
performance agreements;
(g)   formal selection of three additional public enterprises, satisfactory to
the Bank, for restructuring;
(h)   adherence to the targets and timetables for implementation of agreed
restructuring programs for INP, INOS and CADAPE;
ti) evaluation of the role of the CADAPE holding company and preparation of
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for further reforms to
decentralize CADAFE; and
(j)   Cabinet approval of restructuring programs, satisfactory to the Bank,
for SIDOR, CANTV and CAVN.
3.    The following are specific conditions for third tranche release:
(a)   maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives
of the reform program;
(b)   satisfactory progress in implementation of the agreed reform program as
set out in the attached Policy Letter;
(c)   adjustment of prices for petroleum products and fertilizers in
accordance with agreed plans;
(d)   adherence to agreed plan to phase out transfers to public enterprises
not subject to restructuring programs or performance agreements;
(e)   Cabinet approval of restructuring programs, satisfactory to the Bank,
for five additional public enterprises;
(f)   adherence to targets and timetables for implementation of agreed
restructuring programs for SIDOR, CANTV and CAVN; and
(g)   assets of at least US$150 million brought to point of sale (i.e
valuations and other required preparatory actions completed).



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
PUBLIC lnERPXISE WSFORN LOAN
Terms of Reference for
Review of Financial, Legal, and Tutelary Relationships
between the Central Government and Public Enterprises
Background
1.      The Government of Venezuela launched a far-reaching macroeconomic
stabilization and adjustment program In early 1989. A major component of this
adjustment program is the reform of the public enterprise (PE) sector, aimed
at reducing its dominance in. the economy (through increased private sector
activity and privatization of those PEs no longer fulfilling public policy
objectives) and comprehensive restructuring of those PEs remaining in the
public sector, to operate in a more efficient and commercial manner.
Interministerial committees have been established to oversee the privatization
and restructuring programs, respectively.
2.      One element of the PE reform program will be a review of the existing
legal, financial, and tutelary arrangements. This review would aim at
clarifying Government/PE relationships and introducing reforms (where
necessary) to ensure adequate PE managerial autonomy on operational matters,
while also ensuring adequate Governmet supervision of PEs and managerial
accountability for performance.
Existing Legal and Institutional Arran_ements
3.      The existing legallinstitutional arrangements governing the
relationship between PEs and the Central Government are the result of a number
of ad hoc measures over the last 25 years. Most state enterprises were
created in the 1960s and constituted as incorporated businesses under the
conmmercial code. As such, they have a shareholders assembly, which designates
a Board of Directors and a President. This structure was deemed insufficient,
however, and several changes were introduced in the legal and institutional
framework. In the 19709, to achieve policy coherence, the concept of
ladscripcifn' was introduced, which linked each individual FE to a particular
Ministry. Separate *tutelary" relationships were also established, to provide
greater influence over enterprise operations. Linkages were also established
between PEs and Ministries with a role in defining sectoral policy, separate
from Oadscripcint'.
4.      In addition to this myriad of Goverzment/PE institutional
arrangements, the Budget Law (*Ley Orgdnica del Regimen Presupuestario")
requires Cabinet approval of PE annual budgets, on the recommendation of
OCEPRE (Government Budget Office). The Public Credit Law ("Ley de CrAdito
Pdblico') also requires approval by the Cabinet, the Central Bank, and
Congress for medium-term borrowing; ceilings for short-term borrowing are
approved by the Cabinet, the Central Bank, and the Congressional Finance
Committee. Despite these apparent strict controls, Government financial
support--both directly, through budgetary transfers, and indirectly, through



- 78 -
VWZUELA - PULIC ENTERISE REFORM LOAN
TORe for Review of FinanCial/Legal/Tutelary Relationships                ANNEX 9
between Central Government and Public Enterprises                    Page 2 of 4
guaranteed borrowings under the Public Credit Law--has often been provided
without adequate economic and financial justification, clear objectives, or
accountability for financial results.  Moreover, in the past, PR investment
projects (and the related financing) were generally approved on a case-by-
case basis, without adequate integration into the Government's overall public
investment and financing program.
5.      While PEs in Venezuela have more operating autonomy than in many
developing countries, the accumulation of legal, regulatory, and
administrative changes during the last two decades has resulted in unclear and
diffuse acccuntability relationships, causing substantial delays in decision-
making and little effective control of PE policy. Moreover, there are
significant differences between P3s in the manner in which Government
supervision and shareholder control is exercised. The heads of PDVSA and CVG,
for example, report directly to the President.
Objectives of Consulting Study
6.      The objective of the consulting study will be to review the existing
legal, financial, and tutelary arrangements governing PEs and recommend
appropriate improvements and reforms aimed ats (i) clarifying accountability
and reporting relationships; (ii) ensuring adequate PE managerial autonomy on
operational matters, while also ensuring adequate Government supervision of
PEs and managerial accountability for performance; and (iii) facilitating
adequate coordination of PE investment and borrowing plans with the
Government"s overall public investment and financing plans.
7.      The scope of the study would include all non-financial public
enterprises. However, separate reviews of key public enterprises in, inter
alia, electricity, telecomiunications, water, shipping and postal services are
also being undertaken within the context of the PE reform program, and it is
expected that the restructuring of these PEs will involve revisions in the
regulatory and institutional arrangements for these particular sectors.
Accordingly, this study should focus primarily on the broader legal,
financial, tutelary, and institutional arrangements pertaining to all PEs.
8.      As one element of an improved institutional framework, the study will
address establishment of a limited performance agreement system, whereby the
Central Government and selected PEs will agree on such aspects as: the PE's
overall mission/strategy; performance targets; borrowing, investment, and
dividend policy and Government financial support (if any). It is expected
that performance agreements will be introduced for a limited number of
enterprises, namely those PEs having a major financial impact on Government.
Specific Tasks
9.      The consultant(s) will undertake the following tasks:
(i)   Review all legislation, decrees, ministry resolutions and other
regulations pertaining to PE responsibilities and operations,
including such aspects as: the role and composition of the Boards of
Directors; appointment of PE presidents; the role and responsibilities



- 79 -
UKl&VIN   - PURIC uN?UPRI= 331031 LAM
TOts for Review of FinanciallLegalITStelary Relationships                 AM=nn   9
between Central 6overnment and Public ltemflses                       Page 3 of 4
of sectoral Ministries vis-a-vis their PBs; approval of PE plans and
budgets; borrowings (both domestic and foreign); procuremeat of raw
materials and inputs; distribution and marketing of PB goods and
services; pricing; staffing (hiring, promotions, layoffs) and
salariesibonuses;
(ii) Review the application of the legislation and the existing procedures
and processes for review and approval of PE plans, budgets, salary and
bonus levels, staffing, procurement, financing, Investments, and
dividends;
(iII)   Identify constraints (if any) in existing legal and institutional
arrangements inhibiting PEs from operating In a fully coimercial
manner;
(iv) Assess existing mechanisms fort Government review of key PE policy
and strategic issues: Governuent supervision of Pie and monitoring and
evaluation of enterprise parformance; and ensuring managerial
accountability; and
tv) Assess existing procedures for reviewing PE Investment and borrowing
plans and coordinating these plans with the Government's public
investment program and financing plan.
10.     On the basis of the above review and assessment, the consultant(s)
will make recomendations on the following:
5i) Revisions (where appropriate) of the existing institutional
arrangements, including, inter alias the role and composition of the
PE Boards of Directors; appointment of PB presidents; responsibilities
of sectoral and tutelary Ministries vis-a-vis their PEs;
(ii)   Revisions (where appropriate) in the existing Institutional
arrangements, to ensure adequate managerial autonomy in day-to-day
operations, i.e., with respect to pricing (for Pgs in competitive
sectors), procurement, staffing, salaries/bonuses8
(iii)   Revisions (where approptiate) in the existing process for review and
approval of enterprise plans and budgets;
(iv)   Introduction of a limited performance agreement system, including:
proposed format/content of the performance agreements; process and
responsibilities for preparation, negotiation, and monitoring;
proposed timetable for their phased introduction, including a list of
PEs to be included in the systems
(v) Improvements (where appropriate) in the existing mechanisms and
process for Government supervision and monitoring/evaluation of PE
performance; and
(vi)   Improvements in existing procedures for reviewing PE Investment and
borrowing proposals and coordinating these proposals with the
Govemrnent's overall public investment and finAncing program.



- 80 -
VUNEUBL  - PcUC BMUPKIS1 RFORM LOAN
TORs for Riewiw of N nanciallLegallTutelary Relationships                 ADNNX 9
between Central Government and Public InterDrises                     Page 4 of 4
11.     Based on the proposed revisions in the institutional arrangements and
processes outlined above, the consultant(s) will make recomendations on
revisions to the legal framework (laws, decrees, and regulations) to effect
the recoamended changes.
Resource Requirements
12.     The assignment is expected to require 6 person-months.  The
consultant(s) should have extensive experience in public enterprise legal and
institutional arrangements, preferably in several countries. In addition, the
consultant(s) should have experience and training in financial and economic
analysis.



- 81-               -Ng   10
Page 1 of 5
PUBLIC EUTUUISU WR3OB LOAN
Terms of Reference for Restructurins Study for
Siderdrmica de Orinoco C.A. (SIDOR)
Background
1.       The study is intended to provide the Government of Venezuela, the
regional holding company (CVG), and the steel producing company (SIDOR), with a
review and analysis of the strategic options available for the restructuring of
SIDOR. The study will review existing information and, vhere necessary, the
development of supporting market, technical, financial, and economic data. The
first phase of the study will be to develop a set of agreed basic assumptions
to be used in the analysis and evaluation of the restructuring program proposed
by SIDOR and other strategic options developed during the study. At the
conclusion of the study, an agreed restructuring program will be presented,
including costs and benefits, along with a detailed action plan, including
milestoner timing, and specific steps to be taken by the Government, CVG, and
sIDOR.
2.       A counterpart team representing the Government, CVG, and SIDOR will be
assigned to work closely with the consultant. Local consulting firms are also
available and their participation is encouraged. In the process of executing
the study, consensus with the counterpart team on the study's findings and
recommendations should be sought through discussions of the study's reports.
Objective
3.       The objective of the study is to establish an agreed plan for the
restructuring of SIDOR, based on the information prepared by SIDOR and reviewed
and updated by the consultant, that will result in an economically viable firm,
able to satisfy efficiently the demands of the projected markets, taking into
consideration the existing situation of the company, its investment and
modernization plans, and the restructuring program it has proposed.
Scope of Work
4.       The consultant will provide:  (i) a detailed assessment of the
company, including an analysis of technical capability and production cost;
(ii) a detailed review of the company's investment program and its current
priorities; (iii) an analysis of the domestic steel market, including
projections of demand and export opportunities; (iv) an economic analysis,
showing the competitive advantage of the producers and the changes needed in
the policy environment to ensure long-term viabilityg (v) short- and long-term
strategic options based on the above and a recommended plan for restructuring;
and (vi) an agreed Implementation plan with detailed actions, milestones, and
timing. The ability of the consultants to build consensus through the study
methodology and to help improve a local capacity for planning and
implementation is a critical part of the work.



- 82 -
VZERZUZIA - PUBLIC niTRRpKIsU LowN                                       AM= 10
TM01  for SIDOR Uestructuria ftuod                                   Page 2 of 5
Detail
5.       The consultant's study will Include each of the following aspectst
A.       A survey of the company, based on processes and products in respect
of:
- plant location
- production capacities, outputs, and product range
- facility site and layout
- production equipment, processes, and technology levels
- raw materials and energy sources and consumption
- transport, infrastructure, and coats
- organization and manpower
- sales, marketing, and distribution
- production costs of finished steel products
- financial results and investment plans
B.       An analysis of the major production facilities, including technical
performance factors, input costs, and financial information, based on
the use of a computer model for the evaluation of production costs by
process and product. The production cost analysis will form the basis
for further economic and financial analysis, including comparison
between domestic facilities and International producers and the
evaluation of operational improvements, investment alternatives, and
strategic options.
C.       An appraisal of markets based on information prepared by SIDOR and
reviewed and updated by the consultant, that will provide the agreed
basis for future market projections, including:
- an analysis of historical trends in the production, consumption,
imports and exports of steel products,
- an analysis of current demand In terms of both quality and quantity
in the domestic, regional, and export market,
- identification of requirements in these three markets, with emphasis
on specification, quality, and cvstomer service and the performance
of SIDOR in meeting these criteria,
- projected damestic demand and export opportunities for SIDOR,
including projected prices and conditions,
- issues of domestic versus imported supply in the Venezuelan steel
market, including an analysis of 1-y competitive factors and
Government policy toward the sector,
- estimation of the volume of sales achievable by SIDOR In each
product group, with Identification of key determinant factors.
D.       Tabulate and analyze data on basic raw materials, energy, and other
Inputs for SDOoR, Including comparisons with worldwide trends.



- 83 -
VUNBZUUI - PUBLIC INTRPiMSE LOA                                         ANhE  10
TORs for SIDOR Restructuring Study                                   Page 3 of 5
E.       Analyze the current economic environment, to develop an understanding
of the impact of current Government policy on the industry and the
company and the distortions which should be addressed by recommended
changes in policy. This should include a review of:
- input prices
- steel pricing
- trade policy
- tariff policy and protection
- institutional support
- fe:reign exchange regulation and controls
- polUcy effects on steel consumers
F.       Analyze the investment and modernization program developed by SIDOR
based on the cost models, agreed market forecasts, Government policy,
and economic environment described above. This will begin with an
analysis of the proposed investment program for seamless tube
facilities and will include a technical review of the following
aspects of the proposed investment project::
- selection of tae proper technology on the basis of the scheduled
production and product mix for this class of product
- adequacy of steelmaking facilities that are planned to be utilized,
in terms of product quality, costs and long-term capability
- balance of capacity and production vith the proposed production
program and identification of facilities that should be retained
and upgraded, if necessary
- review and agree on the budget estimates for investment costs and
timing for upgraded or new facilities as required
- develop an agreed evaluation of benefits and substantiation of the
need for investment
G.       Review the restructuring program proposed by SIDOR, along with other
strategic options for restructuring and modernization based on the
agreed assumptions and analysis of the options evaluated and
recommended. The recommended program should also identify major
facilities that should be shut down and retired, with reasons for such
recommendations, for examples
- obsolete and outmoded
- not required for future products
- surplus for the restructured Industry
R.       Review operating, maintenance, and staffing at the plants, make
recommendations for improving manpower productivity and strategies for
redeployment of surplus manpower for each plant.
I.       Review operating and maintenance practices and identify short-term
operating improvements for early implementation that do not require
substantial Investment.



- 84 -
VEZN3ULA - PUBLIC URTURPRISE LOAN                                        ANNEB 10
TORs for SIDOR Restructuring Study                                   Page 4 of 5
J.       Carry out an economic analysis of SIDOR's capability to meet domestic
market demands under the same assumptions as those developed for the
analysis of strategic options, including:
- capital investment requirement
- projected outputs by product type
- rationalization and utilization of resources, with detailed levels
of raw material and energy consumption and staffing
- achievable costs by product and per tonne of production
- projected prices and value added attributable to outputs
The principal comparison should be economic efficiency, i.e., domestic
unit costs of production versus international competitiveness of
imports.
K.       Present a long-ternm perspective of the firm, showing changes in
financial position, sales, output, process technology, product range,
manpower levels, and other key parameters. Include details of the
restructured steel company and a suggested program for its
privatization.
L.       Appraisal of the projected company in terms of:
- economic impact, Government revenues, and balance of trade
- International competitiveness
- structure of production and distribution
- product quality coverage
- growth of output and value added
- expected unit costs of production by product
- labor productivity
- implications for supply of raw materials and energy
- transportation infrastructure
- capability of privatization
M.       An implementation program should be prepared, detailing the
recomnended restructuring programs and identifying specific
implementation steps for the industry and their timing, with defined
milestones, costs, financial requirements, and benefits. Key factors
outside industry control relating to Government policy, domestic, and
export market uncertainties should be clearly defined, with
recommendations and expected effects on the recommended strategy.
Reporting Reguirements
6.       The consultant should prepare a diagnostic report at the conclusion of
the first phase of the study. This should contain the necessary background
data, analysis, and evaluation of the current situation, including:
(i) structure and performance of the company; (ii) degree of international
competitiveness; (iii) economic environment; (iv) technical situation and
principal problem areas; and (v) domestic and international market prospects.
This report should provide an independent view on the existing investment
program and in particular the planned seamless tube mill. On the basis of this
diagnostic prepared with the counterpart team and local consultants, an agreed
set of assumptions for the development of strategic options can be elaborated.



- 85 -
VINUULA- PCUC  zNTUPU    WAN                                              AU= 10
TORe for SUDMR Restrus turisa Stud&                                    Page S of S
7.       The second phase of the study should develop options for restructuring
the company. including defined changes Ins (f) Government policies and
regulations; (ii) the company operations and investments; (II) raw material
and infrastructural require_ents; and (iv) the benefits associated with each of
the strategic options analyzed. The final report will elaborate the options
considered and the final recommended restructuring plan as agreed by the
consultants and counterpart group. This report must contain the Information
necessary for implementing the final restructuring plan, including the detailed
action plan, milestones, and timing, along with an agreed doefnition of
responsibility for each area of implementation.
8.       Completion of the first phase of the study is expected to take three
months. The second phase of the study is expected to require three additional
months to complete.



- 87 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
VEtllSRI
PUBLIC ENTUPRISE fF031 LOAN
terus of Reference for Restructuring Stud, for
Coumpafia An6nima Eacional de Tel4fonos de Venezuela
Introduction
1.      Compaffia An6nima Nacional de Telefonos de Venezuela is a 100l   state-
owned company under the Ministerio de Comunicaciones, with a monopoly on the
provision of telecommunications services to the public in Venezuela. As of
December 31, 1989, CANTV had 1.5 mullion telephone lines in service, with a
telephone density of 7.8 lines per hundred population. Private networks are
allowed to operate without connection to the public-switched network. The
monopoly was granted under the Telecommunications Act (*Ley de Telecomunica-
cionesg) of July 6, 1965, and has been in force for 25 years. Major decisions
on tariffs, procurement, expansion plans, and salaries and conditions of staff
are subject to the Executive, through the Minister of Communications.
Sector Issues
2.      A preliminary assessment of major sector issues was carried out with
assistance from the World Bank from November 1989 to February 1990. Major
issues identified weret
(a)     low quality of service, due to congestion in the local exchanges,
caused by insufficient traffic capacity, poor network management and
planning, and low maintenance levels;
(b)    CANTV had 500,000 applications for service, but unsatisfied demand can
be estimated at . million lines at end-1989.
(c)     the need for commercialization, targetted to the 92 of subscribers
that generates 502 of CANTV revenues;
(d)    a distorted tariff structure with lower levels of local tariffs than
costs and higher levels of long-distance and international tariffs
than costs; and
(e)    the need to improve managiment and human resources of CANTV, increase
the technical staff and reduce the administrative staff,
professionalize management decisions at appropriate levels, increase
commercial orientation, and reduce the number of management levels.
3.      The Government of Venezuela is considering restructuring CANTM  into
two or more companies, whose shares could eventually be sold, and creating an
appropriate framework for regulation of the telecommunication sector.



- 88 -
VEIXUILA - PUC  ZRPSE REFORl LOAN                                       AMM  11
YORS for CANST Restructuring Study                                   Page 2 of 5
Obiectives of the Restructuring Consultancy
4.      The objectives of the consultancy are to:
(a)     recommend appropriate organizational and financial structures for the
new companies, planning procedures, information systems, personnel
policies, and manpower plans in their initial stage;
(b)     recomend an implementation plan to bring the new companies into
existence;
(c)     assess options for the regulatory functions to be exercised by the
Kinistry of Commnications and/or other suitable arrangements, and the
organization and staffing of the regulatory body;
(d)     develop a framework for the required legislation to make the changes
possible; and
te)     prepare the new companies for the sale of part of their shares.
Restructurin Committee
S.      The consultant will perform his work under the guidance of the
Interministerial Commission (IMC) for Restructuring, which consists of members
appointed by Government, including CORDIPLAN, FIV, and CANTV.
Tasks
6.      The work will consist of four phasess
(a)    planning the organization of the new companies and the regulatory body
(4 months);
(b)    planning the implementation of the restructuring (3 months);
tc)     assisting in the implementation/decision-making process of the
restructuring (4 months); and
(d)     preparation of the new companies for the sale of shares (6 months).
The times in parentheses are the approximate expected duration of each phase.
Planuint the New Comanies
7.      The consultant will review CANTV's present organization, human
resources, planning, management, development, operation, financial practices,
and tariff setting. The consultant will also review CANTV's present financial
position.
8.      From this review and taking into account Government objectives for the
sector, he/she will recommend desired objectives for the new companies and the
regulatory body.



- 89 -
VZN3UEL& - PUBLIC XtBUBU?SE fF0111 LOAN                                 ANNUM 11
TORS for CANTV Restructuring Study                                  Page 3 of 5
9.      From these objectives a series of options will be presented to the IMC
for Restructuring, which will includes
(a) the separation of the commercial and regulatory functions;
(b) the corporatization plant
(c) the regionalization plan; and
(d) the introduction of competition into different parts of the
businesss customer premises equipment, value added and data
services, public switched telephone, voice and private lines and
networks.
10.     After discussions with the Restructuring Committee, the consultant
will provide options for the structure of the new companies, in order to
select the most suitable form of organization to achieve the objectives,
within the context of Venezuela's mixed (public and private sector)
enterprises environment and taking into account the national interest and
social obligations.
11.     For each company, the consultant will prepare a development plan,
including expansion of services, improvement of quality of service, financial
performance plan, and a human resource development plan.
12.     For the regulatory body, the consultant will prepare options on the
price and quality of service regulation for monopoly services, distribution of
revenues among the companies, the standard and type approvals plan, the usage
conditions and the interconnection policies. Helshe will then submit options
on the above mentioned issues to the IMC for Restructuring.
13.     After the Commission decisions, the consultant will design the
organization and determine the human resources, information systems, financial
and auditing requirements, and customer complaint procedures for the
regulatory body.
Planning the IMplementation of the Restructurina
14.     The consultant will prepare a plan for the restructuring of CANTV into
the new companies and the creation of the regulatory body.
15.     The consultant will assist in drafting the legislation required for
the restructuring and the licenses required by the new companies to operate.
He/she will submit proposals to the IMC for Restructuring.
16.     The consultant will assist in drafting the telecommunications
regulation, which will initially regulate operation of the companies and set
the boundaries of the non-regulated parts of the business.
17.     The consultant will plan formulation of the companies and a detailed
chronogram for establishment, board appointments, appointment of general
managers, other managers, and transfer of staff.



- 90 -
VNEZUELA - PUBLIC ENTERPRISE 11OR3  LOQN                                ANNEX 11
YOUs for CAMW Restructuring Study                                     Page 4 of 5
Assistance La the Decision-makina Process
18.     The consultant will assist the Covmission for Restructuring in the
decision-making process of the restructuring, by responding to questions,
defining options, estimating consequences, and drafting amendments to the
plans.
Preparation for Privatization
19.     The consultant will assist the new companies in the privatization
process, preparing the companies in the accounting and financial areas,
performing an asset valuation of each company, preparing budgets and plans
based on the markets, and improving the organization through a commercial
orientation.
20.     The consultant will reconmend to the INC for Restructuring the options
for private sale, placements, or flotation. He/she will recoamend the timing,
the size, and the price of the sale. He/she will recomnend employee share
ownership schemes that could be attractive in the local environment. He/she
will recommend incentives for wider share ownership that will attract, for
example, reputed operating companies that could provide the human resources
needed in the management of the restructured companies.
21.     The consultant will assist the new regulatory body in developing
performance indicators and systems to monitor results from the new companies;
assessing their investment programs, depreciation, and procurement policies;
establishing, monitoring, and enforcing technical standards for networks and
interconnection; and analyzing, approving or rejecting the new companies'
tariff proposals and related costs.
22.     The consultant will assist the IMC for Restructuring in the sale
process, in preparing the specifications, in analyzing offers, and in
clarifying questions that may arise.
Consulting Manuower
23.     The consultancy will require a multi-disciplinary team, with
experience of similar assignments in developing countries. The team will
include management specialists, economists, financial analysts,
telecommunication engineers, and lawyers. The team leader must have relevant
experience in similar assignments. The estimates for each part of the
assignment are:
MNn-months         Time to comDlete
Planning the new companies                  44                     4
Planning the implementation                 30                     3
Assistance in decision-making               20                     4
Preparation for privatization               54                     6
TOTAL                    148                     17



- 91 -
VZNEZJL& - PUBLIC hMMBRPRISE lUCRN LOAN                                 A*MHZ 1I
TOBS for CAMUS  Restructuring Study                                   Pa0e S of S
However, the consultant should quote the number of man-months he/she considers
necessary to fulfill the terms of reference.
Reportina Requiremeats
24.     The consultant must produce the following reports to the INC for
Restructuring at the approximate times indicated in the following tables
Report                          use Date (mouths frem start-up)
Inception Report                             1
Plan for the new companies                   4
Plan for the regulatory body                 4
Telecommnication Sector regulation           6
Draft Licenses                               6
New Legislation                              8
Implementation Plan                          7
Privatization Specification                 1S
25.     The consultant should provide any report-, or modifications to
existing reports, as required from time to time by the IHC for Restructuring.



M   d,       z               
{-irl~~~ ~~ WS    :ql;: /:   X     ,    l
t~~  mf7i s 1-t'' 
Si    H      l l021-00   SZ _      7        7         7   i~



