Document of
FILE COPY                                The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2223-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of March 14, 1978)
Rs 1.00         =         Paise 100
US$1.00         =         Rs 8.24
Rs 1.00         =         US$0.1213
Rs 1 million              US$121,300
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the disburse-
ment period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC   -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD    -   Command Area Development
CADA   -   Command Area Development Authority
CB     -   Commercial Bank
GOI    -   Government of India
GOK    -   Government of Karnataka
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LDB    -   Land Development Bank
O&M    -   Operation and Maintenance
UKS    -   Upper Krishna (Irrigation) Scheme



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:           State of Karnataka for irrigation works and roads;
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
for refinancing loans made to farmers by partici-
pating Land Development Banks (LDBs) and Commercial
Banks (CBs) for on-farm works and construction of
field drainage channels.
Amount:                US$126 million.
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       (a)  India to Karnataka:  As part of Central Assist-
ance to States for development projects on terms
and conditions applicable at the time;
(b) India to the Agricultural Refinance and Dev-
elopment Corporation (ARDC): At interest rate
of not less than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum
(with 0.25% per annum rebate for prompt re-
payment) for refinancing loans, with terms
of 9 and 15 years, respectively;
(c) ARDC to LDBs and CBs: Annual interest of
not less than 7.5% with maturities according
to maturities of loans to be refinanced;
(d) LDBs and CBs to farmers: Repayable within
not more than 15 years, including 2 years of
grace, at not less than 10.5% per annum
interest for secured loans.
Project
Description:         The objective of the Project is to increase agri-
cultural production, to improve farm incomes, and
to provide employment opportunities, primarily for
small farmers and landless laborers, within three
major irrigation schemes presently under construc-
tion in northeastern Karnataka: the Upper Krishna
Scheme (UKS) and the Malaprabha and Ghataprabha
Systems. The project would comprise a five year
phase of development, mainly in UKS. By comple-
tion of the Project investment in 1983, about
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World bank authorization.



- ii -
105,000 ha of the potential UKS cultivable
command area of 425,000 ha would be irrigated.
Development of irrigation in the full 425,000 ha
area, to be achieved by 1993, would optimize
returns in all investments in UKS.
The project consists of:
(i) Within Upper Krishna Scheme:
(a) completion of the Almatti and Narayanpur
dams, and resettlement of about 13,000
displaced families;
(b) completion of the Narayanpur Left Bank
Canal from about km 36 to km 78 (including
construction of two tunnels) and con-
struction of the Shahapur Branch Canal
(76 km);
(c) provision of irrigation distribution and
drainage systems serving about 105,000 ha,
and of field irrigation channels for about
80,000 ha;
(d) rehabilitation and upgrading of about 70 km
of existing village and link roads, and con-
struction of about 530 km of new village and
link roads;
(e) on-farm works and construction of field
drainage channels for 25,000 ha;
(f) establishment of a Land Development Training
Center, of an agricultural development center,
of agricultural research stations and of other
research facilities;
(g) a program to monitor water use efficiencies
and to evaluate the economic and social
impact of the project;
(h) procurement of vehicles and equipment for
road construction, operation and maintenance,
for agricultural services, for the Land
Development Training Center, and for project
monitoring.
(ii) Within Malaprabha Scheme:
On-farm works and construction of field
channels on an area of about 26,000 ha.



- iii -
(iii) Within Ghataprabha Scheme:
On-farm works and construction of field
channels on an area of about 5,000 ha.
This risks under the proposed project are those
normally associated with irrigation projects in
India. The fact that the proposed project would
cover only a five-year time-slice of the fifteen-
year period required to complete the Upper Krishna
Scheme would introduce an additional risk for the
economic analysis, which is based on the complete UKS.
Estimated Cost:                                                  (US$ Millions)
Local  Foreign  Total
Almatti and Narayanpur Dams            44.7     8.1   52.8
Irrigation and Drainage Systems        71.2    19.7   90.9
Land Development                       19.0     3.5   22.5
Village Roads                           7.7     1.4    9.1
Engineering, Supervision and
Administration                      24.0      5.5   29.5
Equipment, Services and
Project Monitoring                   3.1      1.4    4.5
Agricultural Supporting
Services                             3.5      0.4    3.9
Base Cost:                        173.2    40.0  213.2
Physical Contingencies                 17.4     4.1   21.5
Price Escalation                      40.3      9.4   49.7
Total Project Cost:               230.9    53.5  284.4
Financing Plan:       IDA                                    79.4    46.6  126.0
Local Financing:
GOK                               141.5      6.9  148.4
ARDC, LDBs and CBs                 10.0       -    10.0
230.9    53.5  284.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        (US$ Millions)
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83   FY84
Annual                12.0    26.0    31.0    32.0   25.0
Cumulative            12.0    38.0    69.0   101.0  126.0
Rate of Return:       16%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 1835-IN dated March 15, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$126 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance construction of irrigation works and com-
mand area development in the Upper Krishna, Ghataprabha and Malaprabha irri-
gation systems of Karnataka. The proceeds of the credit -- except for part
of on-farm development works and drainage channels (US$7.0 million) -- would
be channelled to the Government of Karnataka in accordance with GOI's standard
terms and arrangements for the financing of State development projects. For
on-farm development works and drainage channels, GOI would relend US$7.0 mil-
lion of the credit to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) for 9 and 15 years at not less than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum, respec-
tively. ARDC would in turn on-lend the funds to the Land Development Banks
(LDBs) and Commercial Banks (CBs) participating in the project at annual in-
terest of not less than 7.5%. The LDBs and CBs would relend the funds to
farmers with repayment periods not exceeding 15 years, including 2 years of
grace, at not less than 10-1/2% annual interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.         India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 620 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is only in part the result of
the low availability of investable resources: India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
but the net transfer of resources from abroad has never been above 3% of
GNP, and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. More signi-
ficant perhaps is the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment
1/   Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Loan for State Joint and Public
Sector Industrial Projects through the Industrial Development Bank of
India (Report No. P-2157-IN), dated November 3, 1977.



rate from about 10% in the early 1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen
years, the trend in GNP growth has remained about the same. This indicates
a marked decline in the efficiency of capital use, in one or two sectors.
In irrigation, investment has for some time been concentrated in major
irrigation schemes with long gestation periods. In industry, heavy capital-
intensive sectors have been developed disproportionately fast. Furthermore,
available existing industrial capacity has been underutilized, particularly
in public sector enterprises. The Government has recently recognized these
problems, and its changes in strategy offer considerable hope that capital
will in general be used more efficiently in the future.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly success-
ful, but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
other parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in
some, decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there
has been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban
poor, conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes
of less than US$70 per annum.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change over the last
two decades. Agriculture remains the dominant sector, with its share of
national product declining slightly measured in constant prices and being
stable at about 50% in current price terms. Agriculture has grown less
rapidly than industry and services over the last twenty years or so, but at
the same time there has been a marked but gradual shift in the terms of trade
in favor of agriculture. Since the late 1960s, the share in national product
of manufacturing industry has remained roughly constant at about 13.5%. There
has, however, been a shift in the composition of manufacturing production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25
years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The Janata, or People's Party, is a amal-
gamation of a number of smaller heterogeneous parties. The state of the eco-
nomy was not a prominent election issue; in fact the economy was generally
stronger than at any time in the last ten years. Over the two years 1975/76
and 1976/77, the growth of GDP averaged 5.4% per annum. Agricultural produc-
tion in 1976/77 did fall by about 3% but only because of a return to a more
normal harvest of 111 million tons after the record 121 million ton output in
1975/76. In fact, the 1976/77 figure is the second largest harvest on record.
The growth of industrial production accelerated over the past two years from
6.1% in 1975/76 to 9.2% in 1976/77. The volume growth of exports continued
its impressive recent performance, and averaged approximately 13% per annum



over the past two years. This export growth, together with hardly any in-
crease in import levels, has resulted in dramatic balance of trade improve-
ments with an estimated deficit for 1976/77 of less than US$500 million. In
sum, the overall resource position with record foreign exchange and foodgrain -
reserves, is exceptionally strong, and gives the Government considerable room
for manoeuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to remark-
ably good rainfall, both in amount and distribution, while the good crop in
1976/77 was produced under somewhat less than normal weather conditions. A
conspicuous change was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by about
25% over 1975/76, following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial
production benefited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of in-
stalled capacity in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import
policy, relatively good power availability, and increased demand because of
higher consumer incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures.
Inflation re-emerged in 1976/77 as an important issue of economic management.
During 1975/76 the wholesale price index had fallen by 8.5%; but in 1976/77
it rose by 11.6%. The key characteristic of this rise was that it occurred
largely in a few agricultural commodities for which prices had dramatically
fallen in the previous year. In the twelve months ending September 1977, the
increase was less than 5%. The overall price index has shown virtually no
trend over the past three years taken together.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous capital and
invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large aggregate net
resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign exchange reserves,
to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the balance of payments
continued to improve, with exports provisionally estimated to have increased
by US$1,145 million against an imports increase of only US$85 million, so that
the trade balance deficit is now estimated at only US$470 million. The
sharply decreased trade deficit, along with a further increase in the net
inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad of US$640 million,
more than offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and the US$365 million
repurchases of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5 billion addition
to reserves, which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
These developments have continued in the current year, with reserves estimated
at US$4.9 billion as of November 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.



-4-
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, less than 3% per annum
over the last twenty-five years, and less than 2% since 1967/68. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to cater
to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has been
necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up growth.
Three promising developments are the sharp increase in government outlays and
improved project implementation for irrigation; the indications that private
investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slowdown in the early 1970s;
and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With regard to more productive
use of existing capacity, there is increased awareness in the Government that
the benefits of irrigation projects can be much increased not only through
command area development but also through more efficient design and operation
of major surface irrigation infrastructure. Finally, a reorganized and improved
extension and research system, which has been recently introduced in several
States in northern and eastern India, holds out the hope that recent produc-
tivity increases on both irrigated and rainfed farms will be sustained in
future.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers. These farmers work 25% of the cultivated land and account
for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly, they make up about
70% of rural population and constitute the majority of those living below the
poverty level in India.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for growth, as serious constraints
on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation, particularly
with respect to coal and imported raw materials and components; however, the
power supply situation is once more somewhat worrisome (paragraph 13 below).
There has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77
Central Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In
many cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in
their markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium-
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for certain chemicals including dye-
stuffs and crude drugs, some electrical equipment, processed agricultural
products, vehicles and automobile ancillaries. But the impact of increased
exports on overall industrial demand will grow only slowly given the current
low share of exports in sales. If the higher growth and productivity in
agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize, it would provide a sig-
nificant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to specify the linkages
explicitly; but because of the large share that agriculture holds in GNP,
the coefficients do not have to be large for agricultural growth and the
concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced inputs and mass con-
sumption goods to boost overall industrial demand significantly. A higher
public deficit and increased public investments are the instruments most



directly under Government control, and also those that can increase demand
for industrial products most immediately. While the first budget of the new
government projects a relatively small deficit, it does maintain a 20-22%
increase in spending over the likely outlay in 1976/77.
13.       The general improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for
India's ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organ-
izational and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been
overcome, stocks are comfortable, and the industry has good prospects for
meeting domestic demand though exports have been cut as a result of a disrup-
tion in explosives supply earlier in the year. The supply of electricity
continues to be a concern, since the power situation is not uniformly good.
Power shortages affect a number of the more industrialized states; as a
result, there is a continued constraint on the expansion of industry. This
is despite a number of favorable factors: greatly improved capacity utiliza-
tion in thermal power stations; more efficient exchange of power between
states; accelerated implementation of power projects; and somewhat improved
availability of finance for power investment. The underlying reason for the
weak power supply position is that capacity shortages continue despite the
improved investment program. The prospects for the oil and gas sector have
been further improved by new finds of oil and gas near the large offshore
Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to shore for the
first time in May 1976; production reached an annual rate of 2 million tons
by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by 1984/85.
Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above the current
level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising imports will be
avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are also bright for
further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of exploration
activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.
Although India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in
comparison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and will continue to slow down, both because
the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death rate will not
fall as steeply as in the past. It is apparent that India's family planning
efforts suffered a setback following the end of the recent emergency period,
and acceptor rates are at very low levels currently. However, the new Gov-
ernment has announced its commitment to a voluntary family planning program
and has maintained ambitious performance targets. Although it will take some
time, adoption of family planning practices is expected to increase to higher
levels. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning effort, it
should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per annum by
the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's population by
2000 is 890 million. Many of the benefits of family planning policy will only
be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in fertility will
bring about an early change in the age structure of the population. The
school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981 thereby



-6-
reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system. The
labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should grow by at least 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
continued export effort, and maintenance of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 53 loans and 97 development
credits to India totalling US$2,015 million and US$4,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$881 million has been
repaid, and US$2,031 million was still undisbursed as of January 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of January 31,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.8 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.1 million, US$23.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.



Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefiting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India'E economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
January 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,168 million, of
which US$662 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$506 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of net disbursements
as compared with an estimated 25% and 31% respectively, in 1975/76. On March
31, 1977, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was US$13.1
billion, of which the Bank Group's share was 25%. The Bank Group's share is



expected to remain around this level in the future. Because Bank Group assist-
ance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the
Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1976/77, about 14% of India's total debt
service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
23.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 42% of national product
and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in
agriculture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
24.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops,
and between regions. The overall rate is very much affected by the serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974. At the same time, the
success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to annual increases in wheat
production of about 20% between 1967 and 1971, and two consecutive favorable
monsoon seasons in 1975 and 1976 resulted in bumper crops in these years.
Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same
success as wheat, mainly because of the difficulties of developing high
yielding seeds. Consequently, the effects of the green revolution, which
primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in northwestern India.
25.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production, India's
agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major factor in
reducing this dependence is the rate of rehabilitation and expansion of irri-
gation and the extent to which more effective use can be made of existing
investment in irrgation facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis
on the improved supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural
credit, and extension services.
Irrigation
26.       Up to 1964/65, the irrigated area in India increased at a rate of
only 2.1% per year, of which about two-thirds was from surface water resources
and one-third from groundwater.  Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development.
At present, the total irrigated area is approximately 45 million ha, of which
about three-fifths is surface irrigated and two-fifths irrigated from ground-
water.
27.       The pace of surface water development remained relatively constant
at about 0.5 million ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-
1973/74). During this period, actual increases in the surface irrigated area



lagged behind GOI's physical plan targets for more rapid development. A
major problem was the continuing tendency of the States to start a large
number of projects, which, given the limited financial resources, could
only be constructed slowly and resulted in delayed benefits. However, in
recent years, budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and the authorities
have increased their efforts to complete on-going projects. As a result,
the new area brought under command in 1976/77 was 1.1 million ha or about
twice what was achieved in any single year before the start of the Fifth
Plan in 1974/75. However, while the increase in area brought under the
command of new surface irrigation projects is impressive, the increase in
area actually irrigated has been more modest than the figures imply -
particularly in the case of major and medium irrigation schemes due to
inadequate distribution and drainage systems. In areas actually receiving
water, irrigation efficiencies remain low and water supply is relatively
unreliable.
28.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1976, also found that the under-
utilization of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated
development in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training, and lack of
efficient extension services and of administrative coordination. It has been
estimated that the majority of recently completed irrigation projects require
additional investments of up to US$600 per ha before they can become fully
productive. Accordingly, GOI and the State Governments have adopted various
measures to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department has
been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work on
selected high priority projects. Such measures for command area development
(CAD) include public investment in irrigation-associated infrastructure such
as drainage, roads, markets, agricultural extension and research - and private
investments, mainly at the farm level - like land shaping and leveling, water
course lining, field channels and drains.
29.        In view of the emergence of high production farm technologies
dependent on effective water control - and given India's already substantial
investment in surface irrigation - the economic return on investment that
improves water delivery or else facilitates better use of the water provided
can be very high. Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irriga-
tion infrastructure as well as command area development are being given high
priority by GOI, and a relatively large proportion of public sector invest-
ment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan allocations
have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and commercial banks
participating in financing command area development programs through farm
credit. In addition, major institutional changes have been proposed affect-
ing the coordination of services in command areas and the administration of
credit. Moreover, new projects are being designed, implemented and operated
on the basis of improved technologies.
30.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, completion of on-going irriga-
tion developments is given equally high priority as command area development.



- 10 -
Agriculture and Irrigation in Karnataka
31.       Karnataka, with an area of about 190,000 km  and a population
of about 30 million, is predominantly agricultural. At least half of the
total area of the State, inhabited by nearly one half of the population,
is drought prone. Of the estimated cultivable area of 12.6 million ha,
about 10.5 million ha are actually cultivated. The total area covered by
irrigation in the State is approximately 2 miLlion ha (out of a potential
estimated at 4.5 million ha), with a net area actually irrigated in 1975/76
of 1.8 million ha or some 14% of the cultivable area. Rice, sorghum, wheat,
millet and pulses are the State's principal food crops. Important cash crops
are sugarcane, cotton, oilseeds, and tobacco.
32.       Karnataka consists of four climatically distinct regions:  (i) The
long narrow coastal belt between the Arabian Sea and the Western Ghats, which
receives a high and assured rainfall during the southwest monsoon season.
Rice is the main crop in this area, and coconuts and arecanuts are extensively
grown. (ii) The Western Ghats, a long narrow mountainous area parallel
to the western coast and adjoining the coastal belt to the east, where again
rainfall is heavy and assured. Rice, coffee, coconut and arecanut are the
principal crops. (iii) The arid northern plateau in the northeast of the
State, which covers the Krishna and Bhima river basins and the northern
part of the Tungabhadra river basin. Rainfall in this region averages only
about 600 mm or less and is highly variable from year to year. The principal
crops grown are sorghum, pearl millet, groundnut and cotton. (iv) The south-
ern plateau located in the southeast of the State, covering the upper Cauvery,
Tungabhadra and Penner river basins. Here also rainfall is low and variable,
but the area receives some irrigation, mainly from tanks. Principal irrigated
crops are rice and sugar cane, while the main rainfed crops are sorghum,
millet, castor and pulses.
33.       In view of the high risk of drought, especially in the plateau re-
gions of the State, the Government of Karnataka (GOK) is giving high priority
to increasing the irrigated area. Of the statewide total irrigation poten-
tial of 4.5 million ha, the Krishna river basin contributes 3.4 million ha.
Within the Krishna basin, irrigation projects presently under construction
are the Ghatapraba, Malaprabha, Tungabhadra and Upper Krishna Schemes. When
completed, these schemes will have the potential to irrigate some 1.6 to 2.0
million ha, of which only 350,000 ha have been developed so far. The Tunga-
bhadra, Ghataprabha and Malaprabha schemes have encountered serious problems
in realizing the potential created by the irrigation infrastructure executed
so far. Construction of field channels and land shaping inside outlet com-
mands had been left to farmers but this approach was not successful.
34.       In order to redress these deficiencies and ensure a more rapid
utilization of irrigation potential created, GOK has, for each of the major
irrigation schemes in the State, established Command Area Development
Authorities (CADAs). Nevertheless, mainly due to organizational inadequacies
(including unclear or inappropriate delineation of responsibilities among the
many institutions involved, and lack of provision for farmers ineligible for



- 11 -
normal credit), land development has remained slow. Of the 200,000 ha of
irrigation potential created in the Malaprabha and Ghataprabha schemes, only
a small area has so far been provided with field channels and land shaping
through the CADAs. Other shortcomings in these areas are the lack of adequate
drainage and access roads. Provisions designed to overcome identified short-
comings have been incorporated in the proposed Project.
35.       The Bank Group has been directly involved in agricultural devel-
opment in Karnataka through four previous IDA credits. Through the Mysore
Agricultural Credit Project, for which a US$40.0 million Credit was approved
in December 1971 (Cr. 278-IN dated January 7, 1972) and disbursed by June
1977, funds were made available to refinance loans to farmers for minor
irrigation, farm mechanization, and land shaping. The Mysore Agricultural
Wholesale Markets Project, which covered a five year investment program of
providing agricultural markets in strategic locations, was assisted by a
US$8.0 million credit, approved in March 1973 (Cr. 378-IN). A third credit,
providing US$30.0 million for implementing Karnataka's integrated program for
increasing milk production through a program based on the highly successful
AMUL dairy scheme, was approved in June 1974 (Cr. 482-IN). The Drought Prone
Areas Project, for which IDA provided a US$35 million credit in January 1975
(Cr. 526-IN), includes one district in Karnataka (Bijapur); it consists of
an integrated set of measures designed to improve agriculture in dry areas
under rainfed conditions. Both the Agricultural Markets Project and the
Dairy Project had slow starts, but have picked up momentum after some, mainly
institutional, adjustments that included new management and revised interme-
diary lending terms. Progress is now satisfactory. The Drought Prone Areas
Project also shows overall satisfactory progress, although implementation of
some components is still slightly behind schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was prepared with assistance from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program and appraised by the Bank in September 1977. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Karnataka Irrigation Project," Report No. 1835-IN, dated
March 15, 1978, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations of this project were held in Washington in March 1978. The
Borrower, the Government of Karnataka, and the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation were represented by a delegation headed by
Mr. J. K. Sibal.
The Project
37.       The objective of the project is to increase agricultural production,
to improve farm incomes, and to provide employment opportunities, primarily
for small farmers and landless laborers, within three major irrigation schemes
presently under construction in northeastern Karnataka: the Upper Krishna
Scheme (UKS) on the Krishna river, and the Ghataprabha and Malaprabha Schemes
located on two tributaries of the Krishna. Basically, the project would



- 12 -
comprise a five year phase of the development of UKS. Under the project,
the pace of development would be accelerated significantly in comparison with
the performance of the past. Improvements would be made both in the design
and construccion standards employed and in the organizational and adminis-
trative arrangements for command area development. The project would also
conta n rrovision for land development - mainly landshaping and construction
of field channels - in the Malaprabha and Ghataprabha Schemes. By completion
of the project investment in 1983, about 105,000 ha of the potential UKS cul-
tivable command area of 425,000 ha would be irrigated. Optimization of returns
on all investments in UKS would be achieved by the development of irrigation
in the full 425,000 ha area. A period of about 15 years, including the five
years of the project, would be required.
38.       The Upper Krishna Scheme is designed to bring about 425,000 ha of
land under irrigation. The scheme is located in the drought prone north-
eastern part of Karnataka in the districts of Gulbarga and Bijapur.
Implementation of the scheme was begun in 1957/58. Progress was minimal
until after 1973/74, when interstate disputes over the sharing of the Krishna
river water were resolved and Karnataka's water rights were established. The
Almatti storage dam, the Narayanpur diversion dam and the first 36 km section
of the 78 km long Left Bank Main Canal branching off from the Narayanpur
reservoir are now under construction. The first three distributaries command-
ing about 7,000 ha are also under construction. The scheme covers a large
command area and, thus, requires an extensive distribution system. To mini-
mize water losses resulting from the long distribution, improved technical
standards have been adopted for the design of the canal system. Most impor-
tantly, canals would be fully lined, except channels of capacities of 0.3 m 3
sec or less in heavy soils, which would be only stabilized with murrum.
39.       About 590,000 people live in the UKS project area, including a total
labor force of about 210,000, of which same 170,000 are agricultural laborers.
There are no large towns in the area, and villages are widely dispersed.
Population density is low at about 90/km . Annual net farm incomes, presently
ranging from about Rs 750 to Rs 5,500 per family, depending largely on farm
size, would on average triple under the project. In 1974/75, average per-
capita income in the UKS area was Rs 650, about three-fifths of the average
per-capita income in India in the same period (Rs 1,020). Due to low rainfall,
farms in the area are generally large. The average farm size is 5.9 ha and the
median size 4.0 ha. Farms below the median size account for about one-sixth
of the land, whilst about one-sixth of the farms (those above 10 ha) account
for nearly half the land. At present, even a family owning a median size farm
(4 ha) is below the poverty line of Rs 600 or US$70.  The land ceiling in
Karnataka on areas irrigated from a Government source is 10 to 12 ha per
family, and 21.25 ha on non-irrigated land. For each family member in excess
of five, the ceiling is increased by 20% up to a maximum of 100% where there
are ten or more family members. Some 90 percent of all holdings are owner
operated.



- 13 -
40.       In UKS, the principal crops grown are sorghum and cotton, together
accounting for two-thirds of the cropped area; some millet, wheat, pulses,
groundnuts, sesamum, gram and safflower are also grown. Overall cropping
intensity is about 85% with 58% in the rabi season and 27% in kharif. Even
in years of favorable rainfall, some 10 to 15% of the cultivable area is
left fallow, and in years of low rainfall, the area uncropped is much greater.
Average crop yields are low, reflecting the unpredictability of the rainfall
and its distribution. Agricultural research in the UKS area is inadequate
and would be improved under the project. GOK plans to establish a main
research center and two smaller sub-centers in UKS. Agricultural extension
services also need to be improved for the project area.   GOK has given
assurances that it will, in consultation with the Association, strengthen
its extension services in the area through improved organization (Section
3.08 of the Project Agreement). The agricultural extension services would be
reorganized along the lines adopted by other States of India under Bank Group
assisted irrigation, command area development and extension projects. GOI is
further seeking Bank Group financing for a national agricultural extension
program. This project, which would also cover the UKS area, is scheduled for
appraisal in mid-1978.
41.       The Ghataprabha Scheme, begun in the late 1950s, is now developing
at the rate of about 26,000 ha per year, and so far 135,000 ha out of a total
potential of 314,000 ha have been brought under irrigation. The Malaprabha
Scheme - slightly smaller with a potential of 212,000 ha, of which 63,000 ha
have so far been brought under command - is progressing at the rate of about
20,000 ha brought under command per year. Agriculture is similar to UKS in
both these schemes. Due to a variety of factors (para 34 above), land devel-
opment has not kept pace with infrastructure development, and, as a result,
much of the land brought under command is not sufficiently prepared to utilize
the available irrigation water efficiently.
42.       The proposed project would comprise in UKS, in the five year imple-
mentation period approximately from April 1978 to March 1983: completion of
the Almatti and Narayanpur dams; resettlement of some 13,000 families displaced
by the new reservoirs; completion of the Narayanpur Left Bank Canal from about
km 36 to km 78, including the 3 km long Rajankollur tunnel and the 1 km long
Gundalgeri tunnel, and construction of the 76 km Shahapur Branch Canal; provi-
sion of distribution and drainage systems serving 105,000 ha; construction of
field irrigation channels to individual farms for 80,000 ha and of field
drainage channels and on-farm works for 25,000 ha. The project would include
a program to rehabilitate and upgrade about 70 km of existing village roads
and to construct about 530 km of new village roads, together serving an area
of 105,000 ha. Water use efficiencies and the economic and social impact of
the project would be monitored, agricultural research facilities would be
established, and a Land Development Training Center for training staff on
design, execution, and management of land development works would be set up
under the project. Construction of field channels and on-farm works on 26,000
ha of the Malaprabha command and on 5,000 ha of the Ghataprabha command would
also be undertaken.
43.       In UKS, the Narayanpur and Almatti dams are scheduled for completion
by early 1980 and 1983, respectively.  Irrigation, drainage and road networks



- 14 -
would be completed by 1990, and land development by 1993. Completion of UKS
would, thus, take about fifteen years. It is not desirable to condense the
construction period further. The implementation program for UKS, including
the project, is based on labor-intensive methods, which would require a
staff of about 1,800 engineering-trained personnel and a labor force of about
50,000. This is appropriate: The construction technology proposed is well
adapted to India's economic circumstances, as experience from other projects
on the Deccan Plateau indicates that it would be extremely difficult - if not
impractical - to assemble and organize a labor force of more than 50,000
workers. Capital-intensive construction methods would be undesirable for two
reasons. First, the design and implementation of land development is a slow
and time-consuming process, which cannot be speeded up further. Thus, more
rapid implementation of the infrastructure works would increase the lag between
the time water becomes available and proper preparation of the land for irri-
gated agriculture. This would lead to a loss of potential benefits and the
establishment of improper and wasteful farming practices that are difficult
to correct. Second, the economic cost of mechanical work is substantially
higher than the cost of labor-intensive work, especially in an area charac-
terized by under-employment. It would be neither practical nor desirable to
extend IDA financing over the full fifteen year construction period; instead,
a five-year time-slice (April 1978 - March 1983) has been chosen for the pur-
poses of project definition. IDA involvement at this particular stage in
project development is highly appropriate, as it provides as opportunity to
influence the design and implementation of the distribution system, which in
Indian irrigation projects is the most critical phase of project development,
and on-farm works. In the course of appraisal, GOK has decided to line vir-
tually the entire distribution system down to farm turn-outs (para 38 above),
to assume responsibility for the construction of field channels inside pipe
outlet commands (para 44 below), to construct better and more control struc-
tures, and to introduce better communication network along the canals and a
monitoring program for conveyance and water use efficiencies (para 42 above).
Given the high priority that GOK is attaching to rapid completion of UKS, the
risk that implementation of the full project might discontinue after the five-
year period covered by the proposed credit, is neglible. GOK has confirmed
that it should be technically and financially feasible to complete UKS within
fifteen years, and that, to this end, it will make every effort to allocate in
its annual budget proposals funds sufficent to complete UKS within this period.
44.       The Irrigation Department of GOK would be directly responsible for
planning and construction of the Almatti and Narayanpur dams, the irrigation
system down to the pipe outlets, major drainage system, and village roads.
Two Chief Engineers, reporting to GOK's Special Secretary, Irrigation, would
be in charge of design and execution of the dams and of the remaining infra-
structure, respectively. State level policy for command area development is
formulated by a Cabinet Sub-Committee and by a Secretariat Committee chaired
by the Chief Secretary. At the project level, Command Area Development
Authorities (CADAs) have been established in 1974 for Malaprabha and
Ghataprabha and in 1977 for Upper Krishna. For each CADA, an Administrator
is the chief executive for planning and implementation of the command area
development program. This includes operational control over agricultural



- 15 -
extension activities. In UKS, land development would be executed by the
Engineering Wing of CADA. Preparation and follow-up of farmers' loan applica-
tions for the financing of land development (see para 47 below) would be the
responsibility of a Cooperative Wing. In the Malaprabha and Ghataprabha
projects, the implementation of land development works has been delegated to
the Soil Conservation Service of the State Agriculture Department, and this
arrangement would be retained under the project. Thus, responsibilities for
project implementation and operation are now clearly delineated.
45.       Engineering designs for project infrastructure would conform with
established GOI standards, which are satisfactory. For the canal system, im-
proved standards have been adopted to reduce conveyance and operational losses
(para 38 above). A panel of Indian experts, chaired by the Chairman of GOI's
Central Water Commission (CWC), has been appointed to review the designs of
dams and related structures, including design floods and construction methods,
and has reported its findings to the Association and to GOK. Its recommenda-
tions are acceptable to the Association. GOK has confirmed that they are
being implemented. Construction would primarily be carried out by manual
labor. Structures would be of concrete or rock masonry.
46.       Land development would comprise the works required within the outlet
commands of about 20 to 30 ha each. The following works would be constructed:
(i) field irrigation channels to convey irrigation water from the pipe outlet
to each individual farm; (ii) drainage channels to drain excess water from
each farm to the major drainage system; and (iii) on-farm works (land shaping,
farm irrigation and drainage ditches). Channels would be lined or stabilized,
as appropriate (see para 38 above), to avoid poor water management and high
seepage and operational losses. Each farm would be provided with a gated farm
turnout to receive water from the field irrigation channel, and with access to
a field drainage channel. Field channels and on-farm drainage ditches, would
be constructed by small contractors, mainly through manual labor. Structures
would be prefabricated. Rough land shaping by machinery would be carried
out by contractors. Land smoothing to final grades would be executed by the
farmers themselves under the guidance of CADA. Participation in land develop-
ment would be compulsory.
47.       Financing for land shaping and farm drainage channels would be avail-
able to farmers from Land Development Banks (LDBs) and participating Commercial
Banks (CBs). Loans for eligible farmers, secured by mortgages, would be for a
maximum period of 15 years, including two years of grace, at annual interest of
not less than 10-1/2%. Up to 90% of such loans would be refinanced, at not
less than 7.5% annual interest, by the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC), to which a portion of the credit proceeds would be relent
for this purpose (see para 49). Land development loans to farmers, who are
ineligible for such ordinary loans, e.g. because of defective land title, or
who are unwilling to apply for ordinary loans, would receive unsecured Special
Loans, which would be fully refinanced from a Special Loans Account agreed
upon by GOI, GOK and ARDC and set up by ARDC with a 50% contribution from GOI
and a 25% contribution each from GOK and ARDC. It would be a condition of
disbursement for on-farm works: (i) that financial arrangements satisfactory



- 16 -
to IDA have been made between GOI and ARDC for relending US$7.0 million from
the credit to ARDC; (ii) that IDA has received a detailed training program for
the land development staff; and (iii) that IDA has received a satisfactory
banking plan for UKS (Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The estimated total cost of the five-year project is US$284.4 mil-
lion equivalent, net of taxes and duties. This includes US$32 million worth
of on-going civil works contracts (and related expenditures for contingencies,
design, management and administration) that have been awarded before appraisal
and, thus, are not eligible for financing from the proposed credit. The
foreign exchange component of total project cost is US$53.5 million (19%),
including US$6.9 million for contracts not eligible for financing. The
principal cost components net of contingencies are: Almatti and Narayanpur
dams (US$52.8 million), irrigation and drainage systems (US$90.9 million),
land development (US$22.5 million), village roads (US$9.1 million) and engi-
neering, supervision and administration (US$29.5 million), The balance is
made up by equipment, services and project monitoring (US$4.5 million), agri-
cultural supporting services (US$3.9 million), physical contingencies
(US$21.5 million) and price escalation (US$49.7 million).
49.       The proposed credit of US$126 million would cover 44% of total
project costs, or 50% of project costs net of ineligible contracts. It
would finance all eligible foreign exchange costs (US$46.6 million) and
US$79.4 million of local costs. Local cost financing is justified in India
for projects such as this for the reasons discussed in paragraph 20. The
Government of Karnataka would finance 52% of total project cost. The balance
would be contributed by ARDC, LDBs and CBs. Of the proceeds of the credit,
GOI would channel US$119.0 million to GOK on the standard terms and arrange-
ments on which development funds are being provided to State governments by
the Center. US$7.0 million would be passed on by GOI to ARDC, at the standard
terms for lending by GOI to ARDC, with 9 to 15 years maturity (depending on
maturities of loans to be refinanced) at not less than 6.75 and 7.25% annual
interest, respectively. ARDC in turn would refinance 75% to 90% of the land
development loans extended to farmers by LDBs and CBs at not less than 7.5%
annual interest, repayable in accordance with the terms of the loans to the
farmers.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:
on-farm works (US$7.0 million), other civil works (US$108.0 million), and
vehicles and equipment (US$5.1 million). The remaining US$5.9 million would
be left unallocated.
51.       The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment for project management,
monitoring, operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and village
road construction is US$4.3 million net of contingencies. of this total,



- 17 -
an estimated US$0.6 million would be subject to international competitive bid-
ding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
About US$3.7 million worth of vehicles and equipment are not suitable for ICB.
Of these, US$1.1 million represents contracts of less than US$100,000 each, for
which ICB would be quite inefficient. The remaining US$2.6 million consists
mainly of field vehicles and trucks for which, because of existing servicing
and spare part supply facilities, there are considerable benefits to be derived
from procuring local models. They would therefore be procured locally through
normal procurement procedures of GOK, which are acceptable to IDA.
52.       Civil works for the Almatti dam spillway gates, for 37 km of the
Left Bank Canal, for the Rajankollur and Gundalgeri tunnels, and for the
Shahapur Branch Canal (US$63.8 million net of contingencies) would be procured
under ICB. Tenders on ICB contracts for the Left Bank Canal and the Shahapur
Branch Canal would be divided into up to ten subcontracts to encourage the
participation of local contractors, who would be entitled to a 7-1/2% prefer-
ence in bid evaluation. Tenderers would be allowed to bid for sections
separately, for any combination of sections, or for the complete works.
The remaining civil works are individually small, scattered over wide areas,
and would need to be carried out in periods between cropping seasons. Much
of the construction work and land development work would be implemented inter-
mittently as determined by seasonal weather conditions and by the on-going
agricultural activities in the project areas. In these circumstances it would
not be feasible or economic to combine these works into contracts sufficiently
large to attract international competition. It is therefore proposed that they
be carried out by local contractors under small contracts to be let on the
basis of competitive bidding or through piece work type contracts. Where bids
are not received, the work is being implemented under force account. Force
account work would also be used in specified circumstances, where required by
safety or quality considerations; such force account work would be limited to
a maximum of 25% of civil works.
53.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment or against the ex-factory price
of equipment manufactured locally. For imported items procured locally,
disbursements would be at the rate of 70%. Disbursements for civil works
would also be on a percentage basis (55% of ARDC's refinance for on-farm
works, and 70% of cost for other civil works). Full documentation would be
required for all disbursements, except for payments of up to Rs 50,000 for
civil works and Rs 20,000 for equipment and vehicles, for which disbursements
would be made against certificates of expenditure. The supporting documents
for these payments would not be submitted to the Association but would be
retained by GOI and GOK for inspection by project review missions. The credit
would be expected to be fully disbursed by March 1984, about one year after
completion of the five year project slice.
Benefits and Economic Justification
54.       The five year phase financed by IDA forms an integral part of UKS
with a cultivable command area of 425,000 ha and, thus, the benefits and



- 18 -
justification for completing UKS have been assessed. Agriculture in the area
is presently heavily dependent on rainfall. Completion of UKS would reduce
this dependence and provide farmers with more assured and increased income
levels. Development of UKS would also help achieve two other objectives,
firstly increased foodgrain production, and secondly, additional employment
opportunities to landless laborers and small farmers. At full development in
about the year 2000, production increases are estimated at 765,000 tons of
foodgrain, 109,000 tons of cotton, 110,000 tons of oil-seeds and 11,500 tons
of chillies. The value added to the economy would be about US$211 million per
year. About 83,000 new full-time jobs for on-farm work would be created. In
addition, about 60,000 man-years of non-farm employment would be generated.
Net farm incomes would on average triple and reach an estimated US$2,013 for
the median 4.0 ha farm. The economic rate of return for investments in UKS,
costing US$541 million net of contingencies over fifteen years, is estimated
at 16%, discounting costs and benefits a 50 year period and including sunk
costs for investments already made. For land development in the Malaprabha
and Ghataprabha areas under the five year project, the cost of which is
estimated at US$8.9 million net of contingencies, the economic rate of return
is estimated at about 45%. The average economic rate of return is 16%.
Cost Recovery
55.       The investment cost for the irrigation and drainage networks would
be Rs 9,585 per ha, and the annual charge for recovering these costs over 50
years at 10% interest would be Rs 970 per ha. Annual costs for operation and
maintenance are estimated at Rs 70 per ha. On-farm works, costing Rs 1,800
per ha on average, would be financed through institutional credit (paragraph
47 above) and fully repaid by the farmers within 15 years. Annual payments
on loans, after the two year grace period, would amount to Rs 260 per ha in
constant 1978 terms. Thus, full recovery of all investment and O&M costs
would require annual payments of Rs 1,300 per ha for the areas benefitting
from on-farm development and Rs 1,040 per ha for the areas, where no on-farm
development has yet been provided or where the farmer is financing these works
himself or where he has repaid the loan.
56.       In addition to Rs 260 per ha as annual payment on loans (paragraph
55 above), farmers benefitting from the project would be charged a Betterment
Levy of Rs 3,700 per ha, to be paid over 20 years in annual installments of
Rs 185 per ha. The Betterment Levy has not been collected systematically in
Karnataka; however, GOK has given assurances that it would systematically
assess and collect the Betterment Levy from UKS beneficiaries (Section 3.11(a)
of the Project Agreement). The prevailing water rates depend on crops and
are estimated to average Rs 50 per ha under the projected cropping pattern.
Incremental land revenue as a result of irrigation is Rs 15 per ha, plus a
Rs 9 per ha local tax. Taking into account all water and water-related charges,
annual payments for the lands benefitting from land development would amount to
Rs 520 per ha while land development loans are being repaid, and Rs 260 per ha
thereafter.



- 19 -
57.       As a result of the project, net farm incomes would about triple
(for present incomes see para 39 above). The average "project rent" (net
incremental income less the necessary rewards to the farm family for its labor,
entrepreneurship and cultivation risk) is estimated at Rs 2,500 per ha. Since
total annual charges to the farmers (para 56 above) would represent only 21%
of the project Lent during the loan repayment period and 11% thereafter, they
would, even if fully collected, leave sufficient incentive to project farmers
to use irrigation water. In fact, there would appear to be scope for a signi-
ficant increase in the water-related charges collected under the project.
However, there are large variations in the benefits accruing between farmers
in the same project. Until it is technically and administratively possible
to implement volumetric water charges, the Government will set water charges
at an inherently low level in order to give sufficient incentive to use irri-
gation water, and will rather focus on taxes, which are easier to assess and
collect. Substantial increases in GOK revenues would accrue as a consequence
of UKS in the form of incremental sales and income taxes. If fully assessed
and collected, these would amount to an estimated Rs 910 per ha. This would
raise total GOK revenues under the project to about Rs 1,170 per ha which would
be equivalent to 113% of the annual amount required to recover all government-
financed project cost. This reflects the fact that GOK is making a strong tax
effort. Over the past few years, Karnataka's tax revenue per capita and as a
percentage of state income was about 40% higher than the national average.
Under these circumstances, present charges to beneficiaries under the project
are considered appropriate. In order to increase cost recovery in the future
and guard present charges against erosion by inflation, GOK has given assur-
ances that it will review and, if necessary, increase its water and water-
related charges in the project area from time to time with the objective of
collecting full operational and maintenance cost and, to the extent possible,
cost of infrastructure investment, having regard, inter alia, for the incen-
tives and repayment capacity of farmers in the area (Section 3.11(b) of the
Project Agreement).
Project Risk
58.       The project would provide sufficient water for the proposed cropping
pattern. Thus, the risk associated with water supply is limited. The economic
rate of return is particularly sensitive to the completion of the full UKS.
This risk is reduced, as explained in paragraph 43 above, by GOK's assurance
that UKS would be completed as early as is technically and financially feasible.
But even if GOK would discontinue project implementation once the five year
time slice covered by the proposed credit has been executed, the economic rate
of return would still be 10%. It would also be 10% for UKS, if construction
prices increase by 15%, crop yields decrease by 15% and output prices decrease
by 25%. Another risk is associated with the need to resettle about 13,000
families which would be displaced by the two reservoirs. Provision for their
resettlement has been made as part of the proposed project. GOK has a firm
policy, laid down in a Government order of 1970, for the rehabilitation of
persons whose lands come under submersion under irrigation or power projects.
The amenities to be provided to such persons under this policy include provid-
ing lands for cultivation, and GOK has given assurances to this effect for the



- 20 -
proposed project (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement). GOK has already
made comprehensive administrative arrangements for the implementation of its
rehabilitation policy. Thus, overall investment risks under the project are
acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Karnataka, the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and
ARDC, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Making of financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC for relend-
ing US$7.0 million of the proposed credit to ARDC, the receipt of a detailed
training program for land development staff, and the preparation of a Banking
Plan for the project area have been made conditions of disbursement in respect
of the on-farm works component of the project (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule I
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1978



ANNEX I
INDIlA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                             Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                    ------------------------------------------------
INDIA                                 REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      3280.5                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1780.7                          1960       1970   ESTIMATE             INDONESIA       PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (JSS5)                       60.0*    100.0*    150.0/a*               130.0*       230.0*      550.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            434.9       547.6      620.4/a              117.6         36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        133.0       167.0     189.0/a                62.0        123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         252.D       306.0     348.U7la              414.0       375.0         49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           43.2        41.0       37.0                 45.9         44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)             23.9       19.0       17.0                 20.6         13.2          9.9
INFANT IrRTALITY RATE (/tHOU)         139.0/a        .       130.0                   ,         80.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         41.7        47.2       49.5                    ,        S.5          03.;.
GROSS REPRODUCT1"N PrTE                  3.2        2.9        2.8                  3.2          3.3          2.11
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 1%)
TOTAL                                    2.0        2.3        2.2                  2.0          3.0         2.9
URBAN                                    2.5/b      3.2        3.1                  3.7 /a       4.0          5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             17.9       19.9        20.6                17.5 /b      27.6         56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         41.0        41.6       40.1 /b              44.0        45.6         42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                         55.9        55.3       56.7 7rb             53.5        51.6         55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                        3.1        3.1        3.2 76               2.5          2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       0 8                    0.8                 0.9          0.9          0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1/c      1.1/a       1.2 /c                .,         1.s          1.5
FAM.LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           71.0   14565.0   37658.0                   259.3       354.0        250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ,.         ..       1B.7                               2.0          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         175000.0  218000.0  248000.0 /a                    ..    12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           71.0        69.0       69.0                   .-         s5.0 /a     40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              1.O0 *d                1.7                   .          7.6          7.5
INCOME DISTR!BUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCUMIE REC G 3T-
HIGHEST  s% OF HOUSEHOLDS               26.7       25.0/b       S. .,. ,                                     s3.0 /a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              51.7        53.17b        ..                  ..           ,,        62.0 7S9
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4,1         4.77W        ..                  ..           .          3.0Q7T
LOwESt  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6        t3.1 t        .                   ..           ..         o.oa
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
1 OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                            ..                                                     45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              ..          .                                                       1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               5940.0/e f4890.0    4220.0                 26370.0           .       1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          530. 07M       220.0/c 3680.0ld             76430/.C                 3220.0/b
FOPULATION P'ER HOSPITAL BED           2590.07   1610.0--                          1 640. 0-     860.0       260. 6--
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)            95.0       92.0       89s0/e               91.0         93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                55.0        53.0       52.07o               43.0         45.0        64.0
-OF  !HICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          19.0        16.0          .                 14.0        22.0         39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               44.0          .          ..                   ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         39.0        65.0       79.0/b               6r. 0        13.0        67.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         9.0          ..      28. 07TW             i2.o -        9
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                12.0       12.0       11.0                 12.0         10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                        9.0         60/d         .29.0                           6.0/b      17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   24.0       33. 0-      36-0/b,             59.0           . 6        64.0
HOUSING
PFRSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   2.6          . .       2.8                   . .        2.1          1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WII.-;OUT
PIPED WATER (x)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                             76.0        73.0/C
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                                                            23.0        46.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                                                                               7.0          6.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU Pop)             5.D       21.0        24.0                114.0        45.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)              0.7         1.0        1.0                  2.0         8.0         25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              46.0      114.0       143.0                 20.0       235.0        491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  0.2        0.3         0.3                  0.3         2.0          2.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE                                       



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
ienes otherwise noted, data far 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970  between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Eitimate between
1973 and 1975.
a fNP per napita data are based an the World Bank Atlas nethodology (1974-76 basin)
n*   Brail hat been seleoted as an objetitve  .o.ntry benanseof itn  sie and t-oparablo proble-t  of regIonal iteqoetivy.
TNDIA             1960    /a  1951-61 average;    /b  1951-60;    /I  Ratio of popalati-o  onder 15 and 65 and over to labor forte age 15 and over;
/d  Rieeitered applitents  for -orkn;    I   1962;    /f  Regoitered, not all practiolsRg  ao rho  -o-nrr;    /L    ntlodieg
midwives;    /h  1958;    /i  1960-62.
1970    /a  Ratio of popalatton andor 15 aod 65 aod over to labr forte age 15 and aver                  IS  1967-68;    /t  Inniding midwiveo;
id 1967.
MOST RECENT ESTMATE;    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    Ic  Ratio of popolation undor 15 and 65 and over to labor forte age 15 and over;
/d  Includiog midwi-fs;    /c  1969-71 average;    if  Popution 19 year-  and over.
10NDONFSIA        1970    /a  1961-71        /b  197L-    /t  Inluding mfdwies.
PHILIPPINES       1970    /a  An percentage of nmplovment;    /b  ton in-luding prvate notational schono.
BRAZIL            1970    ia  Efonomically antive population;    /b  HonPital personnel;               n  Inoide only.
Rl., ioember t, 1977
DEY7NITIONS OF SOCIAL IND.ILATORS
Land Area (thou km2)                                                                          Ppoplntion per norsin  person - Population dioided by nuaber of practining
Total - fetal snrfacs area comprising land area and inland watere.                              male and female gradeuto norses, "trained" or "tertified" sners, and
Agri. - Most retest estimate of agri-oio.rel aree used temporarily or Pe-a-                     euxtliary personnel with training or epe-ien-e.
nently far crops, panstres, m,rket & hitchen gerdees or to lie falloa                       P.pualtiem  per hospital bed -              dop sa  divIded by meeter of bopite  beds
soe lleble In pablin and poloatre general and speo-lilfed hospital end
GNP Pee -aPita  (US1 ) - GNP per oapite estimates atorrent marker prices,                       rebhbilitetion teeters;  sexludes nore ig h-en  and eetnbliehme.st far
calneisoed by s.ane canner Iorn nethd as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis)                    ottodial and prevent  -e tae.
1960; 1970 and 1975 date.                                                                  Per capits sorely of calories 1% of regoreCnpnt) -   pomted fra energy
eq7nI.ne te of ant feed -pp1is a-ellable In teentsy par capita Per day;
Populatiop and vital  taiticg                                                                   available supplies oelPise d-eatit prod-ction, imparts lees exporte, and
Popiastion (mid-year milliem-   As ef July first:  If net  -eilable, a-erage                    than_gee in  took; net supplies e-tlode animal feed, seeds, quantrtiesased
ef two end-year eatimetes; 1960, 1970 and 1975 dsta.                                          in iaod pra.e.e tig end losss in diterib.oien; requirents were esti -iated
Op FAO hoenn  en physialegiel nee ds for sera  actliriy and health c-nid-
Populatiem  den.irn - per aquare ke  - Mid-yeer pepulatie  per sqesre kilaneter                ering  oeinvoReaetat tempersrue, body ceighte, age and see distnibhotin-  of
(100 bectares) of total area.                                                                popolation, and alalewig 15O  for weste at hbueeheld len.-
Peonlatiep density - per square I. ef naric, land - Compoted as aebey  for                    Per canitn  sUpplv of protein (graca per day) - Protein neatest of per capita
eorlesltursl land only                                                                        net supply of food per day; net s-pply nf fod is defined as above; require-
mense for all coutries esneblished by OlSGA it-eit Reesa.rob Servine
Vital  tatistics                                                                                pr-vide for a miniesp allewence af 60 gras of tetal proteie per day, and
Creds birth rate per theu2and. average - AnPual lio  births per theusand of                     20 grams of animal and pulse prtein, of vhith 10 grs   shouId be animal
mid-year populanien; tee-year art ihsnt aversgee ending in 1960 and lVSC,                     protein; these standarda are lower than thbse of 75 gras of cete1 protein
and five-year average teding in 1975 far cost reoent enaime.                                  and 23 gren   of animal protein an en svrnge fer the werld, propesed by FAO
Crude death rate per ihoasand  average - Anneal deathb  per thowand ef mid-year                 is the Third World FoAd Surey.
pnpslatian; ten-year arit-setic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                   Per cepits orotele soP1o fr-n atiual sod plse - Pratei  supply af food
year average  ending in 1975 far aoee  retent estimate,                                       derived fran animals and pulses in gracen per day.
Insfeat artalits rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under ane year of age                Death raie (/thou) ages 1-4 - Aenna I deaths per thoosand in age grasp 1-4
per thensand live  births,                                                                    yess, taochildren in tbie age group; suggested as an idiesrtr of
Life eseectaney ar birth fyra) - Average memb-r of years of life repsining at                   nIntrrftien.
birth; aoally fivs-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 fee develep-
leg  eduPtrita                                                                              Educatiop
Crosa reproduction rate - Average nmber of live  daughters a wenam  will bear                 Adjuted enrollemnt ratia - primary -choel - Enrollment of a11 ag   as per-
in her noomal repr-doctive periad If she caperi.c. preset age'-pen ifiI                      n-tage of primary -tb-l-age popsl.iara; ieledes ebildeen aged 6-Il yearn
fertilinp  este; usaslly five-year  ve rags eding In 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjusted for different lengths of prioary i    dudetf  ; fee dr -etrie with
for developing ceunnies .nivoreel education, e-ollenn rmay eaerd 1017. sin.e  tox  papils are beloa
Ponplatien growth rate (7) - total - Ce-p.nd annual growth rstee of nid-year                    or above the offinial school  ge.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Ad1usted enrellemet ratio - seeceda's school - C-fpeled a. ebove; eseendery
Panolanian grotth  rate (TI - urbsn - Computed like growth rate of tetal                        edca.tion requires at leas t fcr years of approved pripary intsr-ctin;
populatien; different definitiena ef urban areas may affect sanperability of                  provides general, vn-atinl er teacher training ineroctioen   for pupils
deta among ossctries.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years  f age; torraspandeene  -ourses sre generally ...loded.
Urban .upulatiem (% of tstul9 - Ratio of arban to total pnpulanion; different                 Years of ethbeliec providad (first and seceod levele) - Tate1 year  of
definitiene of arbhn areas may affect nomparability af date ameng ceantris.                   schnoliog; at secondary 1-oel, v.a.tional instructien may be partially or
oe.pletely .ecluded.
Ace strucrare (cercent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age (15-64 yearn),                  Vfcutienel nnrolLmnent ( of seenndaro) - Vovati-nal in-i-nti-os  itni,,de
and retired  (65 years and over) an percentages of mid-year populafti.n                       tehnical, indusoria1 or other programs whcib operate independently er
Age depeedency  arati  - tatio of papolatien under 15 and 65 and none te thnse                  deparuneots of necondsry ienstitions.
of ages 15 thr-ogh 64.                                                                      adult It tera   rate (/)1 - Literatoadolts (ablce.to rd end write) an per-
Iacano        . de.esdencI ratio - Rlilo of popalation unden 15 and 65 and attn no              cencage of total adolt population aged 15 years snf over
the labor force in age groep of 15-64 yeara.
F-pilo planninng - ecpc-ra  (um_lative, tha) - Cfoalativo  s=boer of acneptore                 eog..n.
af birth-c-otrol dev-tes under aespicen of natirnal fa=ily planning proogrg                 Perens perr ras (urban) - Anergge n-nber of persons per roan in ocin-ped
since inception . -oevntlonal dvrlliegt in arban areas; dwellinge eatlude ton-Permanent
Family olanning-usern  (7 of earned canel - Perctages af married o=en of                        ot-:o nores and  --nocupied parte
thild-earing age (15-46 years) who  aer birth-eonc2l device  ro all married                fcoplad dwellings 0106ou1 pined water fit) - Occpied conentianal dwellings
wanen it, same age group.                                                                     in nhan and meal areas vithout inside or outsIde piped  ater failities
as percentage of all occupied dwellinga.
Employnt                                                                                      atoes to electricIty (7 tf all doelliga) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor forte (thousand) - Ecananically entine persons, ineluding armed                     rlnnnrinito lioit,g q-an-e-e an per.c..  of total dwellings  n urtan and
forces and anempleyed but excluding h.o.seies, students, etc.; definitions                    rural
in varioas coentries areonoet -perable.                                                     Rural theellings connted n  elecnricty (/) - CtePperd as abate for rural
Laber farce in agricultore (1%  - Agritoltural  labor  Iete fin fuming, forestry                dellings only.
hunning and fishing) as percentage of trtal labor IfeI.
Unemployed(7. of labor fare.) - Unemployed arc utually defined as per-asuho                  aCnsemption
are able and willing to take a job, not of a jab on a given day, remained nan              Rgdis teceivers (per that par) - All types of reneiners far radio henad-ests
of a job, and seling work for a specIfied nintias    peried nst nmoccding One                 to general poblin per thousand of populatfop; eacludna ocliceosed reoci-ers
week; asp er he  apsenrable between countries doe be different definiti-ne                    in noutries and in years when regitrtion of radio sets was in effet;
of un-played and sorce of detn, e.g., asplayncet affi-e etatitien, sample                     data for rscrnt yesrs may non be toeparable niece aoat toontries abolished
aurvsys, canpelsery otauplsmsenr ieserance.                                                   licensing.
Passemeer oars (one thon rep) - P-seenger tore celrPriee metr   res scatkieg
I-nee distribution - Perceetage of private ione -  (both in  -ash and kind)                     lens than sight persoms; enlodes ambol-anes, hearess and military
receried by richest 57, richeat 202, pooresc 20%, and poorest 407 of house-                   vehicles
holda.                                                                                      tlecctrcltv (kwb/pr per caP) - Anoual canstusptifn of industrial, taecnercial,
pobIlansd prin-ne Ileetrinity in~ kilowatt hours per cepita, generally
Dinnribution of land eaPerebip r-Percentages of land  wned by wealthites  107                   hboed an pr-d-ttis dana,  ihoot anlloane for lasses in grids her allow-
and poorest 107 of land osnern                                                                ieg ftr imparts and exports of electricity.
N-pcseiet (kg/vr per car) - Per nspita annual  nanemptitn in kilogr6ms
Health snd NutritieP                                                                            estimated free  doentcic producinon plot not impertn of -ewaprint.
Pennurti-n per phyeisi-  - Populactio  diided by  -tmhe- of practcinig
phbvfiiann qualified frees a fedical -nh-al at ttiyersity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONCUIC DEVELOPMNT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979    US$ 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/76  E/ AliAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US1  Bln.       %                                         1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices              82.8        100.0                                             3.8                  3.7                  2.6
Gross Domestic Investment        <16.7         20.1
Gross National Saving             16.0         19.3
Current Account Balance          -0.7          -0.8
Resource Gap                      -1.5         -1.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
ValuA Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
1S1  Bln.  ln.6                         Nilv e
Agriculture                       24.5             46.6                 130.0    72.1             188            64
Industry                          11.8             22.3                  20.2    11.2             582           199
Services                          16.3             31.1         5         0,2   16.7              542           186
Total/average                     52.6            100.0                 180.4   100.0             292           100
GOVNDI4RET FINANCE
General Government _/                                      Central Government
(Re. Bin)              7 of GDIP                                                   ofBln)  % ---P GDP
1975/76       1975/76   1973/74-1975/76                 1975/76         1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                   133.34         18.5           16.7                        79.11          11.0           9.8
Current Expenditures               118.77         16.5           15A                         70.05           9.7           8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit             14.57          2.0            1.4                         9.06           1.3           1.0
Capital Expenditures  e/            54.27          7.5           6.2                        40-75            5.6           4.6
External Assistance (net)           13.89          1.9            1.3                        13.89           1.9           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  1965/66    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76       September 1975    September 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                       61.4       122.4      142.2      169.1       187.2      213.6           199.0             238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                40.8       69.0        82.5       92.9      102.6       108.5          112.8              112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector               28.1       64.4        76.0       90.1       109.5      134.2          106.0              143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                       January 1976       January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           24.0       26.4        27.9       27.1        26.2       27.9
Wholesale Price Index
1961/62 = 100)                          131.6      188.4      207.1       254.2      313.0       302.8          290.0             320.5
Annual peroentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                        7.7         4-0        9-9       22.7        23.1                                         10.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                12.9       21.3        19.6       12.6       10.4         5.7                               4-7 gl
Bank Credit to Private Sector               12.8       13.6        18.0       18.5       21.5        22.5                              24.6
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
,/  Quick Estimates.
S/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
f/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
A' Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYI'ENTS                 1973/74       19475        I975L76        1976/77              fYRlhANCDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(usi million                                                          US$ M.. 91
Exports of Goode                      3,239         4,174         4,555         5,400                Sugar                         342          9
imports of Goods                     -3,>,i       -5,794         -6,085       -5,850                 Jute ManufacLres             317           8
Trade Balanoe                        -  752        -1,620        -1 ,530         -450                Tea               k/          249          6
NFS (net)  f/                          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.                 Cotton Textiles              413          10
Iron Ore                     206           5
Resource Gap                           n.a.          n.a.          n.a.        n.a.                  Engineering Goods            391          10
Others                     2.071          52
Interest Payments (net)              -  233         - 260         - 250         - 280                Total                      3,989         100
Other Factor Payments (net)            n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Net Transfers  i/                      n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Balanoe on Current Accounts            n.a.          n.E.          n.a.         n.a.                 EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1976
Official Aid                                                                                                                               UNS 2111I6icn
Disbursements                     1,249         1,766         2,326       2,050                  Repayable in foreign currency            12.3
Amortization                      - 459        - 519          - 516       - 560                  Repayable through cxport of goods         0.7
Transactions with IMF                    75           515           205        - 365                 Total Outstanding and Disbursed          13.0
All Other Items                         205            80           559        1,100                 D        V      T        1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77           15,5  per-:nt h/lJ<
Increase in Rescrves (-)               -105            38         - 794       41,495
Gross Reserves (end year)             1,416         1,378         2,172        2,667                 I8DE/IDA LENDING, January  31, 1978   (ust lan.)
Net Reserves (end year)               1,341           783         1,332        3,202
IERD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed             481.1   3,574.3
Imports                                 720         1,451         1,417        1,625                 Undisbursed                            662.0   1,369.1
of which: Petroleum                  719         1,451         1,417       1,625                  Outstanding including
Endisbursed                         1,143.1   4,943.4
Exeorts                                  20            26            41          n.a.
of which: Petroleum                   16            17            22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCHARGE
Prior to mid-December 1971          US$1.00  =  Re 7.5                                               After end June 1972    *   Floating Rat-
Rs 1.00  =  U5$0.133333                                          Spot Rate  March  4, 1978
Mid-December 1971 to            :  US81.00  =  Ra 7.27927                                                        approx. USS1.00 = Rs.  8o08
end June 1972                    Rs 1.00  = US50.137376                                                        approx. Rs 1.00 = 0S$   0.12376
_/ Estimated.
i/  Included with 'All other Items'.
&/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
4/ Including gaxments.
4/  Amortization and intcrest payments (excluding IW transactions) as a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1978)
1/
Loan or                                                                                                  IUS$ Million-
Credit No.           Year      Borrower                       Purpose                                  (Net of Cancellation)
Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                                                     1,089.2
50 Credits fully disbursed                                                                                 2,604.6
614-IN               1969       India          Tarai Seeds                                        13.0       --           1.6
250-IN               1971       India          Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit                      --       35.0         0.1
267-1N               1971       India          Wheat Storage                                       --        5.0          3.4
294-IN               1972       India          Bihar Agricultural Markets                          --       14.0        10.1
312-IN               1972       India          Population                                          --       21.2         6.8
342-IN               1972       India         Education                                            --       12.0         9.9
356-IN               1972       India          IDBI                                                --       25.0        10.9
377-IN               1973       India         Power Transmission III                               --       85.0          3.7
378-IN               1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                          --        8.0          7.0
902-IN               1973       ICICI          Industry DFC X                                     67.5       --           5.8
390-IN               1973       India          Bombay Water Supply                                 --       55.0        32.0
403-IN               1973       India          Telecommunications V                                --       80.0          3.5
427-IN               1973       India          Calcutta Urban Development                          --       35.0         11.7
440-IN               1973       India          Bihar Agricultural Credit                           --       32.0         16.6
456-IN               1974       India          NP Apple Processing & Marketing                     --       13.0          9.9
481-IN               1974       India          Trombay IV                                          --       50.0        14.3
1011-IN               1974       India          Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                            52.0       --          36.1
482-IN               1974       India          Karnataka Dairy                                     --       30.0         26.1
502-IN               1974       India          Rajasthan Canal CAD                                 --       83.0        53.8
520-IN               1974       India          Sindri Fertilizer                                   --       91.0        21.3
521-IN               1974       India          Rajasthan Dairy                                     --       27.7        27.1
522-IN               1974       India          Madhya Pradesh Dairy                                --       16.4         15.6
126-IN               1975       India          Drought Prone Areas                                 --       35.0        25.0
1079-IN               1975       IFFCO          IFFCO Fertilizer                                  109.0       --          71.8
1097-IN               1975       ICICI          Industry DFC XI                                   100.0       --          31.3
532-IN               1975       India          Godavari Barrage Irrigation                         --       45.0        25.6
541-IN               1975       India          West Bengal Agricultural Development                --       34.0         27.0
562-IN               1975       India          Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                        --       24.0         19.1
572-IN               1975       India          Rural Electrification                               --       57.0        49.9
582-IN               1975       India          Railways XIII                                       --      110.0        21.4
585-IN               1975       India          Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                          --       40.0         38.3
598-IN               1975       India          Fertilizer Industry                                 --      105.0         93.5
604-IN               1976       India          Power Transmission IV                               --      150.0       149.8
609-IN               1976       India          Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                        --        4.0          3.8
610-IN               1976       India          Integrated Cotton Development                       --       18.0         18.0
616-IN               1976       India          Industrial Imports XI                               --      200.0          5.0
1251-IN(TW)           1976       India          Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                         145.0       --         145.0
1260-IN               1976       India          IDBI II                                            40.0                   38.0
1273-IN               1976       India          National Seed                                      25.0       --          25.0
1313-IN               1976       India          Telecommunications VI                              80.0       --          40.6
1335-IN               1976       BMRDA          Bombay Urban Transport                             25.0       --          23.5
680-IN               1977       India          Kerala Agricultural Development                     --       30.0         30.0
682-IN               1977       India          Orissa Agricultural Development                     --       20.0         20.0
685-IN               1977       India          Singrauli Thermal Power                             --      150.0        150.0
687-IN               1977       India          Madras Urban Development                            --       24.0         24.0
695-I;I              1977       India          Gujarat Fisheries                                   --        4.0          4.0
1394-IN(TW)           1977       India          Gujarat Fisheries                                  14.0       --          14.0
690-IN               1977       India          West Bengal Agricultural Development                --       12.0         12.0
712-IN               1977       India          Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development             --       10.0         10.0
715-IN               1977       India          Second ARDC Credit                                  --      200.0       200.0
720-IN               1977       India          Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                           --       23.0         23.0
728-IN               1977       India          Assam Agricultural Development                      --        8.0          8.0
1473-IN               1977       India          Bombay High Offshore Development                  150.0        --        150.0
736-IN               1977       India          Maharashtra Irrigation                              --       70.0         70.0
* 737-IN               1977       India          Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                    --       13.0         13.0
740-IN               1977       India          Orissa Irrigation                                   --       58.0         58.0
1475-IN               1977       ICICI          Industry DFC XII                                   80.0        --         79.5
* 747-IN               1978        India         Second Foodgrain Storage                             --     107.0        107.0
* 756-IN               1978        India         Second Calcutta Urban Development                   --        87.0        87.0
* 761-IN               1978        India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research             --         8.0         8.0
*1511-IN               1978        IDBI           IDBI Joint/Public Sector                           25.0       --         25.0
Total                                                                    2,014.7  4,934.0
of which has been repaid                                                  846.6      34.5
Total now outstanding                                                     1,168.1  4,899.5
Amount Sold                                 133.2
of which has been repaid                  111.5                            21.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                           1,146.4  4,899.5
Total undisbursed  (excluding *)                                            662.1  1,369.2
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                                    March  1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                               Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                              Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1       3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                           6.6        -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                               6.0      1.6        7.6
Repaid                           13.8        -        13.8
Cancelled                         6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                         23.6       6.5      30.1
Undisbursed                       5.3        -        5.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Gener'-!ly, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,031
million as of January 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
69% and 88% of total loan amounts, respectively, as of January 31, 1978, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit No. 440 provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 units of tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than esti-
mated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared
with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by one year
to June 30, 1978, and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
Bihar. The physical targets should be achieved by revised closing date and
disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million cred&t of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The US$16.0 million project (Credit 267), with co-financing arrange-
ments with Sweden, finances (i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage
and handling facilities, (ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain
Storage Study. The government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible
for the storage construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag warehouses
envisaged under the project as revised were completed and became operational
in 1975. The construction of five grain silos is progressing satisfactorily
and expected to be completed by September 30, 1978. The training component
is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study was completed in
October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal for the Second
Grain Storage Project which was appraised in February/March 1977 and approved
by the Board on November 15, 1977.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project provides US$13.0 million to promote the development
of apple processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading
and packing centers, cold storage facilities, a juice processing plant, road
improvements and cableways. The project also includes on-farm cold storage
and oak mushroom production. The main executing agency is the Himachal
Pradesh Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
The project encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical prob-
lems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficul-
ties. Land is expected to be acquired for all packing and grading sites
by early 1978. The Project Preparation Report for the juice processing
plant has been completed and found satisfactory, and tenders on the equip-
ment are being called. The road improvement programme is progressing
satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites are also expected to be completed shortly. As a
result of the significant improvement in project implementation during the
past year, disbursements have recently gathered momentum.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1978, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered;
for Power Transmission IV, bids for all equipment have been invited and
most orders have been placed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way.  Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity.  The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1'979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of wholesale
markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the Bihar
project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training of the
Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMG) staff and evaluation of the
project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for all of
the 50 project markets, but commencement of implementation is being delayed
for some of the markets pending land acquisi-tion. Appraisals and loan sanc-
tions had been completed for 13 and were in progress for 18 markets. Farmers
and traders served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more effi-
cient marketing activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress
under the Karnataka project is improving. As of August 1977, when the project
was last reviewed appraisals for 36 of the 393 project market yard plans had
been completed by participating banks and 25 of these 36 approved by ARDC.
Construction is in progress at 33 markets. 'In an attempt to accelerate project
progress, more liberal lending terms have been provided to APMCs and Market
Intermediaries (MIs) for construction of shop-cum-godowns. The project is
expected to be completed by the closing date (December 1979) and to achieve
its major objectives of making farm produce marketing more efficient and
improving farmers' terms of trade.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1551  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 25% of the loan amount
had been committed by mid-March 1978.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
major project components and an unforeseen addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and
it is forecast that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply
of additional water in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980 two years
later than originally forecasted. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a half of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 10, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these project, following considerable increases in
project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to
accommodate the project to funding available. It is now expected to be
substantially completed by March 1979. Agreements have been reached on
consultants services and technical assistance, as provided for under the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly
with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery
of considerable time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$34.0 million over four years mainly for
minor irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro serv-
ice centers, and support of related government services. Although disburse-
ments have been slower than anticipated there has been a considerable improve-
ment in project organization and administration during the past six months
and disbursements are expected to improve considerably during the next twelve



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
months. The physical progress of shallow tubewells, and of deep tubewells
for the Minor Irrigation Corporation is satisfactory. IDA, GOWB and ARDC
are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such as organizational
problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service centers; and
finalization of designs for water distribution systems and irrigation
schemes. Positive results, particularly for the water distribution systems
are expected shortly.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 16, 1978 (expected);  Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6,
1978 (expected); Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Pro-
ject actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of April 1977, orders
had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders
had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. The contract for the feasibility
study has been awarded.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project finances equipment and civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and increased cotton produc-
tion in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton
ginneries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Project management and coordination were established
and the cotton production program has been pursued energetically. Implementa-
tion of the research and industrial components has started.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project supports seed industry expansion in the public and
private sectors; improvements in seed quality control; strengthening of
breeding and seed technology research; and development of a reserve stock
scheme. Institutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly
at the state level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project imple-
mentation, however, slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to
organizational problems. Project progress is now being made since approval
of the project by the new Government in September 1977 and is anticipated
to gain further momentum as GOI is about to appoint the two top officers
of the National Seeds Corporation.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed somewhat because of delays in pro-
curement action. However, contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single
deck and 175 double deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have
been delivered. Bids for an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil
works contracts have been awarded for 8 to 15 bus facilities, and 13 of about
traffic engineering schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some BMC
traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps are



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, adminis-
tration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Devel-
opment Authority. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corp-
oration and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have selec-
ted consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management assist-
ance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Initial project implementation works, principally site acquisi-
tion, construction of access roads, temporary buildings, and design works
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and are expected to be commissioned
by May 1978. Bids for well and processing platforms at Bassein have been
received and are under review.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Date Sheet
Section I    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
2 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Karnataka, Irrigation Department;
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
March 1977/September 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
July 1978
Section II   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III Special Conditions
1.   Karnataka to complete the Upper Krishna Scheme as
early as is technically and financially feasible
(para 43).
2.   Karnataka to make arrangements for a systematic
assessment and collection of the betterment levy
in the area covered by the project (para 56).



ANNEX III
Page 2
3.   Conditions for disbursement of on-farm works
component:
(a) financial arrangements between GOI and
ARDC for relending US$7.0 million to
ARDC (para 49);
(b) receipt by the Association of a detailed
training program (para 49); and
(c) receipt by the Association of a satisfactory
banking plan (para 49).



IBRD 13043R
'78,,,  '->                                 7b.                                            78'                               MARCH 1978
(r ')  -             .URXmt n fcontrol
CHINA                                                         INDIA
BHUTAN
_ _Ss  g                          KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
tR  'V- J r     .                                   Project Location
IND  A              URMA
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                       1 8 'f o  N   \  >  v    o   80  160
NfsRI LANKA.                       ShlprJ                                               I
V'          -'-ini.'n,iionol                                                                                             N
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
o \to             <      -    '+   +q 1F~~~~~~~~Gulbargr: 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K  B             RI #SHNA SCHEMEt       
/  .     t     s s cpr w r Project Area
H~~ o~~g~ Baoge~~~PIo~e  ~~, UpperKrishna Scheme
A n t ,                                         Irrigation Area (Planned)
G                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigation Area (Existing)
)        ~     11Rivers, Dams and Weirs
Irrigation Canals (Planned)
Na~~~~~oya~~~~~! D ~~~~Irrigation Canals (Existing)                    16'-
Maior River Basin Boundaries
Minor River Basin Boundaries
MAaior Roads
Broad Goiuge Railroads
TUfVG 6~% r                                                Narrow Gauge Railroads
5dw    6J'-   Hary          76~~~T      S      State Headquarters
*     District Headquarters
j      Nw  <  /   g I   /   \   -  - State Boundaries
-14'        t\                   8higit                    t         CX          , J 1                                                   14o2
>              w             , !          X Se                                                                     14-
K9r00 '                 e   f - 
Mangalore          .       Hassan                                                        r 8A NGA7  78'
\ 1 +K   ~~~~~   ,       1( 1~~~SI1,VA RAXI   
Z \ t ~~~~ _ _) QW J A~~~~~
-z_                               4                S      -    
@    ~~' '  4  CozmooZore           78                ol ecceptEdse o~~~~~f -uh b-ud--e



