Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FL      o0                y
Report No. 1835a-IN
INDIA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 15, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =     Rupees (Rs) 8.60 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                     =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              3   -         2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm )  =           810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic                           3
feet (TMC)               =         28.32 Mm
I cubic foot per second                          3
(cusec)                  =         0.0283m /s
1 liter per hectare (1/ha)    =           14 ft /1,000 ac
I ton                           =         1,000 kilograms (kg)
2,205 pounds
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate.  Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.60.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ......................................1............ 
Agriculture  in India  ......              .........................                  1
Irrigation  in India  .............................................                   2
Agriculture  and  Irrigation  in Karnataka  ............                              2
Project  Formulation  .......... . . . .   ...............................            4
II.   THE PROJECT AREAS                      .......................................                4
A.    Upper  Krishna  Scheme  ...............................                                4
General  ...................................................                          4
Climate            ............................................                       5
Topography  .............................             .................               5
soils  ....................................................                           5
Farm Size  and Land Tenure                  ..........................                6
Present Agricultural   Situation  .....................                               7
Agricultural  Supporting  Services  ...................                               8
Agricultural  Inputs  . .....................  ..   .......                           9
Agricultural  Credit  ................................                                9
Marketing,  Processing  and  Storage  .....0.                   ............        10
Transportation. ..................-                                  ....           11
B.    Ghataprabha and Malaprabha  Schemes      ...     oooo ......                          11
Ghataprabha  Scheme  .... o                  ......-.......-.....     .....          11
Malaprabha  Scheme   _-.. .         .     . ..     ... .o . . . . . .... . ..        11
III.  THE PROJECT  o ....................... o - -..... oo.......oo .... o..... o.                 12
Main Project  Features  . .            -.. . o.  - . . ... ooo .... ....            12
Almatti and Narayanpur Dams  ... o ..... ...........  --                            14
Water  Supply,  Demand  and Quality                   ..........       .            16
Major  Irrigation,  Drainage  and Road  Systems  ...    ....                        16
Field  Channels  and On-farm Works  ...................                   .         20
Agricultural  Development  and Training  .,ooo...... ...                            22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited India
in September 1977, comprised of Messrs. C.J.R. Bridge, P. Ljung, W.A. van
Tuijl and Ms. R. Deen (Bank); Messrs. A. Gibbs, A. Plummer and P. Borrowman
(Consultants) and J.P. Baudelaire (FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Implementation Schedule ............................                22
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ................        ..        23
Cost Estimates ...............................................      24
Financing         ..........................................        24
Procurement ...... ..................................               26
Disbursements .        ......................................       27
Account and Audits   .............. ..................              28
Environmental Effects of the Project             .....              28
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT             .................                 28
General.                           . .                              28
Irrigation Department          .         ..                         28
Command Area Development Authority (CADA) .                         29
Field Channels and On-farm Works   .               .30
Agricultural Supporting Services .            ..                    31
Operation and Maintenance   .                 .32
V.   PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY                        33
Agricultural Production.....                                        33
Financial Prices                  ....... 35
Farm Incomes ...                         ........    36
Cost Recovery                   ....... 37
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.                     .    .    .        39
General                     ...39
Employment Effects                 ....39
Income Effects    . ........                                       40
Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis           ....             40
Economic Evaluation of UKS...                                      43
Evaluation of Design Alternatives for UKS    ....                  43
Economic Evaluation of Field Channels and
On-Farm Development in Ghataprabha and
Malaprabha                      ....44
Sensitivity Analyses and Project Risk               ...            45
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS           .     .........          46



iii
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1   Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1       Climatological Factors Relating to Estimation of Crop Water
Requirements (at Raichur)
T-2       Salient Features of Almatti and Narayanpur Dams
T-3       Summary of Irrigation Water Requirements
T-4       Cost Estimates
T-5       Equipment and Services for Implementation, Operation and
Maintenance and Project Monitoring (Cost Estimates)
T-6       Cost Estimates of CADA Organization
T-7       Cost Estimates of Agricultural Supporting Services
T-8       Schedule of Expenditures
T-9       Proposed Allocation of the Credit
T-10      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T-11      Annual Expenditure Schedule for UKS
T-12      Organizational Requirements
T-13      Financial Crop Budget at Full Development
T-14      Crop Input Requirements
T-15      Farm Budget for 1.5 ha Farm
T-16      Farm Budget for 4.0 ha Farm
T-17      Farm Budget for 10.0 ha Farm
T-18      Cost Recovery
T-19      Estimates of Project Rent
T-20      Schedule of Critical Events
C-1       Implementation Schedule for Upper Krishna Scheme
C-2       Organization Chart:  Upper Krishna Scheme Construction in 1980/81
C-3       Organization Chart:  Command Area Development 1981/82
C-4       Organization Chart:  Operation and Maintenance of Upper Krishna Scheme
Annex 2   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
List of Maps
IBRD 13043R Project Location
IBRD 13044R Project Area
IBRD 13199 Typical Outlet Command Layout






INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Karnataka, located in the southern part of India, has one of the
lowest levels of irrigation in India. Large parts of the State are located
in the drought prone rain shadow of the Western Ghats characterized by low
and unreliable rainfall. As irrigation is essential to improve agricultural
productivity, the Government of Karnataka (GOK) is giving high priority to the
development of surface water resources, particularly in drought prone areas
of the State. Since the late 1940s, GOK has systematically developed the
Upper Krishna Basin and so far developed 350,000 ha out of a potential of
1.6-2.0 M ha. In accordance with its irrigation development policy and to
expedite exploitation of the Basin, GOK, with assistance from the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme, prepared and submitted to IDA in March 1977,
a request for assistance in financing the Upper Krishna Scheme (UKS).
Agriculture in India
1.02      India covers some 3.27 M km  of which 49% is cultivable and about
11% irrigated. India's population of about 630 M is growing at an annual
rate of 2.3%. National income has grown at nearly 4% per annum since 1950,
and the per capita GNP reached US$150 in 1975. Although average per capita
income has increased, in general there has been little change in the living
standards of the vast masses of urban and rural poor, which--conservatively
measured--consist of some 250 M people with incomes below the poverty line
of US$70 per capita per year. Thus, the Government of India's (GOI's) devel-
opment plans give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment,
especially in rural areas.
1.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 45% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and pro-
vides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade, GOI
development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain
production by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
and improved seed varieties. In support of this, GOI has modernized and ex-
panded its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated the development
of irrigation.
1.04      Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the green
revolution in some areas--primarily the wheat growing northwestern states--
the annual overall growth rate in foodgrain production over the last 15 years
has been only about 2.3% or approximately equal to the population growth.
Furthermore, India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the vagaries
of weather, and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% from one year
to another. Major factors in reducing this dependence would be the expansion
of irrigation and the improvement of existing irrigation facilities.



-2-
Irrigation in India
1.05      Up to 1964/65, irrigated area increased at a rate of only about 2.1%
per year, of which approximately two-thirds was from surface water resources
and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development.
At present, the irrigated area is 45 M ha about three-fifths of which is
surface irrigated and two-fifths groundwater irrigated.
1.06      The pace of surface water development remained relatively constant
at about 0.5 M ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70 -
1973/74). During this period, the physical plan targets set by GOI for a
more rapid development of surface irrigation were not fulfilled. A major
problem was the continuing pressure in the States to start a large number of
projects, which, given the limited financial resources resulted in long con-
struction periods for all projects and, thus, delayed benefits. However, in
recent years, the budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and Indian author-
ities have increased their efforts to complete ongoing projects. As a result,
the irrigation potential created in 1976/77 was 1.1 M ha or about twice what
was achieved in any single year before the start of the fifth Plan in 1974/75.
1.07      In many completed projects, actual utilization is significantly
less than irrigation potential. Consequently, GOI and the State Governments
emphasize "command area development" (CAD), which involves public investments
in associated infrastructure (drainage, roads, markets, agricultural extension
and research) to enable a more rapid agricultural development as well as
private investments to improve water use efficiency at the farm level (water
course lining, field channels and drains, land shaping and leveling).
Agriculture and Irrigation in Karnataka
1.08      The land area of Karnataka is some 19 M ha and has an estimated
cultivable area of 12.6 M ha. The State's population is about 30 M. In
1975/76 (a favorable year climatically), the net area sown to crops was
10.3 M ha and the net irrigated area 1.8 M ha. In the same year, gross
foodgrain production reached 7 M tons, of which the main components were rice
(2.3 M tons), sorghum (1.8 M tons) and millet (1.0 M tons). Assuming storage
and other losses and requirements for seeds at 15%, net production was about
6.0 M tons. Foodgrain consumption in that year was of the same order of
magnitude. In dry years, however, food production is substantially less and
given the expected population growth, significant increases in the production
of foodgrains will be necessary in the future.
1.09      Karnataka can be divided into four distinct regions:  (i) a long
narrow coastal belt lying between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea which
receives a high (2,500 mm) and assured rainfall during the southwest monsoon
season; rice is the main crop and coconuts and arecanut are also extensively
grown; (ii) the Western Ghats, a long narrow mountainous area to east of the
coastal belt; rainfall is heavy and assured and main crops grown are rice,
coffee, arecanut and coconut; (iii) the northern plateau, drained by the



Krishna, Bhima and Tungabhadra rivers; receives an average rainfall of 600 mm
or less which is highly variable from year to year and forms the most arid
region of the State; the principal crops are sorghum, pearl millet, ground-
nuts and cotton; (iv) The southern plateau, drained by the Cauvery, Tungabhadra
and Penner rivers; rainfall is again variable and ranges from 500 mm in the
northwest to 760 mm in the west. Much of the irrigation in this area is from
tanks and the principal irrigated crops are rice and sugarcane, with sorghum,
pearl millet, finger millet, castor and pulses as the major rainfed crops.
1.10      At least 50% of the total geographic area is drought prone.  The
drought prone area, of which about 10% is irrigated, supports about 50% of the
population. The total area covered by irrigation in the State is approxi-
mately two million ha with a net area actually irrigated in 1975/76 of
1.8 M ha or some 14% of the cultivable area. In view of the high risk of
drought east of the Ghats, high priority is given to increasing the area irri-
gated in this part of the State. The ultimate potential for irrigation
including groundwater has been assessed at 4.5 M ha, of which the Krishna
basin provides the largest potential contribution of 3.4 M ha. Within the
Krishna basin, the Tungabhadra scheme is nearing completion and the Ghataprabha
and Malaprabha Schemes and UKS are under construction. When fully completed,
these schemes would irrigate some 1.6-2.0 M ha.  At present, 350,000 ha have
been developed.
1.11      The Tungabhadra, Ghataprabha and Malaprabha schemes have encoun-
tered serious problems in realizing the potential created by the irrigation
infrastructure. In the past, land development, i.e. construction of field
channels and landshaping inside an outlet command, was left to the farmers.
This was not successful as the farmers did not have the expertise to under-
take this type of work and were not sufficiently motivated. To overcome these
problems and to ensure rapid utilization of irrigation potential created, GOK
constituted in 1974 Command Area Development Authorities (CADAs) for the
Tungabhadra, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha and Cauvery Basin Projects, and, in
September 1977, for UKS. The CADAs are responsible for organizing the con-
struction of field irrigation channels down to the level of individual
holdings, and also on-farm development, in particular land shaping. The
Irrigation Department (ID) of PWD was delegated the responsibility of con-
struction of field channels and the Agriculture Department (AD) for on-farm
development. However, land development continued to be slow. The basic
problem was that the CADAs were unable to ensure effective coordination bet-
ween the ID, AD and the other agencies with the result that the design and
construction of land development works were unsatisfactory. Contributing to
the problem was the fact that an adequate number of ID and AD staff trained
in design and execution of land development works were not available and GOK
did not have the proper mechanism for coordination of the various agencies
engaged on large scale construction operations. Additionally, the provisions
of the Land Improvement Act making it compulsory for farmers on irrigation
schemes to undertake land development, were not applied, and there were no
arrangements for financing the on-farm works for farmers ineligible for
institutional credit. Up to now, therefore, land development has continued
to be haphazard and of the 200,000 ha of potential irrigation created in the
Malaprabha and Ghataprabha schemes, only a small area has so far been pro-
vided with field channels and land shaping through the CADAs. Other



4 -
shortcomings in these schemes are the lack of adequate drainage and access
roads. Under the project described in this report, steps would be taken to
correct the deficiencies of the CADA's (see para 1.13 and Chapter IV).
Project Formulation
1.12      UKS is planned to have a gross command area of 650,000 ha and a
cultivable command area (CCA) of 425,000 ha. Construction of UKS started
in 1957/58. However, progress was minimal until after 1973/74 when the
interstate disputes over the sharing of the Krishna River water were re-
solved and Karnataka's water rights established. The Narayanpur and
Almatti dams and the Narayanpur Left Bank Canal (LBC) are now under con-
struction. The UKS is designed to spread the water supply available for
the project thinly over the entire command area in order to benefit the
maximum number of people. To minimize seepage and operational losses in
the extensive distribution system up to the farm outlet, improved technical
standards have been adopted for the design of the entire canal system and
canals would be fully lined.
1.13      Special measures would be undertaken to avoid delays that have
occurred previously in the execution of land development works. These mea-
sures would include: (i) the construction of field channels, field drains and
on-farm works by an Engineering Wing of CADA (para. 4.13); (ii) training of
staff in a Land Development Training Center (para. 3.49); (iii) compulsory
land development on an outlet command basis (para. 4.12); (iv) the setting up
of a Special Loan Account (SLA) to finance ineligible and unwilling farmers
(para. 3.58); and (v) construction of field channels and drains by GOK from
its development budget and not through institutional credit (para. 3.55).
Additional improvements over past practices would include (i) improvement of
major drainage channels (para. 3.30), and (ii) construction of village roads
(para 3.32) and improvement of farm access (para. 3.43).
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Upper Krishna Scheme
General
2.01      The UKS is located in the drought prone northeastern part of
Karnataka about 450 km north of Bangalore in the districts of Gulbarga and
Bijapur (Map No. 13043R). It occupies a triangular area lying between the
Krishna and Bhima rivers and has a gross command area of 650,000 ha and a
cultivable command area (CCA) of 425,000 ha. Two dams are presently under
construction, the Almatti storage dam (20% complete) and the Narayanpur
diversion dam (35% complete). The Narayanpur Left Bank Canal (LBC), taking
water from the Narayanpur reservoir, would bring 409,000 ha under gravity
CCA. The canal would be 76 km long; its first 36 km are presently under
construction. The remaining 16,000 ha of the CCA, situated between Almatti
and Narayanpur dams, would be irrigated through low lift pumping.



- 5 -
2.02      There are no large towns in the UKS area and vill2ges are widely
dispersed with population densities at a low of about 90/km . The following
estimates of the present population and labor force in UKS are based on
results of the 1971 census:
Total population                       592,000
Total labor force                      213,000
Agricultural labor force               170,000
Cultivators                          (85,000)
Landless laborers                    (85,000)
Non-agricultural labor force            42,600
Farm labor supply (man-days)
Annual                             51.1 M
Monthly                             4.3 M
Climate
2.03     The scheme area has a semi-arid monsoon climate, with an average
rainfall of about 650 mm. The monsoon usually arrives in early June and
lasts until early October. About 77% of annual rainfall occurs during
this period, mostly in the form of torrential showers falling a few days
each month. Variations in timeliness and amounts of rainfall are large and
the area is the driest and most drought-prone part of the State. The winter
season (November to February) is relatively cool and dry with December being
the coldest month at a mean temperature of 23°C.  The summer (March to May)
is hot with mean daily temperatures of 33 0C in May (Annex 1, TI).
Topography
2.04      Granites and gneisses predominate in the southern part of the scheme
area where they out-crop as steep rocky hills, and occupy a considerable area
especially close to the head reaches of the main canal; the lower slopes (2-5%)
merge towards the Krishna River into a gently undulating plain with slopes of
1% - 2%. The northeastern parts of the area are occupied by low ridges of
limestones and calcareous shales and sandstones. Here, the topography is
gently undulating with slopes of 1% - 3% and intersected at intervals by
narrow valleys. The northwestern area has a gently undulating topography,
with wide ridges alternating with wide valleys. Slopes vary from nearly flat
to about 5%.
Soils
2.05     The soils of UKS are typical of the semi-arid areas of central India
and a semi-detailed soil survey has been completed. Black expansive heavy
clay soils cover 86% of the area and red soils the remainder. Due to the
varied nature of the parent material, wide variations in soil types are
found. These can be grouped into three main types:
(i) Deep black cotton (BC) soils (soil depth 80-120 cm) occupy
57% of the area. These dark-brown to black montmoril-
lonitic clays (or vertisols) are derived from basalt,
limestone, granite and calcareous shale and sandstone.



- 6 -
They have poor internal drainage and possess low hydraulic
conductivity. Permeability is very slow and the soils
have a propensity to swell and shrink; however, when dry,
the soils develop two to five inches wide cracks and this
facilitates infiltration of rain and irrigation water into
the root zone. After adequate rainfall, available soil
moisture can be up to 250 mm per meter soil depth and this
can support a post-monsoon rabi crop (e.g. wheat, sorghum,
cotton or safflower). The soils are usually rich in bases
including potassium, calcium and magnesium, have little
organic matter and are deficient in nitrogen, phosphorus
and sometimes zinc.
(ii)  Shallow to moderately deep and sandy clays (30-50 cm)
occupy 29% of the area. These are black-brown to black and
are principally derived from basalts. They are usually
cropped during the kharif season and are occasionally
followed by a catch crop of pulses or oil seeds grown on
residual moisture.
(iii) Red sandy loams (70-90 cm) occupy about 14% of the area.
They are almost entirely derived from granite and are low
in nitrogen, phosphorous and sometimes zinc. The potassium
level is usually medium to high. They have a relatively
low waterholding capacity and are cropped in the kharif
season, principally with pearl millet and groundnuts.
2.06      In general, the soils present no limitations for irrigated cropping
and are suitable for a wide range of crops. The soils are underlain by the
"Deccan trap" (relatively permeable formations) which provides for a degree
of sub-surface drainage. With adequate surface drainage no serious water-
logging or salinity problems are foreseen.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.07      Due to low rainfall, the area is thinly populated and farms are
generally large.  The average farm size is 5.9 ha and the median size 4.0 ha.
Farms below 4.0 ha account for only about one-sixth of the land whilst one-
sixth of the farms (those above 10 ha) account for nearly half the land. The
distribution in size of farms is based upon the weighted average for the
Gulbarga and Bijapur districts.



- 7-
Frequency                 Cumulative
Distribution              Distribution
Size Class        % of                     % of
(ha)         Holdings   % of Area   Holdings   % of Area
0-1              11.1        1.1         11.1          1.1
1-2              15.1        3.8         26.2          4.9
2-3              13.3        5.5         39.5         10.4
3-4              11.0        6.4         50.5         16.8
4-5               8.6        6.5         59.1         23.3
5-10             24.0       28.4         83.1         51.7
10-20             13.2       30.1         96.3         81.8
over 20            3.7       18.2        100.0        100.0
Total             100        100
2.08      Some 90% of all holdings are owner operated; of the remainder,
6% are farmed by owners who rent additional land, and 4% are wholly rented
holdings.
2.09      The land ceiling in Karnataka for areas irrigated from a Govern-
ment source is 10 to 12 ha and for non-irrigated land it is 21.25 ha per
family. For each member of the family in excess of five, the ceiling is
increased by 20% up to a maximum of 100% where there are ten or more family
members.
Present Agricultural Situation
2.10      With the exception of small areas irrigated from dugwells and tanks,
agriculture in UKS is rainfed. Overall cropping intensity is about 85% with
58% cropped in the rabi season and 27% in kharif. On clay soils, which con-
stitute the majority of the area, land is usually fallowed during the kharif
and planted in rabi (October through January). On these heavy soils, the rate
of build-up of a moisture reserve in the soil profile is slow and during the
early part of the kharif season (during which 77% of the mean annual rainfall
occurs), the intervals between effective rains are often prolonged and crop
failures can occur. Fallowing thus avoids uncertain returns. On lighter
soils, with higher infiltration rates and low moisture retaining capacities,
kharif is the main cropping season. Even under favorable rainfall, some
10-15% of the cultivable area is left fallow, and in years of low rainfall,
the area uncropped is much greater. Average crop yields are low, reflecting
in part the unpredictability of rainfall and its distribution. Land prep-
aration is by ox-plow and harrow. In general, there is one pair of bullocks
to every 10 ha cropped.



-8-
2.11      Present cropping patterns and yields are summarized below:
Season         Crop          Cropping Intensity        Present Average Yield
%                       tons/ha
Kharif       Sorghum                  3                         0.50
Pearl Millet            7                         0.40
Groundnut               7                         0.40
Pulses                  7                         0.25
Sesamum                 2                         0.25
Minor Food Crops        1                          0.35
27%
Rabi         Sorghum                 28                         0.45
Wheat                   2                         0.35
Gram                    1                         0.30
Safflower               1                         0.25
Cotton                 26                         0.25
Total Cropping
Intensity            85%
2.12      Sorghum, the main foodgrain, is mainly grown as a rabi crop on
heavy soils, and to a lesser extent in kharif, on lighter soils, whereas pearl
millet, pulses (pigeon pea), and groundnut are grown almost exclusively on
light soils in kharif. Cotton (a short stapled hirsutum type of 160-200 day
maturation) is the main commercial crop, sown in September - October on deep
clay soils, as are gram (chickpea), wheat and safflower. Seeds of improved
varieties of all crops are available, though these are not generally planted.
Use of fertilizer and insecticides is minimal.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.13      Agricultural Research.  The University of Agricultural Sciences
(UAS), with campuses at Bangalore and Dharwar, is responsible for agricultural
research. Dharwar is about 250 km from UKS. Regional research stations for
irrigated agriculture are located at Dharwar and Raichur in the Tungabhadra
scheme. There is also a small sub-station at Arabhavi in the Ghataprabha
scheme. Various All-India Coordinated Research Projects, sponsored by the
Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR), are conducted at these
regional stations and include research on the crops commonly grown in the
region. Some of the research results are applicable to the conditions of
deep black soils in UKS but no research has been done on irrigated farming
on either the red soils or the shallow black soils in northern Karnataka.
Furthermore, no research is being carried out in UKS.
2.14      Agricultural Extension Services.  Agricultural extension is the
responsibility of the State Department of Agriculture, but present services
are inadequate, with one agricultural graduate to every 120-150,000 ha of
farm land. Village Level Workers, found at the lowest administrative level



-9-
of the Block, operate in areas covering about 1,000 farmers, are under the
direct administrative control of the Block Development Officer and are
responsible for a wide range of developmental, administrative and regulatory
functions, in addition to agriculture. There is also a lack of adequate
housing near their area of work, and a lack of transport. This has resulted
in limited farm contacts and inadequate impact on yields.
Agricultural Inputs
2.15      There is a well organized system for distribution and sale of
chemical fertilizers and pesticides throughout the State. In UKS, however,
the present use of inputs is minimal; practically no fertilizer is used though
farm yard manure is applied to the extent that it is available. Similarly,
pest control measures are seldom practiced though some farmers may spray their
cotton. Procurement and distribution is organized by the Karnataka State
Cooperative Marketing Federation, through primary (or Taluk) Cooperative
Marketing Societies. These societies are usually located in regulated markets
where they have offices and storage facilities. Primary agricultural credit
cooperative societies, functioning at village level, are also members of
marketing societies from which they obtain fertilizers, pesticides and seeds
for sale and distribution to farmer members. Other outlets are the AD and
private dealers who obtain their requirements directly from the main commer-
cial suppliers and pesticide formulators. At present, many farmers retain
their own seed or buy or exchange seed with their neighbors. The AD operates
three small seed farms in the area for the production of improved varieties.
Agricultural Credit
2.16      Agricultural credit in Karnataka is provided by a variety of sources
including cooperative, land development (LDBs), and commercial banks (CBs).
Cooperative banks provide short (up to one year) and medium- (one to five
years) term credit and LDBs provide only long-term (up to 15 years) credit.
CBs provide all three types of credit. At present, most credit comes from
institutional sources and nearly 60% of this is provided by the cooperative
movement. The cooperative credit structure in UKS is weak, especially in
relation to the provision of short-term production credit.
2.17      Cooperative Banks.  These are organized on a three tier basis with
the Karnataka State Bank (Apex Bank) at state level, central cooperative banks
at district level and primary agricultural cooperative credit societies at
farmer level. In 1973, there were 237 primary societies in UKS with about 40%
of all farmers as members. These village societies are the principal source
of agricultural credit to farmers. Short-term advances are largely crop pro-
duction loans, bearing interest rates between 12.5% and 13.5% per annum.
Medium-term advances, which bear the same interest rates, finance mainly
pumpsets for irrigation and the sinking or deepening of wells.
2.18      Land Development Banks.  The LDBs are organized on a two tier system
with the State Land Development Bank (SLDB) located in Bangalore and the
primary land development banks (PLDBs) in each taluk. To secure a normal loan
through the PLDB, farmers are required to hold shares equal to 5% of the loan



- 10 -
amount, but for special development schemes a further down payment of 15% of
the loan amount is necessary. Farmers pay 10.5% - 11% per annum interest on
ordinary loans and 11% on special scheme loans. The conditions that apply to
CADA projects are discussed further in paras 3.57-3.58. The PLDB's have a
good loan recovery record, for example, a study of the Shorapur PLDB indicates
that in view of its recovery record, it may become eligible for unrestricted
finance by the time the UKS is fully implemented.
2.19      Commercial Banks.  By the end of 1974, there were 1,691 branches
of such banks in the State of Karnataka, and of these 732 were in rural and
473 in semi-rural areas. Under the Lead Bank scheme, one of the CBs is assigned
responsibility for servicing rural areas that are not adequately served; it
arranges for the establishment of branch banks in such areas, and guides and
coordinates the activities of the new branches. The 19 Districts of the State
have been allotted to five lead banks with the Syndicate Bank of India being
alloted Gulbarga district. The present network of CBs in UKS is insufficient
to meet the future needs of the project.
2.20      Although CBs can provide short-, medium- and long-term credit, most
of their activities in agriculture have involved only short-term production
credit with only little lending for the medium-term. Commercial credit banks
have had little involvement in long-term financing of land development.
Interest rates vary among the banks and range from 11.5% - 14.5% per annum
for small farmers, to 14.5% - 16.5% for larger farmers.
Marketing, Processing and Storage
2.21      The sale of agricultural produce in Karnataka is governed by the
Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act 1966. Trade is controlled
by the State Marketing Department (SMD) through local Agricultural Produce
Marketing Committees (APMCs). This system of control is well established and
generally works well, but lack of infrastructure is a serious constraint which
works against the interest of farmers. Two APMCs operate in the project area
with headquarters at Shorapur and Shahapur. Development and expansion of
marketing in Karnataka is being assisted by an ongoing IDA credit 1/ but none
of the 25 schemes sanctioned to date affect the project area. Less than 10%
of the total production of sorghum and 15% of rice finds its way into orga-
nized markets. The balance is used for family consumption, payment of hired
labor and for barter. 2/ Virtually 100% of all sales are through APMCs.
Purchase of grain by the Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Corporation is
generally confined to paddy and sorghum.
2.22      Processing facilities are provided by the private sector and are
adequate for current needs. In 1975, there were three cotton ginning mills
and two groundnut oil mills in the area. Existing storage in and adjacent to
1/   Credit No. 378-IN (US$8.0 M credit of May 9, 1973).
--2/ Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation, Government of India; Agricultural Situation, December 1976.
Table 1, page 521.



- 11 -
the project area amounts to some 16,000 tons divided between primary agricul-
tural credit societies, taluk cooperative marketing societies and regulated
markets and is considered to be adequate for present needs.
Transportation
2.23      The Upper Krishna area is served by a fairly good network of Public
Works Department (PWD) roads linking main centers and national and state high-
ways. A National Highway runs north/south to the west of UKS and the broad
gauge Bombay/Madras main line railway also runs north/south about 25 km to the
east. Village roads, which are the responsibility of local authorities, are
mostly poorly designed and inadequate. Farm transportation to market is
mainly by bullock cart while the onward movement from there is predominantly
by truck.
B. Ghataprabha and Malaprabha Schemes
Ghataprabha Scheme
2.24      The irrigation potential created is 135,000 ha, out of a total
potential of 314,000 ha. Irrigation began as early as 1877 with the construc-
tion of the Dhupdal Weir. Extension of the irrigated area followed the
construction of the Hidkal Dam and reservoir, now nearing completion. The
present project began to provide kharif service in 1958. Distribution systems
are under construction; the annual rate of implementation reached 26,000 ha in
1975/76. The topography of the project area is gently rolling; about half has
slopes of less than 1%, and the remainder from 1-2%. Soils vary from dark
reddish-brown sandy loams to black clay loams, underlain by semi-pervious
murrum. The clays exhibit moderate to heavy cracking. Salinity is found in
small areas of restricted drainage.
2.25      Average annual rainfall is approximately 500 mm per year but is
highly variable. In view of water supply limitations, the system is designed
to supply irrigation water to half of the area in the kharif season and the
other half during the rabi season. The light red soils are designated kharif
areas and the heavy black soils as rabi areas. In kharif 1976, 58,000 ha were
irrigated and in rabi 1976/77, 47,000 ha: a total of 105,000 ha for the crop
year or 75% of the potential created. In kharif 1977, sorghum occupied 12%
of the irrigated crop area, maize 43%, pearl millet 2%, pulses 3%, groundnuts
11%, cotton 7% and other crops including sugarcane 22%.
Malaprabha Scheme
2.26      The project was started in the early 1960s and will ultimately irri-
gate some 212,000 ha. The storage dam has been completed and approximately
63,000 ha have been brought under command. Some 20,000 ha were provided with
distribution systems in FY1976/77. Slopes in the area are generally flatter
than in Ghataprabha. The area commanded by the left bank canal mainly con-
sists of red soils, generally similar to those in Ghataprabha. The area com-
manded by the right bank canal constitutes about 90% of the total command area



- 12 -
and its soils are BC soils, which present unusual problems in both canal con-
struction and land development. These soils have a high clay content, swell
upon moisture intake, are extremely erodible, and have a low permeability.
Rainfall is about 600 mm but is highly variable. Considerable experience has
been obtained in the construction of canals and land development in these
soils and design standards already developed here will be quite adaptable--
with certain modifications--to UKS conditions.
2.27      The design cropping pattern envisages irrigation for:  (i) in kharif,
one-third of the area with cereals (sorghum and maize), groundnuts and pulses;
(ii) in rabi, one-third of the area with wheat and sorghum, and (iii) one-
third of the area with cotton in both seasons. No paddy or sugarcane is,
at present, permitted. In 1976, 26% of the area brought under command was
planted and irrigated in kharif and 78% in rabi. In kharif 1977, however,
as a result of successful campaigns run by CADA and the AD 58% of the area
was irrigated during kharif.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project would comprise a five year phase of the development of
UKS. Under the project, the pace of development would be accelerated signifi-
cantly in comparison with the performance of the past, and improvements would
be made both in the design and construction standards employed and in the
organizational and administrative arrangements for command area development.
The project would also contain provision for command area development in the
Malaprabha and Ghataprabha schemes. By completion of the project investments
in 1983, about 105,000 ha of the potential UKS cultivable command area of
about 425,000 ha would be irrigated. As discussed in Chapter VI, the economic
benefits from irrigation of these 105,000 ha would justify (an economic return
of 10% is indicated) all investments made in UKS since its inception in 1957,
including those planned for the five year project period. Optimization of
returns on all investments in UKS would be achieved by the development of
irrigation in the full CCA of 425,000 ha, in which case a return of 16% is
indicated. It is the intention of GOI and GOK to complete UKS as promptly
as possible. A period of 15 years, including the five years of the project,
would be required. GOK has confirmed that it has every intention to give
the highest priority to the completion of UKS within 15 years and that it
would make every effort to allocate sufficient funds in its annual budget
proposals for this purpose, see para 3.56.
Main Project Features
3.02      During the five years in which the project would be implemented the
following activities would be undertaken:
A.   Within Upper Krishna Scheme
(i) The completion of Almatti and Narayanpur dams.



- 13 -
(ii)  The completion of Narayanpur Left Bank Canal from
approximately 36 to 78 km, including the Rajankollur
tunnel (3 km) and the Gundalgeri tunnel (1 km); and
the construction of Shahapur branch canal (76 km).
(iii) The construction of lined/stabilized irrigation dis-
tribution system and drainage systems to serve an area
of about 105,000 ha.
(iv)  The construction of lined/stabilized field irrigation
channels to individual farms serving an area of about
80,000 ha.
(v) The rehabilitation and upgrading of about 70 km of
existing village and link roads and the construction
of about 530 km of new village and link roads.
(vi)  The construction of field drainage channels and on-
farm works including land shaping, farm irrigation
and farm drainage ditches for about 25,000 ha.
(vii) The establishment of a Land Development Training Center
to train staff on the design, execution, and operation
and management of land development works.
(viii) Implementation of a program of monitoring the water
use efficiencies and economic and social impact of
the project.
(ix)  Resettlement of families displaced due to construction
of dams under the project.
(x) Establishment of an agricultural development center,
agricultural research stations and other facilities.
(xi)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment for road con-
struction, operation and maintenance, agricultural
services, the Land Development Training Center and
project monitoring.
B.   Within Malaprabha Scheme
Construction of lined/stabilized field irrigation channels,
field drainage channels, and on-farm works including land
shaping, farm irrigation and farm drainage ditches, for
about 26,000 ha.
C.   Within Ghataprabha Scheme
Construction of lined/stabilized field irrigation channels,
field drainage channels, and on-farm works including land
shaping, farm irrigation and farm drainage ditches, for
about 5,000 ha.



- 14 -
Almatti and Narayanpur Dams (Salient Features - Annex 1, T-2)
3.03      Almatti Dam.  Almatti Dam creating live storage capacity of 974 Mm
is located in a well-defined gorge three miles below the confluence of the
Ghataprabha and Krishna rivers. The foundation of the dam consists of granites
in the river bed and quartzites in the flanks. The entire base of the dam is
being excavated into sound bedrock and will be treated with consolidation
grouting.
3.04      The dam would consist of a 1,160 m long masonry and concrete struc-
ture, and a 405 m long earth embankment on the left bank. The crest of the
dam would be 27 m above the river bed.
3.05      A central overslow spillway will be provided to handle a design
flood inflow of 40,100 m /sec.  It will have 26 gates 15 m wide and 12 m high.
The spillway would be constructed of stone masonry capped with concrete. A
reinforced concrete bridge with a 7.5 m wide roadway would be constructed over
it.  Dam sections on the left and right of the spillway would be 290.5 m and
383.2 m long, respectively, and constructed as non-overflow masonry dams. A
drainage-cum-grouting gallery would be provided for the entire length of the
masonry dam.
3.06      Provision would be made for the future construction of a power
station (installed capacity 5 x 30 MW) in the non-overflow section to the
right of the spillway. Penstocks, intake gates and penstock head gates would
be installed during the present construction program. The additional costs
involved for these items would be borne by the Mysore Power Corporation.
3.07      The design of the earth embankment is similar to that for the
Narayanpur earth dams (para 3.11).
3.08      Narayanpur Dam.  The dam creating live storage of 660 Mm  consists
of a gravity masonry and concrete center section 1,023 m long with a maximum
height of 26 m above the river bed. The left end of the dam is earth fill
1,388 m long and the right end has an earth fill 3,414 long, plus a saddle dam
10 m high and 2,194 m long, making a total dam length of 8,019 m.
3.09      Granite with small pegmatite intrusions is exposed in the river bank
and is found at shallow depths on the flanks. The entire base of the masonry
and concrete portions of the dam are being excavated into sound bed rock and
have been treated with consolidation and curtain grouting.
3.10      A central overflow gated spilllay of concrete will be provided to
handle a design flood inflow of 43,300 m /sec.  It will have 30 gates 15 m
long and 12 m high bridged with a 7.5 m wide roadway.  On either side of the
spillway is a non-over flow masonry dam section (214 m long on the left side
and 257 m on the right side) to be constructed of rubble masonry in cement
mortar.  A drainage-cum-grouting gallery of 1.6 m by 2.4 m is being constructed
along the entire length of the dam.



- 15 -
3.11      The earthen dams would have a top width of 7.5 m and are designed
with an impervious core and a semi-pervious casing. The left bank earthen
dam would have a 2.5:1 slope on the upstream side and a 2:1 slope with a
3 m wide berm on the downstream side. The earthen dam on the right bank has
a 3:1 slope on the upstream side and a 2-1/2:1 slope with two 3 m berms on
the downstream side. The upstream slopes are faced with hand cut stones.
The core of the earth dam is being constructed of BC soil. A 1.2 m thick
inclined filter composed of sand and two sizes of gravel and placed against
the face of the clay core is provided for vertical drainage. The outer zones
of the earth dam consist of decomposed granite and quartzite.
3.12      Dam Safety.  The designs and methods of constructing Almatti and
Narayanpur dams have been reviewed by IDA consultants and a special panel
of Indian experts to ensure that the engineering and construction conforms
to good engineering practices that will ensure the safety of the dam. The
recommendations of these experts have been accepted by GOI, GOK and IDA.
GOI's Central Water Commission, as requested by GOK, would make adequate
arrangements for the general supervision of quality control of the Narayanpur
and Almatti dams and spillways and the tunnels of the LBC. GOK plans to
establish, and maintain during the implementation of the Project, two quality
control units with full time staff reporting to the Superintending Engineer
in charge of designs. These arrangements are satisfactory to the Association.
3.13      In addition to regular inspection of the dams and spillways by
project and State engineers, the CWC will inspect the dams and spillways
annually for the first three years after completion and at least every five
years thereafter. The GOK will carry out any work found to be necessary
as a result of such inspections. Dam safety will be a primary consideration
in these inspections.
3.14      Resettlement and Rehabilitation.  Almatti reservoir would submerge
some 25,000 ha of land presently cultivated and Narayanpur reservoir 16,000 ha.
About 13,000 families would be affected. GOK has a clear cut policy for the
rehabilitation of persons whose lands come under submersion under irrigation/
power projects. This has been laid down in a Government order of August 19,
1970. The amenities to be provided to such persons under this policy include
providing lands for cultivation. For the purpose of making adequate arrange-
ments for rehabilitation of those whose properties come under submersion
under the Karnataka Irrigation Project, GOK in an order of May 7, 1973 has
constituted a Rehabilitation Committee, consisting of both official and non-
official members, headed by the Divisional Commissioner, Belgaum Division.
In addition to this committee, a Rehabilitation sub-committee under the chair-
manship of the Deputy Commissioner of the District has also been constituted.
The subcommittee is charged with responsibility for implementing the policy
laid down by the main committee. The GOK would construct 25 village centers
for the population in the Narayanpur reservoir area; two have already been
completed. Another 25 village centers would be constructed around the Almatti
reservoir. Villagers would receive free house sites in new village centers,
which would be provided with roads, water supply facilities, schools, a
panchayat hall, places of worship and other amenities. Villagers would be



- 16 -
compensated for loss of land and structures at a fair market value. Present
compensation for land is Rs 3,125/ha. Transportation of villagers to new
settlements is at the cost of the Government. An assurance has been obtained
from GOK that it will allocate to the extent possible land suitable for cul-
tivation to the farmers resettled from the Almatti and Narayanpur reservoir
areas.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.15      The Krishna River flows through the States of Maharashtra, Karnataka
and Andhra Pradesh. To decide on water allocations among the States, a Tri-
bunal was set up by GOI and its report published in 1976. Karnataka was
alloted 19,820 Mm (700 TMC) plus a return flow of 10%. Only part of this
flow is utilized at present.
3.16      Estimates of net water requirements for the design cropping pattern
were made using the modified Penman method for potential evapotranspiration,
and taking into account a reduction in demand for effective rainfall and
utilization of available soil moisture in BC soils in the rabi season. Gross
diversion requirements were calculated by taking into account a conveyance effi-
ciency of 70% for the lined canal system, and irrigation efficiencies below the
pipe outlets of 80% in the case of paddy cultivation and 65% for field crops.
The resulting overall project water use efficiency is 46%.  The gross diversion
requirements for a year with 75% dependable rainfall is 2,790 Mm (98.5 TMC).
Thl sum of this requirement and the estimated reservoir evaporation is 3,185
Mm (112.5 TMC), which falls within the water allocation for UKS. The average
monthly diversion requirement reaches a maximum of 0.50 1/sec/ha in December.
The LBC has a capacity equivalent to 0.60 1/sec/ha. This provides a 17%
margin for peaking during critical dry periods (Annex 1, T-3).
3.17      An assurance has been obtained from GOK that it shall make water
available from its share of the river Krishna in sufficient quantities to
meet the requirements of the projected cropping patterns.
3.18      A reservoir operation for a year with 75% dependable river flows
and rainfall shows that the storage capacities of Almatti and Narayanpur
reservoirs are sufficient to support the design cropping pattern for the rabi
season. Assuming completion of upstream projects, an analysis of the water
supply and demand situation for the years since 1885 reveals that a full water
supply would have been available in about 94% of the years but that severe
deficiencies would have occured for the rest.
3.19      Water samples from the Krishna River showed electric conductivity
values from 300-500 micromohs, indicating that the water is well suited for
irrigation.
Major Irrigation, Drainage and Road Systems
3.20      Irrigation Distribution System.  The LBC would command an area of
409,000 ha. The LBC has a length of 78 km and a design capacity at its



- 17 -
headworks of 283 m /sec (10,000 cusecs); its construction would involve
tunnels at Rajankollur (37-40 km) and near Gundalgeri (at 55 km).  Work on
the first 36 km of LBC is in various stages of construction, as well as work
on distributaries Nos. 1, 2 and 3, which would serve about 7,000 ha.
3.21      The project would include the construction of LBC from approximately
36 km to 78 km and construction of the 76 km long Shahapur branch canal. The
two canals would ultimately command an area of 127,000 ha. The project also
includes construction of distributaries Nos. 4 through 12 of LBC, serving
41,000 ha, and 9 of the 16 distributaries on the right bank of the Shahapur
branch canal, serving 64,000 ha. The total area to be provided with distri-
bution systems under the project would thus amount to 105,000.
3.22      The completion of LBC under the project includes the construction
of tunnels at Rajankollur (3,015 m long) and near Gundalgeri (1,175 m long).
The Rajankollur tunnel passes through shale formations and the Gundalgeri
tunnel through limestone formations. They are designed as non-pressure
horseshoe-shaped tunnels with diameters of 10.8 m. The tunnels would be lined
with 50 to 80 cm unreinforced concrete except for short sections of weak rock
where steel supports and reinforced concrete lining would be needed.
3.23      Lining of irrigation canals in BC soils is not necessary to prevent
seepage losses as the soils have very low infiltration rates. Stabilization
of the canal profile is, however, a technical necessity as the soils are
highly erodible. It has been observed in other areas with BC soils that
unlined canals quickly deteriorate and start meandering. Canals in BC soils
with capacities above 0.3 m /sec (10 cusecs) would be stabilized with a layer
of murrum and lined with concrete. The economic justification for the concrete
lining of the canal system is given in paras 6.16-6.19. Canals in BC soils
with capacities below 0.3 m /sec  would only be stabilized with murrum.
3.24      Excessive seepage losses would occur in unlined canals in the highly
permeable red soils and canals in these soils would be concrete lined.
3.25      Subject to additional research (para 3.36), the thickness of the
murrum layer in canals in BC soils would vary from 10 cm at the top to 1.0 m
at a depth of 3.0 m for concrete lined canals and a thickness of 1.5 m at
3.0 m depth for unlined canals. Concrete of 10 cm thickness would be cast in
situ for the bed of the canal; concrete lining would consist of precast con-
crete tiles (50 x 50 cm, 5 cm thick) for the sides; concrete mixes would be
1:3:6 for the cast in situ concrete and 1:2:4 for the tiles. Between tiles,
cement mortar would be used in the joints. The ratio of water depth to bottom
width would vary from 1.5 to 3 for concrete lined canals in red soils and 2
to 4 for murrum lined canals.  Side slopes for canals would be 1:1 in murrum,
1-1/2:1 in gritty soils and 2:1 in BC soils. Where the main canal passes
through rocky reaches, it would have side slopes of 1/4-1/2:1 and would be
lined with 25 cm thick masonry covered with one inch plaster. Uplift of
concrete lining would be prevented through longitudinal and cross drains
and relief valves where necessary.



- 18 -
3.26      For the purpose of efficient water distribution, the command area
will be subdivided into irrigation units (or outlet commands) of approximately
20-30 ha in size. Each outlet command would receive water from the distribu-
tion system at one point only, through a nine-inch gated pipe outlet and a
discharge measuring device.
3.27      The distribution system would be provided with a sufficient number
of control structures for efficient water control. The head regulator of LBC
would consist of six radial gates provided with electrical hoists. Provision
would also be made for manual operation. Manually operated radial gates or
lift gates would be provided at the head of each branch canal, distributary
and minor. Five regulators would be constructed in LBC. These regulators
would make it possible to divert full flow in the distributary when the main
canal is flowing at two-thirds of its capacity. Regulators would also be
provided in the distributaries and minors where needed, following the same
design criteria. Standing wave flumes would be constructed at the LBC head-
works and at the head of each distributary, minor and subdistributary. Pro-
vision would further be made for construction of escapes, tail regulators,
cross drainage works, aquaducts, cart track crossings, bridges, etc. Struc-
tures in BC soils would be founded on a layer of non-5ohesive soil to ensure
that foundation pressures would not exceed 5,000 kg/m .
3.28     O&M roads would be provided along canais, generally on canal embank-
ments. Irrigation canals with more than 0.55 m /sec (20 cusecs) carrying
capacity would also have an inspection path on the other side of the canal.
Minimum top widths for O&M roads and inspection paths would be as follows:
Top Width (m)
Canal                            O&M Road   Inspection Path
Main canal and branch channels             4.25             2.45
Distributaries a d minors carrying
more than 0.55 m /sec                      3.65             1.20
3
Minors carrying less than 0.55 m /sec    3.05                 -
3.29      Where it is technically feasible and economically advantageous, a
village and O&M road would be combined. In such case, the road would be de-
signed and classified as a village road (paras 3.32-3.34). Roads classified
as O&M roads are not open to the public in Karnataka and vehicular traffic on
such roads is low. No special road surface is therefore required for O&M
roads when the canal embankment is constructed of red soils. Canal embank-
ments of BC soils would be surfaced with 15-20 cm of murrum.
3.30      Drainage System.  The command area would be provided with a sur-
face drainage system and ARDC's drainage criteria would be adopted. These
criteria require that the drainage system, in areas of field crops, would be
designed to drain a 24 hour rainfall (200 mm) of five year frequency in 40
hours. For a 100 ha unit, this would require a design capacity of 2.3 1/sec/ha
for red soils and 4.5 1/sec/ha for BC soils. To the extent necessary, natural



- 19 -
drainage channels (nullahs) would be enlarged to carry the required capacity.
Where necessary PWD would provide erosion protection (drop structures or
turfing) in the channels. Vehicular crossings would also be constructed.
3.31      No water logging is foreseen in red soils.  Red soil areas have,
moreover, well developed natural drainage patterns. Drainage of BC soils is
more problematic but as the available water supply would be thinly spread over
the project area no serious problems are foreseen, except in the flatter areas
along the Krishna River (some 15% of the command area) where post-monsoon
depths to water tables are only 2 to 3 m. As a precaution, water levels in
existing wells would be closely monitored in these areas. Also, adequate
right-of-way would be provided so that, at a later stage, drains could be
deepened easily to provide for sub-surface drainage. As and when required
additional funds would have to be made available for this by GOK in the
future.
3.32      Roads.  The road program would consist of improvements to about 70
km of existing village and link roads and construction of about 530 km of new
village and link roads. Design criteria for the road layout would be as
follows:
(a) all parts of the irrigated areas would be brought
within about 1.5 km distance of an all-weather road;
(b) existing village tracks would only be improved under
the project if their present alignment fits reasonably
well with the future layouts;
(c) village roads would by-pass villages to avoid congestion;
and
(d) wherever it is both economically advantageous and
technically acceptable to do so, village roads would
follow canal alignments so as to serve both public
and canal maintenance needs.
3.33      All project roads would be classified as Village and/or Link Roads,
designed and built to Indian Road Congress (IRS) specifications. The right
of way, formation and pavement widths would be 20 m, 7.5 m and 3.75 m, re-
spectively. In irrigated areas, the minimum embankment height would be 0.6 m.
All pavements would be designed using CBR (California Bearing Ratio) curves
for flexible pavements, subject to a minimum thickness of 32.5 cm; the wear-
ing course would be constructed of waterbound macadam or, where justified by
test results, of first quality murrum. Over BC soil formations, a water-
bound macadam wearing coat would be essential and the bottom layer of the
pavement would comprise 30 cm of compacted murrum. In areas where the soils
consist of first quality murrum, the entire road structure, including the
pavement, would be built of this material. Murrum hard shoulders 1.88 m
wide and consolidated to a thickness of 30 cm would be provided on all
roads; on BC soil embankments, the murrum would be extended down the side
slopes. Dry watercourse crossings would consist of masonary or concrete
pavements laid at stream bed level.



- 20 -
3.34      Road plans had not been finalized before appraisal.  -n assurance
was obtained from GOK in respect to the roads to be constructed under the
project that GOK shall, prior to undertaking any construction, prepare and
furnish to IDA for its comments, a detailed layout plan for the '-QC
Improvements to existing main roads in the project area would be necessary
but are not included in the project. GOK will, by December 31, 1982, in
consultation with the Association carry out a survey of existing main roads
to determine the scope and cost of necessary improvements. On the basis of
the results of this survey, GOK will implement a roads improvement program
in the area covered by the Project.
3.35      Engineering Design.  Design standards and construction methods
would follow the Indian Standard Specifications (ISS) and the Indian standard
Code of Practice (ISC). Hydraulic computations for canals and structures
conform to accepted engineering practices. Since gravel and good quality rock
are readily available in all parts of the project area, structures would be of
concrete or rock masonry.
3.36      Additional research is required to refine the technical specifica-
tions for: (i) canal stabilization with murrum, and (ii) concrete lining on
a layer of murrum in the BC soils. The project, therefore, includes a soil
testing program to be undertaken by the Indian Institute of Technology of
Powai consisting of laboratory and field tests and the testing of three
canal sections, each about 100 m long. The program would take three years
to complete and would cost about Rs 800,000. In order to gain and evaluate
additional experience concerning concrete lining in BC soils during the first
two years of projeSt implementation, canals in BC soils with capacities bet-
ween 0.3 and 1.0 m /sec would be lined and stabilized, respectively, alter-
nating between minors.
3.37      Construction Methods.  Construction would generally be carried out
by manual labor. This is in line with GOI's policy to provide maximum employ-
ment during the implementation of public works. Also, faster implementation
of the irrigation distribution system through construction machinery would not
yield benefits earlier, as the rate of field irrigation channel construction
is limited by the CADA implementation capacity. The use of machinery is,
however, necessary for the construction of earth embankments of Almatti and
Narayanpur dams where critical time schedules have to be met, for compaction
of canal embankments and road foundations by sheepsfoot and road rollers, for
hauling of construction materials, and for the construction of the Rajankollur
and Gundalgeri tunnels.
Field Channels and On-Farm Works
3.38      Works.  The irrigation distribution system would be provided with
gated pipe outlets of 30 1/sec (one cusec) capacity, which would command irri-
gation units or outlet commands of about 20-30 ha (see Map 13199). The
discharge through the pipe outlet would be measured through a standing wave
flume. Each outlet command would contain 3-5 farms (the average farm size
is 5.9 ha). The following land development works would be constructed within
the outlet commands: (i) field irrigation channels (one cusec capacity)
to convey irrigation water from the pipe outlet to each individual farm;



- 21 -
(ii) drainage channels to drain excess water from each farm to the major
drainage system; and (iii) on-farm development works (land shaping, irrigation
and drainage ditches).
3.39      Field channels would generally follow property boundaries as hold-
ings are large, except where the topography would make this impractical and
too costly. Each farm would receive water at one point from the field irri-
gation channel through a gated farm turnout.
3.40      Without special provisions, field irrigation channels in BC soils
would be very unstable and this would result in poor water management and high
operational losses. They would, therefore, be stabilized with 7.5 cm of
murrum. High seepage losses would, however, occur in unlined irrigation
channels constructed in red soils. To avoid this, they would be lined with
talikot slabs, made of natural stone quarried locally.
3.41      Each farm would be provided with access to a field drainage channel.
The channel would discharge into a tertiary drain at which point an outlet
structure would be constructed to prevent erosion. Field drainage channels
would have shallow triangular sections, would be turfed and provided with drop
structures to prevent erosion. ARDC's drainage criteria would be followed
(para 3.30).
3.42      Irrigation on the farm would be through either the border strip or
furrow irrigation method. Land shaping would consist of grading the fields
into narrow elongated strips without cross slope and a longitudinal slope
depending on soil type and topography.
3.43      Traditionally, access to farms is by informal right-of-way across
neighboring fields. Modification to access routes would be discussed with
farmers during the design of land development works within an outlet command.
Cart track crossings would be provided over field channels where necessary.
3.44      Survey and Design.  Detailed topographical maps for an area of about
155,000 ha are required for design and execution of field channels and land-
shaping works. The Survey of India will supply rectified aerial photographs
for 155,000 ha of the project area at a scale of 1:2,500 with contours at
0.25 m intervals. However, initial delivery would only commence in November,
1979, and GOK would have to provide its own surveys prior to that date. The
topographical maps would be available one year ahead of the scheduled field
channel construction.
3.45      Design of field channels and on-farm works would be carried out
simultaneously for each outlet command. Further, for proper coordination
between design of the irrigation distribution system and design of land
development works, the positions of pipe outlets would be marked in the field
one year ahead of the construction of field irrigation channels. As farmers
would receive loans, cost estimates for on-farm works would be calculated
for each farm.



- 22 -
3.46      Construction Methods.  Work programs for field channels, field
drains and on-farm works would be planned on a distributary basis and imple-
mented on an outlet command basis. Field channels and drains would be con-
structed by small contractors, mainly through manual labor. Structures would
be prefabricated and vibrating tables used to improve the quality of the
concrete.
3.47      About 25% of the land area has slopes of less than 0.6%.  Farms
in these areas need only land smoothing and this can be carried out by the
farmers themselves with bullock drawn equipment. Land shaping on farms with
more difficult topography would be undertaken over two consecutive years.
Rough land shaping by earthmoving machinery would be undertaken in the first
year. Under this procedure, fields would be graded to levels not deviating
more than 7.5 cm from design levels. Construction of on-farm ditches and,
in the second year, land smoothing to final grades would be undertaken by the
farmers themselves under the guidance of CADA. The farmers would usually
have expenditures for the hire of bullocks and labor for these tasks. In
order to simplify credit operations, the costs for these works would be
included in the farmers' loans for land development.
3.48      Rough land shaping would be carried out by the Agro Industries
Corporation (AIC). Equipment to be purchased by AIC would be financed by
GOK.
Agricultural Development and Training
3.49      A Land Development Training Center would be set up in the agricul-
tural complex of UKS and operated by CADA to train staff in design, execution
and operation and management of land development works. Topics taught would
include water management, design and construction of field channels and struc-
tures, design and execution of land shaping, surveying methods, etc. Training
courses would also be provided for prospective operators of earth moving equip-
ment.  During the five year project period, the Training Center would train
the staff of eight Divisions of the CADA Engineering Wing comprising of about
about 250 engineers and 1,600 surveyors and field assistants. Also about 350
tractor operators would be trained. Training would be through short courses
of 2-4 weeks providing a theoretical background but with emphasis on practical
applications. The establishment and operating costs of the Training Center
are included in the project costs. A program of adaptive agricultural re-
search and development is included in the project. This will include the
establishment of an agricultural development and research center (in which
will be established an agricultural research station, agricultural development
center, agricultural school and seed farm).
Implementation Schedule
3.50      Narayanpur Dam is scheduled for completion in early 1980 and Almatti
Dam early 1983. Irrigation, drainage and road networks for UKS would be
completed in 1990 and land development works by 1992 (Annex 1, C-1). The
completion of field irrigation channels would lag about one year behind the



- 23 -
completion of the distribution system. On-farm works and field drainage
channels would be completed within two years after construction of field
irrigation channels. The pace of land development and construction of field
drainage channels would be slower in the early years of development as substan-
tial field survey work has to be carried out and an effective CAD organization
to handle, inter alia, field surveys, design and execution of on-farm develop-
ment works, administrative and legal procedures and processing of loan appli-
cations for institutional credit would still have to be set up and the neces-
sary staff trained. It is anticipated that the speed of on-farm development
would progressively increase and would reach a rate of about 50,000 ha per
year in 1986. A schedule of critical events is given in Annex 1, T-20.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
3.51      A number of assumptions have been made for project design and
appraisal needs regarding water supply, crop demand, effective rainfall,
irrigation efficiencies, cropping patterns, yields and other parameters. It
is of importance for further development of UKS and for future project eval-
uation that such assumptions be compared with actual field data. A monitoring
program is, therefore, included in the project and would involve water use
studies and assessment of project benefits. Records on actual construction
costs would be maintained by PWD. An assurance has been obtained from GOK
that promptly after completion of the project, it shall prepare and furnish
to the Association a report, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it.
3.52      Water Use Studies.  The PWD would undertake studies to determine
canal conveyance efficiencies, field irrigation efficiencies (within the pipe
outlet command), and other relevant information. Data to be collected would
include river flow measurements, reservoir evaporation, meteorological data
and continuous measurement of flows into LBC and its distributaries. An
area of approximately 1,000 ha would be selected for continuous measurement
of flows in all distributaries, sub-distributaries, minors and selected
drainage channels. For a number of selected outlet commands, inflow-outflow
measurements would be undertaken to determine field application efficiencies.
All flow measuring stations would be equipped with automatic water level
recorders.
3.53      Monitoring Project Benefits.  The studies required would be carried
out by the Karnataka University of Agricultural Science and GOK and would
include:
(i) Benchmark surveys to determine present farm practices,
cropping patterns, yields and characteristics of farms
and households. The first survey would be made in
1978 with follow-up surveys at three year intervals;
(ii) Yearly cropping patterns, yields, and changes in use
of inputs;



- 24 -
(iii) Changes in farmer participation in organizations such
as credit and marketing cooperatives; and
(iv) Changes in net family incomes.
Cost Estimates
3.54      Total costs of the works to be carried out during the FY 1978/79-
1981/82 project period amount to US$284.4 M. This amount includes a foreign
exchange cost of about US$53.5 M or some 19%. Detailed cost estimates of dams,
major canals and tunnels were prepared in 1976 but have been updated to reflect
the higher contract prices experienced at the time of appraisal and take into
account inflation upto April 1978. Cost estimates of village roads, distribu-
tion systems, field channels and on-farm works were completed during the course
of appraisal, and updated to anticipated April 1978 prices. Duties and taxes
are insignificant and therefore not included. The GOK's costs for administra-
tion, design and construction supervision are estimated at 15% of construction
costs. Physical contingency factors of 15, 10 and 5% were applied to costs of
new construction work, equipment and services, and on-going construction con-
tracts, respectively and averaged 12% during the project period. Price
contingencies are estimated at about 23% of base costs in accordance with
inflation rates of 8% annually for civil works and of 7-1/2% for equipment
during 1978 and 7% thereafter. Cost estimates are detailed in Annex 1, T-4
to T-7 and summarized below:
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ million -----
Almatti & Narayanpur Dams                              44.7      8.1       52.8
Irrigation and Drainage Systems                        71.2    19.7       90.9
Village Roads                                           7.7      1.4       9.1
Land Development                                       19.0      3.5      22.5
Engineering, Supervision & Administration              24.0      5.5      29.5
Equipment, Services & Project Monitoring                3.1      1.4        4.5
Agricultural Supporting Services                        3.5      0.4        3.9
Base Cost                                        173.2    40.0      213.2
Physical Contingencies                                 17.4      4.1      21.5
Price Escalation                                       40.3      9.4      49.7
Total Project Cost                               230.9    53.5      284.4
Financing
3.55      The proposed credit of US$126 M would finance a foreign exchange
component of US$46.6 M and the balance in local costs. On-going civil works
contracts and related costs for contingencies, design, management and adminis-
tration, totalling US$32 M, would not be eligible for IDA financing. All major
infrastructure and construction of field irrigation and drainage channels



- 25 -
would be financed by GOK from its development budget, which would include a
GOI contribution. On-farm works would be financed through institutional
credit. Operation and maintenance costs would be financed by GOK from
its budget.
3.56      The credit would be made to GOI.  An assurance has been obtained
from GOI that: (i) the proceeds of the credit, except disbursements for on-
farm works would be channeled to GOK in accordance with GOI's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, and (ii) dis-
bursements for on-farm works (US$7.0 M) would be made available to ARDC.
GOK has given an undertaking that the project would be implemented in
accordance with the schedule of expenditure (Annex 1, T-8) and has given an
assurance that it undertakes to complete the UKS as early as is technically
and financially feasible. It is estimated that an additional US$420 M (in
1978 prices), would be required to complete UKS. Expenditures at this level
would amount to, at the most, 25% of GOK's annual irrigation investments and
less than 5% of its development budget.
3.57      On-farm works (US$17.0 M) 1/, including work undertaken by the
farmers themselves, would be financed through long-term institutional credit.
Finance would be provided by Commercial Banks (CBs) and Land Development Banks
(LDBs) in accordance with cost estimates and schedules of rates drawn up by
CADA and ARDC. Loan terms for eligible farmers would be for a maximum of 15
years, including a two year grace period, and at a minimum annual rate of
interest of 10-1/2%. Repayment would be on a progressive scale geared to the
repayment capacity of the farmers. Loans would be refinanced, not exceeding
90% by ARDC. ARDC's refinancing would be for periods in line with the matur-
ities of final loans and would bear interest of not less than 7.5% annually.
3.58      Farmers who have no resources of their own and are also not eli-
gible for ordinary bank loans because of defective land titles or indebtedness,
would receive special loans on the same terms but at about a 3% higher rate
of interest. These special loans would be fully financed from a Special Loan
Account (SLA) constituted in ARDC to finance ineligible farmers in the area.
Since land development is compulsory, farmers who are unwilling to apply
for ordinary land development loans would also be financed from the SLA.
Financial responsibility for SLA loans would be shared by GOI, GOK and ARDC.
The GOI would contribute 50% to this fund and GOK and ARDC each 25%. Details
on the operation of the SLA are given in ARDC guidelines, which are acceptable
to the Association.
3.59      Conditions for disbursement for on-farm works would be that:
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Association has been furnished to the
Association that the financial arrangements between GOK and ARDC to perform
the on-farm works have been made; (ii) the Association has received a satis-
factory banking plan for the purpose of improving the availability of short
and long-term institutional credit in the Upper Krishna command area; and
(iii) the Association has received a detailed training program for the staff
to be trained at the Land Development Training Center (para 3.49).
1/   Including costs for design, management, administration and physical
and price contingencies.



- 26 -
Procurement
3.60      Civil Works.  For tendering purposes, civil works would be grouped
as follows:
(a)  ICB Contracts.  The following contracts (totalling
US$63.8 M 1/ or 48% of the cost of civil works, field
channels and on-farm works) would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB):
(i) spillway gates for Almatti Dam (US$7.0 M);
(ii) Rajankollur and Gundalgeri Tunnels (two contracts
totalling US$25.9 M);
(iii) 37 km of LBC (two contracts totalling US$16.9 M); and
(iv) Shahapur branch canal (two contracts totalling
US$14.0 M).
In order to encourage the participation of local con-
tractors, tenders under (iii) and (iv) would be divided
in up to ten sub-contracts and tenderers would be per-
mitted to bid for either one or more sub-contracts.
Local contractors would be entitled to a 7.5% preference.
Tender documents would specify this preference and the
manner of its application.
(b)  Non ICB Works on Dams, Major Irrigation, Drainage, Road
Systems, and Buildings. (US$46.6 M) 1/. Work on the dams
is on-going, and outstanding civil works contracts for the
dams (valued at US$9.6 M) are relatively small, the largest
being about US$5.1 M. These contracts would not attract
foreign contractors and would therefore only be suitable for
local competitive bidding (LCB). Works on village centers,
irrigation, drainage and road systems would be individually
small, scattered over a large area, and would be carried out
intermittently as determined by seasonal weather conditions
and by the on-going agricultural activities. These works
would therefore be carried out under small LCB contracts.
Invitations to tender would be advertised locally in accord-
ance with standard Government procedures. For some work,
however, this may not be practicable and such work would
be carried out under piece work contracts.
(c) Field Channels and On-Farm Works (US$21.3 M) 1/. These works
have to be implemented on an outlet command basis, on short
notice and over a limited period of time so as to avoid
1/   The amounts shown are the basic costs, net of physical and price con-
tingencies and administration and engineering costs.



- 27 -
interference with crop cultivation. Field irrigation and
drainage systems would therefore be constructed through piece
work contracts. Rough land shaping by earth moving machinery
would initially be carried out by the AIC, the only avail-
able organization to undertake this type of work. Unit rates
woula be negotiated annually between AIC and CADA. The par-
ticipation of other contractors would, however, be encouraged.
(c)  Unit Price Contracts and Force Account Work.  GOK plans to let
contracts for on-farm development and other small works up
to an aggregate not exceeding 30% of all civil works under
the Project on unit price basis and to implement works for
watering and compacting of embankments; transportation of
murrum for stabilization; and manufacture and transportation
of pre-cast concrete structures and pre-cast concrete or
natural slabs by force account. This procedure is accept-
able to IDA.
3.61      Vehicle; and Equipment.  The estimated cost of vehicles and equip-
ment for road construction, project management, project monitoring, operation
and maintenance is US$4.3 M. 1/  Of this total, an estimated US$0.6 M would
be subject to ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. About US$3.7 M worth of vehicles and equipment are not
suitable for ICB: US$1.1 M represents groups of contracts costing less
than US$100,000 each for which ICB would be quite inefficient; the remaining
US$2.6 M consists mainly of field vehicles and trucks for which, because
of existing servicing and spare part supply facilities, there are consider-
able benefits to be derived from procuring local models. They would, there-
fore, be procured locally through normal procurement procedures of GOK which
are acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
3.62      Disbursement would be made for:  (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures
of directly imported equipment; (b) 70% of local expenditures for imported
equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of the ex-factory price for equipment
manufactured locally; (d) 70% of expenditures for civil works and field irri-
gation channels; and (e) 55% of ARDC's refinance for on-farm development and
drainage channels. Full documentation would be made available by GOK for all
disbursements, except for payments up to Rs 50,000 for civil works and
Rs 20,000 for equipment and vehicles, for which disbursments would be made
against certificates of expenditure. Supporting documents for these payments
would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by GOK and ARDC
and made available for inspection by IDA during the course of review missions.
A schedule of estimated expenditures, the proposed allocation of the proceeds
of the credit, and an annual disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 1,
T-8 to T-10.
1/   The amounts shown are the basic costs, net of physical and price
contingencies and administration and engineering costs.



- 28 -
Accounts and Audits
3.63      The PWD, AD and CAD departments would be subject to normal Govern-
ment control and auditing procedures which are considered to be satisfactory.
Assurances were obtained from GOK that the accounts and financial statements
would be submitted to the Bank within twelve months after the end of each
fiscal year.
3.64      Auditing procedures for ARDC are laid down in previous Credit
Agreements. Assurances were obtained that ARDC would require the lending
banks participating in the project to maintain separate accounts for project
lending and would ensure that the annual audited accounts of such banks would
be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of their fiscal year,
together with a statement of project lending for such banks certified by
ARDC.
Environmental Effects of the Project
3.65      Some cases of malaria occur from time to time in che project area.
The construction of drainage facilities and the grading of farm land would
reduce mosquito breeding. Also, borrow pits excavated in the course of con-
struction would be drained. Under these conditions, the project would not
have an adverse impact on the health situation in the area. An assurance
has been obtained from GOK that it shall promptly take necessary measures
to minimize the hazards of malaria and other water related diseases in the
project area.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      Construction of the major infrastructure would be the responsibility
of the ID. Construction of field irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm
development works would be under the administrative control of CADA.
Irrigation Department
4.02      The ID would be directly responsible for construction of: (a) Almatti
and Narayanpur dams; (b) the irrigation system up to and including the pipe
outlets; (c) the major drainage system; and (d) village roads. Responsibility
for the design and execution of these works would rest with a Chief Engineer
(CE, Dams) and a CE (Canals) (Annex 1, C-2). The CEs would be responsible to
the Special Secretary Irrigation in the Ministry of Public Works and Electri-
city. Both CEs have been posted to the project.
4.03      Two Superintending Engineers (SEs) would be attached to each CE
office. A SE (Designs) would be responsible for planning, design, quality
control, and project monitoring. A SE (Works) would be responsible for
organization, management and tendering of construction works. Two quality



- 29 -
control units, with full time staff will be maintained during the project.
GOI's Central Water Commission, as requested by GOK, would make adequate
arrangements for the general supervision of quality control of the Narayanpur
and Almatti dams and spillways and the tunnels of the Narayanpur LBC.
4.04      The CEs would delegate construction responsibilities to SEs, each
in charge of a Project Circle. Each SE would supervise 5-6 Construction
Divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer (EE). The EEs would super-
vise a number of Assistant Engineers (AEs) and the AEs in turn would supervise
Junior Engineers (JEs). Two Dam Circles and one Canal Circle are at present
in operation. Additional Canal Circles and a Special Circle for construction
of village roads would be established in accordance with requirements. Mecha-
nical Divisions would install spillway gates and maintain equipment. The
required build-up of the construction organization is shown in Annex 1, T-12.
Command Area Development Authority (CADA)
4.05      The GOK established a CADA for the Tungabhadra, Malaprabha,
Ghatabrabha and Cauvery basin projects in January 1974 and in September 1977
for the UKS.
4.06      At the State level, CAD policy is formulated by a Cabinet Sub-
Committee and by a Secretariat Committee comprised of: the Chief Secretary
(Chairman); Development Commissioner; Commissioner for Agriculture; Revenue
Commissioner; Financial Commissioner, and Special Secretary, Irrigation Depart-
ment. The CAD organization (Annex 1, C-3) is headed by an Additional Secre-
tary to the Government, Planning Department (CAD) who reports to the Develop-
ment Commissioner.
4.07      At the project level, CADA Boards have been established for each of
the above listed projects. The chairman of each board is the Administrator
and senior representatives of concerned Departments and representatives of
lending institutions and farmers are members.
4.08      Under the Supervision of the Board, CADA functions through an Exe-
cutive Committee chaired by the Administrator and with senior departmental
officers as members. This committee is empowered to make decisions on rou-
tine day-to-day matters and such matters as may be delegated to it by the
CADA Board.
4.09      The Administrator is the chief executive for planning and implemen-
tation of the CAD program. He has operational control over agricultural and
extension activities, and the engineering and credit units. In both the UKS
and the Ghataprabha/Malaprabha CADA's, the Administrators are CEs. All units
operating at project level would be headed by technical officers and con-
trolled by their respective Heads of Department. The headquarters of CADA
in the case of UKS is in Shahapur and for Ghataprabha/Malaprabha in Belgaum.
4.10      The main CADA link with project farmers is through Village Irriga-
tion Committees chaired by the village Panchayat Chairman and with two members
of the Panchayat, the Section Officer, the Agricultural Field Assistant, the
Gram Sevak, and the Village Accountant as members.



- 30 -
Field Channels and On-Farm Works
4.11      Special measures would be undertaken to avoid the delays in the
implementation of field irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
that have occured in the past in other projects (see para 1.11). To ensure
the earliest possible completion of field irrigation and drainage channels,
they would be constructed by GOK and financed from the GOK development budget
and not through institutional credit as in the past. In this way, construc-
tion of field irrigation and drainage channels to serve each individual farm
would be guaranteed. The legal instruments for the construction of field
channels and acquisition of rights of way are provided under the Irrigation
Act of 1965.
4.12      On-farm works as in the past, be undertaken through institutional
credit. The Land Improvement Act (1961), empowers the State to make the
execution of such works compulsory. So far, the provisions of the Act have
been ignored. The rationale being that as irrigation delivery to the farm
level could not be guaranteed, it was unrealistic to compel farmers to con-
struct works to optimize the use of irrigation water. Consequently, land
development has been slow and unsystematic. An assurance has been obtained
from GOK that it would ensure compulsory land development. The problem of
farmers ineligible for a land development loan under normal banking proce-
dures, would be handled through the Special Loan Account (SLA) (para 3.58).
4.13      Land development has been the joint responsibility of the ID and
AD, but this has not been satisfactory. Land development work in UKS would
therefore be the responsibility of an Engineering Wing of CADA which would be
created for this purpose. Designs would be prepared by specialized staff in
the SE's office. As construction of field irrigation channels would be at
least one year ahead of on-farm works and construction of field drainage
channels, there would be separate divisions for these two activities. Divi-
sions for field irrigation channel construction would complete about 10,000 ha
per year and divisions responsible for on-farm works and field drainage channels
about 5,000 ha per year. The number of Divisions required each year to carry
out the implementation program is indicated in Annex 1, T-12. The training of
staff would be undertaken in the Land Development Training Center (para 3.49).
4.14      Rough land shaping would be undertaken through contractors and the
final land smoothing by the farmers themselves (para 3.47). The construction
of field irrigation channels would ensure a timely and secure water supply to
each farm and this would provide the farmers with the incentive to undertake
this work. To avoid the misuse of water ID, would apply the provisions of the
Irrigation Act and not supply irrigation water to farms that are not properly
developed after the rough land shaping has been carried out.
4.15      A Cooperative Wing, headed by a Deputy Registrar of Cooperatives,
would prepare loan applications and ensure financing through LDBs and CBs.
In case of the on-going Malaprabha and Ghataprabha projects, CADA had dele-
gated the implementation of the land development works to the Soil
Conservation Service of the AD.



- 31 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
4.16      Applied Agricultural Research.  A main research center and two
smaller sub-centers to cover the three main soil types in UKS would be estab-
lished. The research work would be of an adaptive nature covering the fields
of soil, water and plant relationships, testing of crops and crop varieties,
developing suitable agronomic practices, cropping patterns and farm management
practices. The program would be undertaken by UAS and GOK.
4.17      Agricultural Extension.  The GOK proposes to reorganize and
strengthen the extension service along the pattern of existing and success-
ful IDA assisted extension projects in India. The program would initially
concentrate on CADA irrigated commands, starting with the UKS. One Agricul-
tural Assistant (Village Extension Worker) would be appointed to cover about
400 farms (2,000-2,500 ha), and one Agricultural Extension Officer would be
responsible for seven Agricultural Assistants (10,000 to 12,500 ha). At taluk
level, an Assistant Director of Agriculture would be responsible for all facets
of agricultural development. He would be assisted by an Assistant Director
of Agriculture re,ponsible for extension and up to four Subject Matter
Specialists. At project level, all extension activities would be controlled
by an officer of appropriate rank but not less than a Joint Director of
Agriculture. Staff housing, vehicles and equipment would be provided.
4.18      An assurance has been obtained from GOK that it shall, in consul-
tation with the Association strengthen its extension services in the area
covered by the Project.
4.19      Marketing.  The GOK recognizes that present marketing facilities in
the project area are poor. The SMD has undertaken to study the requirements
of the project and submit the results to IDA and ARDC. SMD's plans are for
two main markets: one at Shorapur and the other at Shahapur; in addition, a
sub-market at Hungsi. These markets would limit the maximum distance between
farm and market to 25 km. The cost of construction of market yards, includ-
ing infrastructure and shops, is estimated at Rs 12.60 M and such would be
provided through the on-going Agricultural Wholesale Markets Project (Credit
No. 378-IN). Arrangements for financing of market centers would be made by
ARDC.
4.20      Processing and Storage.  Present processing facilities are suf-
ficient to meet the needs of the project. The GOK plans to construct an
additional 25,000 tons of storage capacity by 1982/83. This capacity will
consist of 100 tons godowns attached to the Village Primary Agricultural
Credit Societies, 500 tons godowns at Sub-centers and buffer stock godowns
at Shorapur and Shahapur. Additional storage of 25,000 tons is being
provided at Raichur by the Food Corporation of India under the IDA assisted
Second Foodgrain Storage project 1/. These facilities will be sufficient to
meet the storage requirements of the project.
1/   Report No. 1643a-IN



- 32 -
4.21      Agricultural Credit.  The cooperative credit structure in UKS is
weak. GOK is aware of this and intends to take steps to improve both the
short term and long term credit structure. CBs would be playing a greater
role in providing institutional credit and their level of activity would be
strengthened considerably. A condition of disbursement for the on-farm works
would be the receipt of a Banking Plan satisfactory to the Association, for
UKS for the purpose of improving the availability of short and long-term
institutional credit (see para 3.59). An IDA credit of US$40 M (Credit No.
278-IN), was utilized by Karnataka to support a three year lending program for
investment in minor irrigation, land reclamation and development and farm
mechanization.
Operation and Maintenance
4.22      Organization.  The operation and maintenance of the irrigation dis-
tribution system would be the responsibility of the ID. The operation and
maintenance of the dam and distribution system would be delegated to two SEs
(Annex 1, C-4). The SE (dams) would supervise two Divisions, each headed by
an EE. There would be five Divisions to take care of the operation and main-
tenance of the distribution system, each serving about 80,0(0 ha. Each of
the 25 Sub-Divisions would manage about 16,000 ha of command area. A Sub-
Division would be headed by an AE who would supervise four JEs, eight Canal
Inspectors and 40 Patkaris. A Patkari is in charge of about 400 ha.
4.23      Maintenance.  An assurance has been obtained that GOK shall, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause dams and spillways con-
structed under the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with
sound engineering practices in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which may
endanger their safety.
4.24      Irrigation canals and structures would be inspected by the SE
(Canals) not less than twice each year and at least once when the canal is
dry. Detailed records would be kept on the condition and maintenance of the
works. Minor repairs and routine maintenance would be carried out by main-
tenance gangs; major maintenance work by locally contracted labor. Annual
operation and maintenance costs for the major irrigation system is estimated
at Rs 70/ha. Village roads, upon completion would be handed over to the C&B
for maintenance. An assurance has been obtained from GOK that it undertakes
to provide adequate funds at all times to operate and maintain, in accordance
with sound engineering standards, the facilities completed under the project.
4.25      Maintenance of field irrigation and drainage channels would be
the responsibility of the farmers. In the event the channels fall into dis-
repair, the ID is empowered to repair them and recover the costs from the
beneficiaries through the Revenue Department.
4.26      Operation.  The Karnataka Irrigation Act of 1965 (amended in 1975)
and the Karnataka Irrigation Manual (revised in 1972) provide comprehensive
rules and regulations for the operation of irrigation works in the State. The



- 33 -
Act empowers the State to prescribe the kind of crops to be grown in the proj-
ect area and their cultivation period. Decisions in this regard are taken by
a Consultative Committee consisting of the CADA Administrator or Divisional
Commissioner as Chairman, and as members, the SEs, representatives of the
Agriculture Department, Cooperative Department, public representatives, and
selected progressive farmers.
4.27      An assurance has been obtained from GOK that it shall, prior to
bringing any area covered by the Project under irrigation, prepare a water
allocation plan based on the cropping pattern for each area commanded by a
distributary. The plan would be implemented when the areas are brought under
irrigation. They would be based on the design cropping pattern and provide
detailed water delivery schedules for the pipe outlets and rotation schedules
for irrigation within the outlet commands. The Irrigation Officers are
responsible for ensuring that irrigation takes place according to the pre-
scribed turns.
V.  PRODUCTION, PRICES. FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
5.01      In the future "without UKS" situation, cropping patterns would not
be expected to change from the present, but yields would increase as a result
of GOK plans to provide a reorganized extension service, better agricultural
research and improved input supply and access to credit. In addition, a small
increase in the number of dugwells would be expected.
5.02      The UKS, however, would provide reliable irrigation for both
kharif and rabi crops. No major changes in types of crops grown are envi-
saged as present crops are best suited to existing climatic and soil condi-
tions and the restricted irrigation water supply. In the design cropping
pattern (see table below) emphasis is placed on the maximum utilization of
water to be made available in the rabi cropping season. For that reason
sugarcane is excluded and paddy treated as a minor crop as the increased
water demand would lead to a reduction in irrigated area. The main crops
grown will therefore continue to be cereals, cotton, pulses and groundnuts.



- 34 -
Cropping Patterns and Projected Yields - With and Without UKS
Season      Crop          Cropping Pattern             Projected Yields
% of Area                    tons/ha
W       W           W      WI     W2   W3
Kharif    Sorghum              3        21       0.60   2.7   3.2   3.6
Maize               -        11         -     3.0   3.6   4.0
Pearl Millet        7         7       0.45   2.3   2.7   3.0
Groundnut           7        12        0.45   1.5   1.9   2.2
(unshelled)
Chillies            -         3         -     0.8   0.9   1.0
Pulses              7         5 /a    0.35   0.4   0.4   0.4
Paddy               -         2         -     3.0   3.2   3.8
Sesamum             2        -        0.30    -       -     -
Minor Crops         1        -         0.40    -      -     -
Rabi       Sorghum            18        11       0.55   2.4   2.9   3.2
Sorghum ratoon      -         3         -     2.3   2.7   3.0
Wheat               2         7        0.40   1.3   1.6   1.8
Gram                1         3        0.35   0.6   0.7   0.8
Safflower           1         3       0.30   0.8   0.9   1.0
Seed Cotton        26        18       0.30   1.5   1.8   2.0
Cropping Intensity            85%      106% /a
/a Pulses non irrigated, thus irrigation intensity is 101%.
W     =   Future without UKS - rainfed
W         Future with UKS - irrigated
1    =   Future with major irrigation infrastructure and improved
agricultural extension
w2    =    1 plus field irrigation channels
3    -    2 plus land shaping and field drainage channels
5.03      The design cropping pattern takes into account the main soil types
and has been used for computations of crop water demand. The proposed crop-
ping intensity of 106% would utilize the net 99 TMC water allocation. Yield
data projections are based on the 1974/75 statewide agro-economic survey,
trial results from research stations, yields achieved by better farmers, and
production data supplied by the Departments of Agriculture and Revenue.
5.04      It is expected that sorghum hybrid varieties would largely replace
the traditional strains presently grown. These hybrids are capable of pro-
ducing high yielding ratoon crops, but due to problems of pest and disease



- 35 -
carry over, they would be grown on light soils where no rabi sorghum crop is
grown. The performance of hybrid pearl millet varieties has been disappoint-
ing due to their susceptibility to downy mildew; however, newer more resist-
ant varieties are expected to be released in the future. Hybrid maize is
expected to become an important crop, as indicated by the widespread and
promising crops seen on the Ghataprabha and Malaprabha schemes. Research
yields with the hybrid Deccan 101 have been in excess of 5.0 tons per ha.
Rice would be grown on a very restricted scale and confined to areas where
other crops cannot be grown due to seepage and water logging. Although wheat
is being grown on an increasing scale on the heavy soils of the Malaprabha
and Ghataprabha schemes, predicted yields are estimated at only 1.8 tons per
ha as the climate is by no means ideal for wheat cultivation. Cotton would
continue to be grown and present short staple varieties would be replaced by
long staple hybrid varieties, particularly "Varalaxmi" which was developed by
UAS at their Dharwar research station and has gained widespread popularity
under irrigation. Non-irrigated kharif pulses (green, black and horse grams)
would continue to be grown as at present and small areas of chick peas would
be grown as an irrigated rabi crop.
Financial Prices
5.05      Agricultural Products.  All farm inputs and outputs were evaluated
at present and projected 1985 farm gate prices expressed in January 1978 con-
stant prices. The price for cotton was based on the Bank's commodity price
forecasts. Projected prices for food crops are based on estimated historical
price trends 1/ in India, adjusted for local conditions in the project area.
Present prices represent the prevailing 10-12 months average wholesale price
in the local market.
5.06      Agro-chemicals  GOI exercises statutory control over the prices of
fertilizer. In 1974, when world market prices reached their peak, the Govern-
ment subsidy on imported fertilizer (i.e., urea) amounted to nearly Rs 2,000
per ton. During recent years, as world market prices have decreased, the
subsidy has been eliminated and the controlled prices are at about the same
level as world market prices. Consequently, for farm budget analysis, domestic
fertilizer prices are projected to conform with world market prices. The
prevailing local prices for insecticides and pesticides are assumed to remain
unchanged in the future.
5.07      Farm Labor and Farm Power . The wage rate for farm labor in the UKS
area is Rs 3.50 and Rs 2.0 per day during peak and slack periods, respectively.
In nearby major irrigation projects, with similar socio-economic character-
istics, the peak wage rate reaches Rs 6.0 per day. In the farm budget anal-
ysis, an average market wage rate of Rs 3.0 per man day under the "present"
and "without project" situations and Rs 5.0 per man day under "with project"
conditions was applied. It is estimated that the imputed cost to the owner of
a pair of bullocks is roughly equal to Rs 8.0, the daily rental charge. This
has consequently been uniformly applied for all crops and farm sizes.
1/   See Draft on Economic and Financial Prices of Agricultural Projects
India by staff of South Asia Projects Department.



- 36 -
5.08      Crop Input Requirements.  The present cultivation system is based
on low input, risk minimizing cultivation practices. Land preparation is
done by bullocks, and very little chemical fertilizer is used although farm
yard manure is widely applied. In the future "without project" situation,
only limited changes in cultivation practices are assumed to take place,
although some tractors may be introduced in the future "with project" situa-
tion. With assured irrigation and effective agricultural extension services,
farmers are likely to grow high-yielding varieties and use significant amounts
of fertilizer (Annex 1, T-13 - T-14).
Farm Incomes
5.09      Farm budgets have been prepared for three representative model farms
chosen according to the farm size distribution. The three models are 1.5 ha,
representing farm sizes less than 3 ha (40% of farm holdings owning 10% of the
area); 4.0 ha, representing farm sizes between 3 ha and 6 ha (30% of farm
holdings owning 20% of the area) and 10.0 ha, representing farm sizes over 6.0
ha (30% of farm holdings owning 70% of the land). Basic cropping patterns and
intensities are differentiated by size of farm. 1/ At present, smaller farms
have a higher cropping intensity than larger farms. In the future, it is
assumed that the irrigation intensity on all farms would be 101%, but that
smaller farms would have a slightly larger area under rainfed crops. The
actual cropping intensities used are shown below:
Farm size (ha)                      1.5            4.0        10.0
Cropping Intensity (%)
Present and Future without
project                       90             85          80
Future with project            107            106        104
5.10      The number of family members varies with farm size and the need for
hired labor depends on availability of family labor.  It is assumed that in
the 1.5 ha farm, family labor is sufficient for all field requirements both
at present and in the future. On the 4.0 ha farm, virtually no hired labor
is employed at present but under project conditions some hired labor would
be employed. At present, on the 10 ha farm, some labor is hired during the
peak season. In the "with project" situation, it is assumed that almost half
the labor requirements for the 10 ha farm would be supplied by hired labor.
5.11      Based on a socio-economic survey in the Ghataprabha, Malaprabha
and Tungabhadra areas, the current level of non-farm income is estimated at
around Rs 1,000 per year per family, irrespective of farm size. The relative
importance of the income, however, declines with larger farm sizes. The sub-
stantial rise in agricultural income due to the project would increase employ-
ment oppportunities and wage rates. However, labor requirements on the family
farm would also increase. Due to the lack of data on consumption patterns
and the supply of migrant labor, it is assumed that the non-farm income would
remain unchanged in the future.
1/   On the basis of farm management data provided by the Bureau of Economics
and Statistics, Bangalore.



- 37 -
5.12      Irrigation charges, land revenue and other local taxes are dis-
cussed in paras 5.15 and 5.20.
5.13      The results of the farm budget analysis, (Annex 1, T-15 to T-17)
show that for farms that would be provided with the full benefits of the
project components, the income levels would change as follows:
Relative Increase
Net Farm Income (Rs)             due to Project (%)
Farm                   Future              Future
Model   Present      Without UKS          With UKS               W - W
(P)           (W)                  (W)                  W
1.5 ha     735           1,470                6,815                365
4.0 ha   2,210           4,010               17,310                330
10.0 ha   5,520           9,775               37,080                280
Thus, net farm incomes would on average triple as a result of UKS assuming
that income taxes (para 5.20) are fully collected. If these taxes are not
effectively collected, then the increase in net farm incomes would be higher
on the larger farms.
Cost Recovery
5.14      Capital and O&M Costs.  The investment cost for irrigation and
drainage networks would amount to Rs 9,585 per ha and the annual charge for
recovery of these costs over 50 years at 10% interest is Rs 970 per ha.
On farm works, costing on average Rs 1,800 per ha would be financed through
institutional credit and fully recovered normally in 11 years. Annual O&M
costs are estimated at Rs 70 per ha.
5.15      Water and Water Related Charges.  Capital costs of the project
would be recovered through the Karnataka Betterment Charges Act. The Better-
ment levy amounts to Rs 3,700 per ha for twenty years at no interest. This
gives an annual payment of Rs 185 per ha. The prevailing water rates are
Rs 75 per ha for paddy and Rs 45 per ha for all other crops. A weighted
charge of Rs 50 was used for the cost recovery analysis. The land revenue
for rainfed lands is Rs 5 per ha per year and for irrigated lands Rs 20 per
ha per year. Local taxes (cesses) are calculated as a 59% addition to land
revenue.
5.16      Loan Repayments.  Loans for on-farm development have maturities of
11 years, but include an initial two year grace period. The rate of interest
is 10-1/2% per annum. Annual charges on these loans would be Rs 325 per ha.
However, annual repayment would be eroded by inflation which has historically
averaged about 8% per annum. In the third year after implementation of on-
farm works, the value of the loan charge would thus be about Rs 260 per ha
in constant 1978 terms.



- 38 -
5.17      Direct Cost Recovery.  Considering all the water related charges,
annual payments would amount to Rs 520 per ha for the lands benefitting from
on-farm development. This would give a cost recovery index of 38% (Annex 1,
T-18).
5.18      Farmers' Ability to Pay Water Charges.  For estimation of the
farmers' ability to pay water charges, it is necessary to estimate the "proj-
ect rent". This is equal to net incremental income less the necessary rewards
to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation risk. The
project rent has been analyzed for the three representative farm models (Annex
1, T-19). At full development, the average project rent of Rs 2,500 per ha
would give a rent recovery index of 21%. This would provide project farmers
with sufficient incentive to use irrigation water. In fact, there would
appear to be scope for a significant increase in the water related charges
collected under the project.
5.19      However, there are not only large variations in the benefits ac-
cruing from different projects but also between different farmers in the
same project. In view of the difficulties of assessing the benefits to each
individual farmer, the general policy in India is to charge a uniform water
rate. It has been observed in the older projects, that the water supply to
most tail-end farmers is highly unreliable and their benefits from "irriga-
tion" fairly low. Thus, water rates have to be set at a low level in order
to give the tail-end farmers sufficient incentive to use irrigation water,
although the "average" farmer would be able to pay substantially higher
charges. Until it is technically and administratively possible to implement
volumetric water charges, which better reflect the benefits that accrue to
each farmer, the water charges will remain at an inherently low level. Thus,
other taxes (e.g. sales taxes), which are easier to assess and collect are
given greater importance by the Government.
5.20      Other Taxes.  In Karnataka, a sales tax of 4% is levied on the sale
of all agricultural products. In addition, a 2% market charge is levied on
all produce sold through regulated markets. Of this total, 0.8% is used for
the operation of the market while 1.2% is collected by the state. GOK has a
progressive income tax system, and taxes are levied on all incomes exceeding
Rs 8,000 per annum, according to the following scale:
Income Tax - Rs 8,000-15,000   - 12% on the excess over Rs 8,000
- above Rs 15,000   - Rs 840 on first 15,000 plus
15% on excess
- above Rs 20,000   - Rs 1,590 on first 20,000 plus
20% on excess
- above Rs 30,000   - Rs 3,840 on first 30,000 plus
30% on excess
5.21      Indirect Cost Recovery.  The sales tax discussed above would
automatically increase GOK's revenue by about Rs 180 per hectare brought
under irrigation. In addition, if income taxes are also fully assessed and
collected, GOK's tax revenue would increase substantially to a total of
Rs 1,170 per ha, which is equivalent to 113% of annual capital and O&M costs
(Annex 1, T-18).



- 39 -
5.22      GOK is making a strong tax effort.  Over the past few years,
Karnataka's tax revenue per capita and as a percentage of state income was
about 40% higher than the national average. In view of the above, the proj-
ect charges are considered appropriate. However, the Betterment Levy has not
been systematically collected. Assurances have been obtained from GOK that:
(a) it shall make arrangements for a systematic assessment and collection
of a Betterment Levy in the area covered by the Project; and (b) it undertakes
to review and, if necessary, increase its water and water-related charges in
the area covered by the Project from time to time with the objective of col-
lecting full operational and maintenance cost and, to the extent possible,
cost of infrastructure investment, having regard, inter alia, for the incen-
tives and repayment capacity of farmers in the area covered by the Project.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
6.01      The five year phase financed by IDA forms an integral part of the
Upper Krishna Scheme and, thus, in this chapter, the benefits and justifica-
tion for completing UKS--with a CCA of 425,000 ha--are assessed. For the
sake of completeness, an analysis has been made of the costs and benefits of
a truncated UKS scheme, assuming no further work on infrastructure and land
development would be done after completion of the IDA financed five year
project. However, as discussed in para 3.56, this is a highly unlikely
eventuality.
6.02      Agriculture in the area is presently heavily dependent on rainfall.
Completion of UKS would reduce this dependence and provide farmers with more
assured and increased income levels. Development of UKS would also assist GOK
to achieve two other objectives, firstly, increase foodgrain production, and
secondly, reduce unemployment and underemployment by providing additional
employment opportunities to landless laborers and small farmers. Annual
production increases generated by UKS at full development (about year 2000),
are estimated at 765,000 tons of foodgrain, 109,000 tons of cotton, 110,000
tons of oilseeds and 11,500 tons of chillies from a CCA of 425,000 ha. The
value added to the economy at these production levels is estimated at Rs 1,815
M per annum.
Employment Effects
6.03      Overall direct employment effects will largely stem from the pro-
vision of irrigation in the UKS area. UKS would increase on-farm employment
from about 20 M man-days (without UKS) to 45 M man-days per annum, which is
equivalent to the creation of about 83,000 full time jobs.
6.04      With an increase in the value added in agriculture of some
Rs 1,815 M, UKS will generate additional income and employment in the local
non-farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing. Lack of re-
liable data on non-farm employment in the present situation and on consump-
tion patterns in the project area, make it extremely difficult to accurately



- 40 -
project future employment effects. However, district level data on value
added in agriculture and non-farm employment in Karnataka in 1970/71, 1/
indicates that an increase in value added in agriculture of Rs 1 M would
generate 60 full time jobs in the non-farm sector. On this basis, with
adjustments for inflation between 1970/71 and 1977/78, the increase in non-
farm employment is expected to be of the order of 60,000 man-years. Thus,
UKS would substantially decrease the high level of unemployment and under-
employment in the area and help to stem the rural-urban drift.
Income Effects
6.05      In 1974/75, average per capita income in the UKS area was Rs 650 2/,
about three-fifths of the average per capita income in India in the same
period (Rs 1,020). At present, even a family owning a median holding of 4 ha
is below the poverty line of Rs 600 or US$70. With the project, per capita
income of such families is expected to increase to about Rs 3,330 and would
thus be well above the national average. Income levels of landless laborers
in the UKS area are unknown. However, a survey in the Tungabhadra command
area 3/, revealed that as a result of irrigation, the average days worked
annually by landless laborers increased from about 130 to 230 days. With the
expected increase in wage rates as a consequence of irrigation (para 5.07),
this would imply that the UKS at full development, would,at least double
(and more likely triple) the incomes of the landless laborers.
Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis
6.06      The major components of the UKS--irrigation infrastructure, and
on-farm development--are interdependent. The benefits from either compo-
nent depends on whether and to what extent the other is implemented. Thus,
they are evaluated as a package. However, in order to justify the composition
of the package, benefits and costs associated with each of the components are,
as far as possible, analyzed separately.
6.07      It is expected that a statewide extension reorganization will be
implemented in the future that will provide for the needs of the UKS area.
It is assumed that UKS farmers would benefit from such an improved extension
service and this is reflected in both the future "without" and future "with
UKS" situations.
6.08      The economic analysis of UKS follows standard Bank methodology.
No premium is placed on public or private savings and thus, public income and
private consumption are assumed to be equally valuable. However, instead of
1/   Statistical Abstract of Karnataka 1973-74, Bureau of Economics and
Statistics, Bangalore, 1975.
2/   Estimates of District Income in Karnataka 1974/75, Bureau of Economics
and Statistics, Bangalore, 1976.
3/   Canal Irrigation in Bellary District, G.P. Mishra, M. Vivekananda and
Y.G. Jayaram, mimeograph, undated.



- 41 -
using a shadow exchange rate (SER) to translate foreign exchange costs and
earnings into local market prices, a standard conversion factor (SCF) has
been applied to domestic market prices in order to translate them into border
prices.
6.09      Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  To take into account protection
provided by tariffs and trade restrictions, a SCF is applied to the price of
non-traded goods and to consumption. In the absence of trade restrictions,
the SCF can be approximately calculated using the formula:
SCF             X + M
X + S  + M + T
x        m  1/
This calculation gives a SCF = 0.86.  However, since this estimate does not
take into consideration quantitative restrictions, it provides only an upper
limit for the SCF. The Indian Planning Commission recommends the use of con-
version factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods that implicitly
give a SCF of about 0.75. Because of the approximate nature of this estimate
a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis.
6.10      Economic Price of Agricultural Outputs and Inputs.  The future eco-
nomic prices of fertilizers and the major traded agricultural products such
as rice, wheat, cotton and groundnuts, are derived from the Bank's projected
1985 world market prices expressed in January 1978 currency values with adjust-
ments for freight, handling and processing. Border prices are multiplied
by the official exchange rate (OER) and the domestic cost components (i.e.,
local transport and marketing charges) are adjusted by the SCF. The economic
price of non-traded foodgrains, such as bajra, is calculated by multiplying
the historical local price ratio of bajra to rice by the economic price of
rice. Similarly, the economic price of non-traded oil crops has been derived
from the economic price of groundnuts. The financial price of bullocks and
miscellaneous charges have been multiplied by the SCF to express them in
economic prices. Pesticides and insecticides are assumed to be traded goods
and their prices adjusted by the SCF.
6.11      Shadow Wage Rate for Farm Labor.  Because of the paucity of avail-
able data, calculation of shadow wage rates for farm labor is necessarily
subjective. On the basis of available information from the UKS area and
experience from similar areas elsewhere, it is postulated that the marginal
opportunity cost of farm labor can be represented by an "S shaped" curve.
Under this assumption, the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive
at all levels of demand and increases when more labor is absorbed into field
work. Also, the increase in opportunity cost is initially slow, reflecting
scarcity of alternative productive employment, with the rate of increase
growing as labor becomes more fully utilized. At employment levels above the
maximum labor availability, the opportunity cost would increase at a slower
rate since the high wage rate would attract a large number of migrants from
the nearby rainfed area. The estimated average shadow wage rate is Rs 2.4.
1/   X = fob value of exports at the official exchange rate (OER); M = cif
-  value of imports at OER; S = export subsidies; T  = import duties.



- 42 -
6.12      Construction Conversion Factor (CCF).  Under UKS irrigation infra-
structure, roads and on-farm works would be constructed using a mixture of
equipment, skilled and unskilled labor. For the economic analysis, the CCF
is estimated as follows:
(a) Traded Component. This component includes capital-intensive
works which require imported materials. Since it is traded,
the conversion factor is 1.00. It is estimated that about
10% of the construction costs fall under this category.
(b) Non-Traded Component. This component includes works that
require skilled labor and locally manufactured materials.
The SCF of 0.80 is used as the conversion factor for these
works. About 30% of the construction costs are included
in this category.
(c) Unskilled Labor. As a result of minimum wage legislation,
which is relatively strictly enforced, construction labor
earns a daily wage of Rs 4.25. A similar minimum wage is
applied to farm labor, but for all practical purposes it
cannot be enforced. Thus, the average wage during the
slack agricultural season is only about half of the mini-
mum wage. Civil works construction is harder physical
work than farming, and experience from similar areas in
India indicate that the laborers require a premium of
25%-30% to shift from agriculture to construction work.
Thus, the opportunity cost of construction labor is esti-
mated at Rs 3.25 in financial terms and Rs 2.6 in economic
terms, giving a conversion factor for construction labor
of 0.6. It is estimated that payments for this category
comprise about 60% of construction costs.
Conversion Factor
Traded Items                  1.00
Non-traded Items              0.80
Unskilled Labor              0.60
Construction Costs            0.70
(weighted average)
6.1.3     Land Acquisition and Resettlement.  UKS costs include cost of
resettling families from villages submerged by the reservoirs. The total
number of villages affected is 146; 77 submerged by the construction of the
Narayanpur reservoir and 69 by completion of the Almatti Dam. The economic
cost of resettlement (Rs 108 M) is calculated by multiplying the financial
cost by the construction conversion factor (CCF). Where the cost of land
acquisition is concerned, the real cost to society is the opportunity cost,
that is, the production foregone by the submersion of the lands and lands
acquired for the construction of the distribution system (approximately 78,600
ha). The per ha value of production in the future "without UKS" situation was
taken to represent this opportunity cost and deducted from the benefit stream.



- 43 -
Economic Evaluation of UKS
6.14      Civil Works Costs.  For the basic economic analysis of UKS, the
financial cost of civil works and resettlement is multiplied by the CCF
to obtain the economic cost. The estimated cost of the civil works is as
follows:  dams ./ (Rs 642 M); canals and distribution system (Rs 1,608 M);
field channels (Rs 303 M); on-farm works (Rs 611 M) and roads (Rs 276 M).
These estimates include physical contingencies and administrative overheads,
but exclude both price contingencies and land acquisition costs. Annual O&M
costs are estimated at Rs 105 per ha. This consists of Rs 70 per ha for the
O&M of project facilities and an imputed value of Rs 35 per ha for the main-
tenance of field channels and drains by farmers. This was multiplied by the
SCF to express it in border prices.
6.15      Economic Rate of Return.  Discounting costs and benefits over a 50
year period, the economic rate of return for investments in UKS is estimated
at 16%.
Evaluation of DesiAn Alternatives for UKS
6.16      Traditionally, irrigation systems in most of India have been unlined
and designed to supply water through outlets serving 40 ha blocks. Farmers
have been expected to construct field channels within blocks, but these have
normally been of poor quality. The result has been excessive water losses
and unreliable supplies for the individual farm. Under these circumstances,
farmers, being risk minimizers, tend to go for low technology packages since
they assume that they will not get assured irrigation water.
6.17      UKS has been designed to provide a reliable water supply to as many
farmers as possible, i.e. with minimum losses in the conveyance system. As a
result of lined canals and field channels and with proper land shaping, it
is estimated that overall project efficiency would increase from 27% to 46%.
Since water supply to UKS is limited to 113 TMC, the result of these water
saving measures would enable an expansion of the irrigated area from 252,000
ha to 425,000 ha. Furthermore, landshaping would facilitate proper application
of water at field level, field drains would reduce the risk of water logging,
and lined/stabilized minors and field channels would make the water supply to
the field more reliable. The effect of these design improvement would be an
increased use of high yielding varieties and cash inputs, such as fertilizers.
6.18      However, design and implementation of on-farm works is a time-
consuming process, and a system built to lower design standards could be
implemented more rapidly. These and other assumptions used for evaluation
of design improvements introduced under the project are summarized below. The
different design alternatives are mutually exclusive and, thus, are evaluated
through a comparison of the discounted net present value (NPV).
1/   Including sunk costs.



-44 -
Base        --------Alternatives-----------
Case            1             2           3
Canals                           Lined       Unlined       Unlined      Unlined
Field channels                   Lined       Lined         Lined        Unlined
Land shaping                      Yes         Yes          No           No
Conveyance efficiency (ec)        0.70          0.60        0.60         0.60
Field ditch efficiency (efd)   (0.90)          (0.90)       (0.90)      (0.75)
Field application
efficiency (efa)               (0.70)        (0.70)      (0.60)       (0.60)
Field efficiency (ef=efd*efa)   0.65            0.65         0.55        0.45
Project efficiency (ep=ec*ef)   0.46            0.39        0.33         0.27
Benefits per ha (Rs/ha)           3,850         3,850        3,560       2,480
Total area Irrigated
(ha)                     425,000       364,000      308,000     252,000
NPV at 10% (Rs M)                 3,760         3,270        2,510          590
NPV at 12% (Rs M)                 1,980         1,700        1,220        -160
NPV at 14% (Rs M)                   780           620          320        -700
6.19      The opportunity cost of capital in India is estimated to be between
10% and 14%. 1/ As can be seen above, the proposed design for UKS gives the
highest NPV for all interest rates in this range. Moreover, this design of
UKS would also benefit the largest number of farmers, give the highest in-
crease in foodgrain production, and the most extensive indirect employment
effects.
Economic Evaluation of Field Channels and On-farm Development
in Ghataprabha and Malaprabha
6.20      On-Farm Benefits.  The construction of field channels and on-farm
development would result in both higher yields and increased irrigation effi-
ciencies in the areas. As a result of the project, it is estimated that
yields of irrigated crops would increase about 30%. At full development,
this means an increase in farmer's benefits of about Rs 1,370 per ha.
6.21      External Benefits.  Without on-farm development, field efficiency
would be around 0.45, whereas it would increase to 0.65 with on-farm works.
This would result in substantial water savings. Since cropping intensities
are constrained by the limited supply of irrigation water, the water saved
would be used for more intensive cultivation. The productive value of water
saved depends on the level of on-farm development in areas where it would be
used.  Under UKS conditions, the average field water requirements are esti-
mated to be about 4,600 m per ha. The net value of production is estimated
at about Rs 3,850 per ha at full development. This gives an opportunity cost
of water of about Rs 0.84 per cubic meter.  However, without field channels
and on-farm development, the estimated water requirements is 6,600 m per ha
and the net value of production Rs 2,480 per ha. This gives an opportunity
1/   The Planning Commission uses an opportunity cost of 12% for evaluation
of industrial projects.



- 45 -
cost of water of Rs 0.38 per cubic meter. The value of water saved would
thus be in the range Rs 0.38 - Rs 0.84 per cubic meter. Conservatively,
Rs 0.4 per cubic meter has been used f 5r the analysis. The actual water
savings are estimated at about 2,000 m per ha, and thus, the benefits of
the water saved would amount to Rs 800 per ha. Given these assumptions,
the economic rate of return is estimated at about 45%.
Sensitivity Analyses and Project Risk
6.22      Under UKS, sufficient water would be provided for the proposed crop-
ping pattern. Thus, the risk associated with water supply is limited. The
following sensitivity analyses illustrates the risks associated with other
factors:
Rate of Return
(a)  Basic case (425,000 ha developed)                   16%
(b) If GOK does not continue with the
development of UKS, once the IDA
assisted four year project is
completed                                           10%
(c)  Assuming the SCF = 1.0                              14%
(d)  Construction costs increase by 15%                  15%
(e)  Decrease in projected crop yields by 15%            13%
(f)  Decrease in output prices by 25%                    13%
(g)  Full benefits reached 10 years later                12%
(h) If the proposed statewide extension
program is not implemented                          13%
(i)  A combination of (d) and (e)                        12%
(j)  A combination of (d), (e) and (f)                   10%



- 46 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement on the following points have been reached with GOI
that:
(a)  the proceeds of the credit, except disbursements for on-farm
works would be channeled to GOK in accordance with GOI's stan-
dard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India (para 3.56).
(b)  disbursements for on-farm works would be made available to
ARDC (para 3.56); and
(c)  ARDC would require the lending banks participating in the
project to maintain separate accounts for project lending
and would ensure that the annual audited accounts of such
banks would be submitted to the Bank within four months
of the end of their fiscal year, together with a statement
of project lending for such banks certified by ARDC
(para 3.64).
7.02      Agreements have been reached with GOK that it shall:
(a)  allocate, to the extent possible, land suitable for
cultivation to the farmers resettled from the Almatti
and Narayanpur reservoir areas (para 3.14);
(b)  make water available from its share of the river Krishna
in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of
the projected cropping patterns (para 3.17);
(c)  in respect of the roads constructed under the project,
prior to undertaking any construction, prepare and
furnish to IDA for its comments, a detailed layout
plan for the roads (para 3.34);
(d)  promptly after completion of the project, prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, on the execution
and initial operation of the project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it (para 3.51);
(e)  complete the UKS as early as technically and financially
feasible (para 3.56);
(f)  cause the accounts and financial statements of the PWD,
AD and CAD departments to be submitted to the Bank within
twelve months after the end of each fiscal year (para 3.63);



- 47 -
(g)  promptly take necessary measures to minimize the hazards
of malaria and other water-related diseases in the
project area (para 3.65);
(h)  ensure compulsory land development (para 4.12);
(i)  in consultation with the Association, strengthen its
extension services in the area covered by the Project
(para 4.18);
(j)  under arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
cause the dams and spillways constructed under the
project to be periodically inspected in accordance with
sound engineering practices in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of
such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which
may endanger their safety (para 4.23);
(k)  provide adequate funds at all times to operate and
maintain, in accordance with sound engineering standards,
the facilities completed under the project (para 4.24);
(1)  prior to bringing any area covered by the Project
under irrigation, prepare a water allocation plan based
on the cropping pattern for each area commanded by a
distributary (para 4.27);
(m)  make arrangements for a systematic assessment and
collection of a Betterment Levy in the area covered by
the Project (para 5.22); and
(n)  review and, if necessary, increase its water and water-
related charges in the area covered by the project
from time to time with the objectives of collecting full
operational and maintenance cost and, to the extent
possible, cost of infrastructure investment, having
regard, inter alia, for the incentives and repayment
capacity of farmers in the area covered by the project
(para 5.22).
7.03      Conditions of credit disbursements for the on-farm works
would be that:
(a)  evidence satisfactory to the Association has been
furnished to the Association that the financial arrange-
ments between GOK and ARDC to perform the on-farm works
have been made (para 3.59);
(b)  the Association has received a detailed training program
for the land development staff to be trained at the Land
Development Center (para 3.59);



- 48 -
(c) the Association has received a Banking Plan, satisfactory
to the Association, for the purpose of improving the
availability of short and long-term institutional credit
in UKS (para 4.21).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions of credit disbursement,
the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$126 million
on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the Government of India.
March 15, 1978



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatological Factors Relating to                         Latitude:  16l12'N
Estimation of Crop Water Requirements                        Longitude: 77021'E
(at Raichur)
Elevation: 400 meters
Item                   Jan.  Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July    Aug.  Sept.  Oct.    Nov.  Dec.    Total
A. MEASURED VALUES
1. Temperature ('C)
- Average Daily             24.4   26.9  30.2   32.5   33.1   29.6   27.5    27.4   27.2  27.1   25.1   23.6    27.9
- Maximum Average           30.2   33.2  36.6   38.7   39.6   35.1   32.0    31.9   31.6  31.7   30.1   29.1    33.3
- Minimum Average           18.5   20.5  23.7   26.2   26.5   24.1   22.9    22.8   22.7  22.5   20.0   18.0    22.4
2. Cloud Cover (oktas)          1.9    1.8   1.8    2.9    3.8    5.5    6.1         5.8    5.5   4.3    3.6    2.4       3.8
est. % of bright hrs.         88      89    89      78     70     53      47      50      53    65      71      83      70      -
sunshine                                                -      --
3. Relative Humidity (X)         48      42    39      42     47      62     69       66     67    60I  53         49      53
4. Wind (Avg. km/hr)-/           6.7    6.6   7.0    7.2   10.2   14.5   15.2    12.7    9.5   6.6    6.7    6.6           9.1
5. Number of rainy days         0.1    0.6   0.4    1.3    2.5    7.1    9.5         8.7    9.0   5.7    1.6    0.2    46.7
6. Rainfall (mm)
- 50% probability (avg)      0.8    6.0   4.1   12.7   28.4  102.9  138.6   135.0  167.5  93.9   24.8    2.6   717.3
- 75% probability            0.7    5.0   3.4   10.5   23.5   85.0  114.5   111.5  138.4  77.6   20.5    2.1   592.5
B. CALCULATED VALUE
7. Water use by                 165    177   217   219    243        209   189       189    165   168    156    157    2254
Reference Crop (ETo)
mm/month                       -
/ Adjusted to 2m from a 12 m gauge height
td1



50                                              ANNEX 1
T-2
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Salient Features of Almatti
and Narayanpur Dams
Almatti Dam                         Narayanpur Dam
Catchment Area                                               35,926    km2                        47,850    km2
Gross Average Natural Flow                                   20,932    Mm3                         23,786    Mm3
Gross Natural Flow at 75% dependability                      17,967    Mm3                         20,416    Mm3
Gross Storage Capacity                                        1,133    Mm3                          1,072    Mm3
Storage at minimum operating level                              340    Nm3                            411    Mm3
Live Storage Capacity                                           974    Mm3                            660    Mm3
Lowest Foundation Level                                         479.96 m                              466.03 m
Lowest River Bed Level                                          488.95 m                              469.94 m
Minimum Operating Level                                         499.88 m                              485.55 m
Full Reservoir Level                                            512.06 m                              492.25 m
Crest Level of Spillway                                         500.06 m                              480.25 m
Top Level of Dam
Earthen Section                                              516.56 m                             497.09 m
Masonry Section                                              515.56 m                             495.75 m
Maximum Area of Water Spread                                    181    km2                            132    km2
Length of Dam
Length of spillway dam                                       486.50 m                              552.00 m
Length of non-spillway dam
(including power blocks)                                    673.30 m                             470.90 m
Earthen dam (including dykes)                                405.00. m                          6,996.00 m
Total length of dam                                        1,564.80 m                           8,018.90 m
Maximum height of dam above the lowest
foundation level                                                39    m                              31    m
Height of Dam above the lowest river
bed level                                                       27    m                              26    m
Top width of Dam                                                  7.50 m                                7.50 m
Desi'                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~3                         3
Design Flood                                                 40,100 m /sec                        43,300 m /sec
No. and size of spillway gates                           26 Nos. of 15 m x 12 m               30 Nos. of 15 m x 12 m
(Radial type)                         (Radial type)
Number and size of river sluices                          6 Nos 2.5 m x 4.25 m                 8 Nos 1.5 m x 2.5 m
Details of submergence
Total area of submergence                                 25,200    ha                         15,700    ha
Villages Submerged                                            69    No.                            77    No.
Houses affected                                            8,685    No.                         9,625    No.
Population affected    -                                  43,425    No.                        28,125    No.



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Irrigation Water Requirements
(at 75% probable precipitation)
Crop                              Jan.    Feb.    Mar.   Apr.   May   June    July  | Aug.   | Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.                 Total            Area    Voluse
Net    Gross 2/       (ha)      (Mm
(rn---- -----------                                     /ha)  /------------------
1.  Paddy                                                                  310   1,265   1,860    845         240                     4,520    6,460         7,650       49.4
2.  Jowar Kharif                                                         1,035      370   1,025                                       2,430    3,470        80,325      278.6
3.  Jowar Ratton                                                         1,030      360   1,340    890    1,500   1,790        140   7,050   10,070         11,475      115.5
4.  Maize                                                                1,035      315   1,325    385                                3,060    4,370        45,900      200.5
5.  Bajras                                                                 340      240     945      15                               1,540    2,200        30,600       67.3
6.  Groundnuts                                                           1,035      135     800    280                                2,250    3,220        53,550      172.3
7.  Chillies                                                               340       55     555    945    1,160         95            3,150    4,500        11,475       51.8
8.  Cotton                          635                                    170       90     400    650    1,700   2,370   2,215   8,230   11,750            76,500      899.3
9.  Jowar Rabi                    1,190                                                                       605   1,880   2,415   6,090    8,700          45,900      399.4
10.  Wheat Rabi                    2,720   2,290                                                                        600   2,020   7,630   10,900         30,600      333.3
11.  Safflower                     2,700   1,400                                                                90   1,090   2,170   7,450   10,640          11,475      122.1
12.  Gram                          2,190      310                                                               90   1,190   2,290   6,070    8,670          11,475       99.5
Total Required41,2                                                                                                                                               278.
(Mm3)                                                                                                                                             416,925   2,789.0
-at pipe outlet 1/             243      90                            228      80      284    111        190     332      394   1,952
-at   point   of__ _ __ _ _ _                                                                 _ _  __ _ _ _
supply 2/, 3/, 4/             347     129                            325     114      406    158       272      474      564              2,789
1/  Estimated by modified Perman method; with deduction of effective rainfall, and including losses beyond the pipe outlet (35% for field crops, 20% for paddy).
2/  Assuming 30% conveyance and operational losses from headworks to pipe outlets.
3/  A 17% allowance for peaking in a critical ten-day period in December increases the supply to 246 m3/sec, or 0.58 1/sec/ha on an area of 425,000 ha.                                        t'1x
4/  Cumulative demand in the Kharif season (June-Oct.) is 1,273 Mm3, in the Rabi season (Nov.-Feb.) 1,516 Mm3.



52                                                        ANNEX 1
T-4
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local     Foreign       Total         Local    Foreign    Total         Exchange
-- (Rs million)-                      ---(USs million)-----          Z
1. Almatti Dam
Civil Works                                     157.0       52.4        209.4         18.3        6 .1      24.4          25
Land Acquisition and Compensation                26.7        -           26.7          3.1        -          3.1            0
Village Centers                                   4.4        0.2          4.6          0.5        -          0.5            5
Sub-total (1)                                188.1        52.6        240.7         21.9        6.1       28.0          22
2. Narayanpur Dam
Civil Works                                      68.0       17.0         85.0          7.9        2.0        9.9           20
Land Acquisition and Compensation               126.9        -          126.9         14.7        -         14.7            0
Village Centers                                   1.5        0.1          1.6          0.2        -          0.2            5
Sub-total (2)                                196.4       .17.1        213.5         22.8        2.0       24.8           8
3.  Irrigation and Drainage Systems
Narayanpur Left Bank Canal                      171.8       35.2        207.0         20.0        4.1       24.1          17
'e... Rajankollur Tunnel                            99.5       53.5        153.0          11.6        6.2       17.8          35
Gundalgeri Tunnel                                45.5       24.5         70.0          5.3        2.9        8.2          35
Shahapur Branch Canal                           100.0       20.5        120.5         11.6        2.4       14.0          17
Distribution System                             113.3       23.2        136.5         13.1        2.7       15.8           17
Drainage System                                  37.8        4.2         42.0          4.4        0.5        4.9           10
Buildings                                        44.8        7.9         52.7          5.2        0.9        6.1           15
Sub-total (3)                                612.7      169.0         781.7         71.2       19.7       90.9          22
4.  Village Roads                                      66.6       11.8         78.4           7.7        1.4        9.1          15
5. Land Development
Upper Krishna Scheme
Aerial Photography and Mapping                  4.8        2.1          6.9          0.6        0.2        0.8           30
Field Irrigation Channels                      60.1        6.7         66.8          7.0        0.8        7.8          10
Field Drainage Channels                         4.5        0.5          5.0          0.5        0.1        0.6          10
Land Shaping                                   25.3        8.5         33.8          2.9        1.0        3.9          25
Buildings                                       3.0        0.5          3.5          0.4        0.1        0.5          15
Malaprabha Project                                55.6        9.8         65.4          6.4        1.1        7.5           15
Ghataprabha Project                               10.2        1.8         12.0          1.2        0.2        1.4           15
Sub-total (5)                                163.5       29.9         193.4         19.0        3.5       22.5          15
6.  Equipment and Services                             24.5       12.0         36.5           2.8        1.4        4.2          33
7.  Project Monitoring                                  2.3        -            2.3           0.3       -           0.3          -
8.  Agricultural Supporting Services                   29.8        3.7          33.5         .3.5        0.4        3.9          11
Total (1) - (8)                            1,283.9      296.1       1,580.0        149.2       34.5      183.7          19
9.  Engineering, Supervision and
Administration                                  206.1       47.2        253.3         24.0        5.5       29.5           19
Base Cost                                  1,490.0       343.3      1,833.3        173.2       40.0      213.2
10.  Physical Contingencies                            149.2        35.5        184.7         17.4        4.1       21.5          19
11.  Price escalation                                   346.3       81.1        427.4         40.3        9.4       49.7
1,985.5      459.9      2,445.4        230.9       53.5      284.4           19



53
ANNEX 1
T-5
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment and Services for Implementation, Operation
and Maintenance, and Project Monitoring
(Cost Estimates)
1.  Equipment for Implementation          No. of    Unit Cost    Total Cost
Units      ('000 Rs)    ('000 Rs)
(a) Road Construction Equipment
Road Rollers(8-10 ton, diesel)   20            150          3000
Dump Trucks (6-8 cuyd; diesel)   20            150          3000
Pick-up Truck (1 ton; 4 wheel
drive diesel)       1           70           70
Water Tankers (10 ton; diesel)    9            150          1350
Jeeps (4 wheel drive; diesel)    14             55           770
Automobile                          1           40            40
Stone Crushers                      3          120           360
Concrete Mixers (diesel)            9           10            90
Concrete Mixers (hand powered)   18            1.5            27
Water Pumps                        30            5           150
Workshop Tools & Equipment                     L.S           500
Office & Field Survey Equipment                L.S           420
Spares (15%)                                                1423
Sub-total (a) 11,200
(b) Drawing Office Equipment             16 sets      45           720
(c) Laboratory Equipment for
Quality Control                     4 sets    180            720
(d) Surveying Equipment
Theodolites (T3)                    6           90           540
Precision Levels                   12           10           120
(e) Instrumentation for Dams                                       125
Total 1         13,425



54
ANNEX 1
T- 5
Page 2
2. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Dumps Trucks (6/8 cuyd)               10          150          1500
Graders (60-75 HP)                     5          270          1350
Bulldozers (D7)                        5          700          3500
Backhoes (0.75 - lcuyd)                5         1000          5000
Road rollers                           5          150           750
Communication Equipment              L.S.                      1800
Jeeps                                 15           55           750
MQtorcycles                           30            8           240
Cycles                               240            0.5         120
Spares                                                         2000
Total 2          17010
3.  Project Monitoring
(a) Personnel
PWD                           L.S.                        440
Karnataka University
of Agricultural Science    L.S.                       1,760
Sub-total (a)  2,200
(b) Equipment
Automatic Water Level
Recorders                  50            2           100
Raingauges                      5             1             5
Sub-total (b)    105
Total 3         2,305
4.  Design Flood Studies                                               615
5. Soil Testing Program for
Canal Lining in Black. L.S.                                     800
Cotton Soils
Total 1-5      34,155
Contingencies (10%)           3,415
Total          37,570



55                                ANNEX 1
T-6
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates of CADA Organization
(in '000 Rs)
1. CADA Headquarters & Housing
Administrative Wing                                                670
Engineering Wing                                                 1,150
Cooperative Wing                                                   890
Training Center for Land Development                               790
Total 1                                                    3,500
2. Equipment & Vehicles
a. Administrative Wing
Car (1)                                                        40
Jeep (1)                                                        55
Office Equipment                                               25
Spares                                                          15
Total a                                                      135
1. Engineering Wing
Car (1)
Jeeps (25)                                                  1,375
Motorcycles (50)                                              400
Drawing Office Equipment & Supplies                             45
Surveying Instruments                                         200
Spares                                                        275
Total b                                                    2,335
c. Cooperative Wing
Car (1)                                                        40
Jeeps (2)                                                     110
Motorcycles (4)                                                32
Spares                                                         28
Total c                                                      210
Total 2                                                    2,680
3. Training Center for Land Development
a. Capital Costs
Drawing Office Equipment & Supplies                            so
Audio-Visual Aids, Textbooks, etc.                             25
35 HP Wheel Tractor                                            55
Trailer                                                        12
45 HP Tractor                                                  65
Disc Plough                                                     7
Multipurpose Blade                                              4
Bucket Scraper 1.5 cum                                         65
90 HP Bulldozer                                               450
Ripper                                                         70
Workship Equipment                                            100
Mini-bus                                                       75
Jeeps (2)                                                     110
Spares                                                        127
Total a                                                    1,215
b.  Operating Costs (1978/79 -  1981/82)
Salaries                                                      280
Operating Expenses                                            485
Total b                                                      765
Total 3                                                    1,980
Total 1+2+3                                             8,160
Contingencies (10%)                                       820
TOTAL                                               8,980



56                                 ANNEX 1
T-7
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates of Agricultural Supporting Services 1/
(in '000 Rs)
1. Buildings and Development
Land Acquisition                                   1,975
Development Expenditure                          12,397
Office/Laboratory                                 1,410
Farm Buildings                                       472
Staff Housing                                     3,530
Miscellaneous Buildings                              345
Total 1                                        20,129
2. Vehicles and Equipment
Van (1)                                               65
Jeeps (5)                                           275
Omnibus (1)                                           90
Tractors (3)                                         300
Farm Machinery                                       631
Office Equipment                                     360
Laboratory Equipment                                 550
Miscellaneous Equipment                              317
Spares                                              388
Total 2                                         2,976
3. Operating Costs
Salaries                                          6,925
Total 1+2+3                                    30,375
4.  Contingencies                                        3,025
TOTAL                                          33,400
1/ Includes Agricultural Research and Development Center (Agricultural
Research Station, Agricultural Development Center, Agricultural
School and Seed Farm); Pilot Project; and Soil testing laboratory-
additional equipment.



ANNEX 1
T-8
57
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(in million US$)
Total
Cost     1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Almatti & Narayanpur Dams            52.8       15.1       16.3       7.4        7.0        7.0
Irrigation, Drainage &
Road Systems                      100.0        6.1      17.9       26.3       25.5      24.2
Land Development                     22.5        2.0        4.2       4.6        4.7        7.0
Sub-total                         175.3       23.2      38.4       38.3       37.2      38.2
Physical Contingencies               21.0        2.8        4.6       4.6        4.5        4.5
Engineering, Supervision
and Administration                 29.5        3.9       6.5        6.5        6.2        6.4
Sub-total                         225.8       29.9      49.5       49.4       47.9      49.1
Expected Price Increases             48.1        1.2        5.9       9.9       13.4       17.7
Sub-total                         273.9       31.1      55.4       59.3       61.3      66.8
Services & Equipment                  5.0        1.3        1.1       0.8        0.8        1.0
Expected Price Increases              1.0        0.0        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.4
Sub-total                           6.0        1.3       1.3        1.0        1.0        1.4
Agricultural Services                 3.9        1.0        1.0       0.7        0.6        0.6
Expected Price Increases              0.6        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.2
Sub-total                           4.5        1.1       1.1        0.8        0.7        0.8
TOTAL                             284.4       33.5      57.8       61.1      ,63.0       69.0
(Eligible for IDA Financing)       (251.7)    (10.8)    (50.0)    (58.9)    (63.0)    (69.0)



ANNEX 1
T-9
58
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Proposed Allocation           % of Expenditure
Category                                         of the Credit               to be financed
(US$ million Equivalent)
(1) Civil Works
(a) On-farm works                                7.0                   55% of ARDC's
refinance
(b) Other Civil Works                          108.0                    70% of cost
(2)  Equipment & Vehicles                             5.1
(a) Directly imported goods                                            100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally manufactured goods                                         100% of ex-factory
costs
(c) Imported goods procured
locally                                                                  70%
(3)  Unallocated                                      5.9
Total                                     126.0



ANNEX 1
T-10
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year
and Semester
Semester            Cumulative
1979/80
1st                              4.0 (0.1) 1/           4.0 (0.1)
2nd                              8.0 (0.3)             12.0 (0.4)
1980/81
1st                             12.0 (0.5)             24.0 (0.9)
2nd                             14.0 (0.8)             38.0 (1.7)
1981/82
lst                             15.0 (0.8)             53.0 (2.5)
2nd                             16.0 (0.8)             69.0 (3.3)
1982/83
lst                             16.0 (0.9)             85.0 (4.2)
2nd                             16.0 (1.0)            101.0 (5.2)
1983/84
1st                             15.0 (1.0)            116.0 (6.2)
2nd                             10.0 (0.8)            126.0 (7.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses show estimated disbursements for on-farm
development.



CC  .4.4           N      N     O      O     U           -~~~ANNX 
S~~~~~~ Cr                                                                          N     N_ 4         0_o0_ U                 0
o-l   ,,       ,    ,    ,    ,40. IN IN      I    ,4 ,                                                                                          Uc 
-I ~            ~             0                      N                  s -                        o°N.       _    H .                 o
°|        ~~~                           -            ,-         - N    -  000  .           4       .4    N o            C              U 
i1~~~~~~~~ ~ '' ' ' ' ' '       s     a     ^    e      o      a      -             g N       C         N |             U 
S~~                                   ~~       C O         O    C0      00.4 o0                       N    N     N           C  F _ _ X      
0                                 CC       0    0    r    0       E 0   D N    C b 004      0    C        C    Ns    C        0D    0 
-{| ~       ~         ~           N U           C                .4 A44 O                  .O{     i V    _v   i 0  .0     0U_=i = 
01 0 SC                                       C    C C1  Cs           N    C     04.0          4    4        .4   .0   .          C
olN oO    00oo00oN N.4oC No o  oo    N                                                                     N N o                 eo
N                                                                                                                                                U        
-s ~       ~          0       01 01 Ns          0                          N N N.4N N.4                             .0       C    0,     N       ,    Ns
.9~   ~ ~ ~ . . _                            N                         N                            00                     0  4  4    40    1
C    C C                       .4    N    N1 _N                                                                         =          =0.            = 4    4 U
CI    00 01                      0    0                                                     ' 0           ' 0    0  000            - O .4U
I      N-   °.0    0    N                       '                N '    'U                                           N '4    C '4    N    
N,   0°        x                                                                                             N          N               0        U
-lN I  .0    0    
.40    4                     .0..                .     .    ,     ....  ,     ,    .                      N           N             N         .0
Nlo                                                      ,,,,  ,,',U...   ,O  
-|Uo,,,,, ,,,,,,,,  .4                                                                                                                                C   Ns
00            °°                                                                                                     °           °4            ° .4      C
010 °                                                                                                                                0        
c1~~~~~~ 0° 0°                                                                                                           0 ' °
4 1                                                                                                                                                U;@@,    -=^-N"        
.1    0     =                                                         0                                 
01S    00    0    0             XO   C            ),       0    U           0 *0.-                    0 C           4 N0;0B~°                C    C  
s     4   4-_la =i SaS< S.- s UD                                                               .    . 4  Ug U                              U
U                                       04 *      8.c         40o   Uo= N U 0:         0                 00          004                         U   1 !    ,    
>I      NU    0                    al f ,,             UUO ,,           0    U      00      4 _U                  U             000  W~__ 



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organizational Requirements
State Fiscal year                78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93
PWD
Chief Engineer                2       2      2     2      2      2     2
Dam Circles                    2      2      2      1     1      1      1
Canal Circles                 3       6      7      7     6      6     6      6      6     6      6
Road Circle                    1      1      1      1     1      1      1     1      1     1      1
Total No. of Circles        6       9    10      9      8      8     8      7      7     7      7
Dam Divisions                  7      7      5      5     2      2      2
Canal Divisions              13      32    38    37    32    36    36    34    34    31    31                                         H
Roads Divisions                3      3      3      3     4      5      5     5      5     5      5
Rehabilitation Division        1      1      1      1     1      1      1
Quality Control Divisions   3         3      4      4     4      4      4     4      4      4     4
Mechanical Divisions           3      3      3      3     3      3      3     3      3      3     3
Total No. of Divisions  30        49    54    53    46    51    51    46    46    43    43
CADA Engineering Wing
Circles (including
Design Office)        1      1      1      1     2    2        2     2      2      2     2      2      1      1
Divisions (Drainage Channels 1         1      2     3      4    6       8    10    10    10    10    10    10    10
and Land Shaping)
Divisions (Irrigation          1       2      3     4      4    5       5      5     5      5      5      5    -      -
Channels)
Total No. of Divisions       2       3     5      7      8   11      13    15    15    15    15    15    10    10



62                           ANNEX 1
T-13
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Crop Budget at Full Development
Yield      Gross    Labor      Awimal   Others    Total        Net
Crop               (ton/ha)    Value               --- Rs ha --------    Inputs    Value
Kharif
Sorghum              3.6        5,976      440        144        742       1,326    4,650
Maize                4.0        5,600      450        144        863       1,457    4,143
Pearl Millet         3.0        4,560      395        144        640       1,179    3,381
Groundnuts           2.2        5,830      500        208        864       1,572    4,258
Chillies             1.0        8,000   1,000         224      1,291       2,515    5,485
Pulses               0.6        1,705      220         72         80         372    1,333
Paddy                3.8        5,320      755        320      1,112       2,187    3,133
Rabi
Sorghum              3.2        5,312      410        136        640       1,186    4,126
Sorghum Ratoon       3.0        4,980      255         64        315         634    4,346
Wheat                 1.8       3,636      365        128        748       1,241    2,395
Gram                 0.8        1,936      340        120        497         957       979
Safflower            1.0        2,630      355        120        530       1,005    1,625
Bi-seasonal
Seed Cotton          2.0       10,600      770        200      1,624       2,594    8,006
1/ Unshelled



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements
---------- Sorghum  (Kharif) -----------_             --------Maize (Kharif) --------             ------Pearl Millet (Kharif)                           -----Pigeon Pea (Rharif)-----
Rainfed                  Irrigated                Rainfed            Irrigated                    Rainfed                 Irrigated                     Rainfed           Irrigated
P         W      W       W1        W2       W3        p   W   W       WI      W2         3        P        W                          2     W3                          W    WI  W2   3
Yield (Tons/ha)                             .5       .75   -         2.7      3.2      3.6      -   -   -          3      3.6      4          .3       .6    -        2.3       2.7      3          .4        .6    -     -
Annual Family and Hired Labor
(Man-days per ha)
Land Preparation                         12       12       -        15       15       15        -   -   -         15    15        15        12       12      -       15        15       15        12       12      -      -   _   -
Sowing/Planting                           7        7       -         7        7        7         -   -   -         7      7        7         7        7      -         7        7        7         7        7
Crop Management                          12       12       -       27        27       27         -   _   _        27     27       27        12       12      -       27        27       27        12       12      -      -
Harvesting/Threshing/Marketing           19       21       -       32        36       39        -   -   -         33     38       41        16       18      -       26        29       30        17       17      -      -   _   _
Sub-total (md/ha)                     50       52       -       81       85        88        -   -   -        82      87       90       47       49       -       75       78        79       48        48      -      -
Rs/ha                   150      156        -     405       425      440         -   -   -       410   435       450       141      147      -      375       390      395       144      144
Fertilizers and Pesticides
N  (kg/ha)                             5        5       -       70        75       80        -   -   -         90     95      100        -         -      -       50        55       60         -        -      -      -                   CJ
(Rs/ha)                           18.5     18.5    -       350       375      400         -   -   -       450   475       500         -        -      -      250       275      300         -        -              -   -   _
P  (kg/ha)                             -         -      -       20       25        30        -   -   -         30     35       40        -         -      -       20        25       30         -        -
(Rs/ha)                            -          -      -       86      108      129         -               129    150      172         -        -               86      108      129
K  (kg/ha)                             -         -      -        -        _-                         -        -             -        -       -                     0 _  _  _  _ 
(Rs/ha)                                                                              -         -      -        -        -         -             -           -         -     -
Agro-chelicals (Rs/ha)                    -          -      -       50       55       60         -   -   -        50    55         60        -        -       -       50       55        60
Other inputs
Animal power (ad/ha)                  14        14      -       17        18       18        -   -   -         17     18       18        14       14      _       17        18       18        14       14
(Rs/ha)               112       112      -      136      144       144        -   _   -        136   144       144      112       112      -      136       144      144      112       112
Seed          (kg/ha)                  5         5      -       10       10        10        -   _   _         16    16        16         3        3      -        8         8        8        12       12
(Rs/ha)                35        35      -       70        70       70        -   -   -         48    48        48        21       21      -       56        56       56        48       48
Miscellaneous (Rs/ha)                 30        35      -       80        85       95        -   -   -         70     75       85        25       25      _        80       85       95        25       25
Note:  P  = Present
= Future without project
*  = Future with project                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
N  = Future with irrigation infrastructure and improved agricultural extension
1 
W2 = W1 plns field channels
W3 = W2 plus land shaping



KARNATAKIA IRRIG2ATION PROjEIc
Crop Tsput Requirement
--- ~..dents (Kh.rif) -----t---hillirs-  (Ido-if)                                                    Nines----  .1.  (Kh-sif)---- ---- Paddy (Kh-nif)-                               namers- S..   (Khrif)-----    -Minor Millets  (lOhftf)-
tainfed                 -ig.tnerd            Rinifrd             Irriented                      Rainfed            I-rionted      aRided           Irigetod                     Ri.ifed        Irrigated             hinted           meisated
P       is    I      Idj      02      WI3       P9        w    WI      02       143          P        14      0      W10203         P014w    WI           W2      03          P        w     w W 14     12  3       P        v     v W     20
Yinld (ton../h.)                              .4      .4-          1.5      1.9     2.2      .   .-           .0      .9        1           .3      .5       .4                         h- -   -3.2         3.8         .25       .4          ---             .35       .5 -~
Ae..saI fmily and Hired Leb-
(man-days p-e ha)
Land Porea-nie                            12       12     -      15       15      15        ---           25      25         25         10       10      ii--                          --     35  33         35         20        10     -           -        10        15 
Onelng/Planring                 ~~12     12     -      17       17      17                      50 - s   50        55          7        7       7---                 ---            32   32       32          7         7     -7,                             7     -
c-np hsngnmri                              15       15     -      30       30      30        ---           so      50         55         10      10       10---                 ---           34    34       35         15        ii     -                   10        10      -
H-tvesieg/Thrrahing/M-rketing              18       22     -      33       36      38       -  -  -        62       62        70         13       15      17---                  ---          40   43        49         12        14        - -.-  -          14        16     -     ---
SbR-tin1  (md/ha)                       57      59     -      95       98     100        -   --       187      187       500         49       42      44...                  ---          141 144       151         39        41     -      -      --     41        453                              0%
(no/ha)           ~~174    180     -     475      490     500        -  -  -    935        935     1.900         129     126     220---705  720                                     755        117       123      -     -  -  -      123       129     -     ---
Fe-tiliee- and ttratildes
P    (kg/h.)                        - 5          5     -       15      15      20        -   --       115      115        125                                                ---           75   90      100-
(R./a.)                            10.5    29.5-          73      75   200          -   --       325      573       6900                                                ---          375 450       390-
P   (hg/ha)                             15      15     -      25       30      35        -   --        55       55         6030  35                                                                      50-
(Rn/a.)                            65      65     -     100      129     150        -      --    237      237        25501292380    215 
It   (hg/ha)                             I       0     -        5      10      15                      5    5   25         3015  22                                                                      25-
Agro-henirals (R-A-)                        0        0     -      90       95     100       -  -   -      195     195        200 ---                                            ---           90   95       100          - 
other Inuts
dAOi nI p-n    (a/ha)                      29      20      -      24       24      26       -   --         38      20         28          0        a       9----34  40                                        40          8         9     -         -                     0 
(is/ha)           1~~60   160      -     192     192     200        -   --       224      224        524         64      64       72---                 ---          272 320        320         64        64     -     -     -   -    64       64      -
Seed              (hg/ha)                  50      50      -      75      75       75                        .5       .5         .5      20      20       20 ---                              50   50        50         10        10     -            -        3         3     -
(na/ha)        ~       250      250     -      375     375     375        -  -  -       45       45         45         60      60       60----109 100                                      tOO         30        30     -     ---             6         6     -     ---
Mitarllnte-n   (Re/ha)                     60       70     -     115      115     125        -  -  -      160     170        (90         20       20      20---                  ---         150  160       175         20        20     -                     0        20     -     ---
Noes:  P=peee.rtt
W      Ft.in- eithe-t proje-t
W    PFt-re itrh  p-njen
W1-PFatnrewith  i                  i.fgeinn  I t -ornee   ned impra-d agr.itue-s  etnen
W2     01 PI.. field  hasn. ~In
143= -W0 pIne land eheping



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Input Rgeoi-uts
---Sorghum -(R    ----- -  Sorghum  Rtroo  (Rohi) .                  -------Wheat (Rah)  ------                      ------ -   (Robi) -------                        -----Sffl-   (Rohi)                     -Co-------.---a-o,,ott 
Rinufd              Ir-ir-td          Rinufed          Irriourd                 Rolnfed               I-rix.t.d                   aminod               Irrioot.d                  Ranfod               Irploot.d                Rlfi               rIa
P            W     Wg      02    Wj    PO9W             W1      02   03         P        0           81      02       93          P       8            01      02      03         p       w            Wi      02      W,       P             W     0l       02      03
Yipid (t-o/ho)                              .45       .7-        2.4     2.9   3.2  -  -  -         2.3      2.7     3       .35       .5-        1.3     1.6      1.8         .3     .45            .6      .7      .8        .25      .4-          .8       .9     1       .25       .4-         1.5     1.8       2
Aunool porily ord Ht-rd Lbho
(ma-doyu pop ho)
Land Pproproioo                           10       10     -     12      12    12       ---                                 10       10    -      12      12       12        10      10      -     12       12      12        10       10    -      12      12      12      17       17    -      20       20        20
po,iug/pl-otlng                            2        7    -       7       7      7                                  -7         7    -      10      10      10          7       7      -     10       10      10         7        7    -      10      10       10      7        7    -      10       10        18
Crop M ..ogrmPt                           11       11    -      25      26     27     ---          15       15      15     11       11    -      20      20      21         11      11      -     14       14      15        10   .    7    -      20.     20       20     17       127          48      48         50
Hor-rtrlg/Threehiug/Ma-keting             17      .20     -     30      33    360                  30       31      36     13       15    -      25      29       30        14      16       -    26       29      31        14       16    -      24      27       29     25       JO8          62       21        74
gShlotatl   (md/ho)                   45       48      -    74       28    82      ---          45      46      50     41        43    -     62       71      23        42       44      -     62      63       68       41        43     -    66       69      71     66        69    - 140         149       154
(go/ho)                 125      144      -   370    390   410        ---   225           230     250   123       129     -   335      335      365       126      132      -   310      323     340       123      129      -   330      345    353    198       207      -   700      745       720
purhlllurro oud prulOolAre                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Qe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
N   (kg/ho)                            5         5    -     58       55     60    -   --        40      45      50      -         -    -     40       50      60          -       -      -     14      15       20        -         -    -     55       55      60     50        50    - 110    :115           120        L
(mu/ho)                          18.5      18.5-   230    275   300           -  -  -   200       225     250       -        -     -   200      250     300          -              -     75       75    188         -                   275      275     388    250       250     -   550      575       600
p   (hg/ho)                            -         -    -     20       25    30-20-                                                                     23      380-25                     -    35       35       40        -         -     -     25      25      30       -        -    -      30      35        40
(isha)                                                  86    180   129---86                                                                   188     129                              158     158      172                             180    108      129                -     -    129     150       172
K   (kg/hu)                                                                                                                     - -38                                                                                                                                                               35         48
(Ru/ho)                           --
Agro-ohemiools  (go/ho)-                            -     -     50      55    68      -  -  -      30       35      40      -        -     -    15       15       20         -        -      -     35      35      40                          -0                               50  -o   358             425       508
Oth-r Ioootu
dA..l ap-w    (ad/ha)                 14        14     -     16      17    17    ---             0       a        8    11        11    -      15      15      16         11      11      -     i1       15      15        11       13    -      15      15       15     15       15    -      23       25        25
(Ruho)              112      112     - 128        136   136      -  --        64       64      84     08       88    - 128         128      128        88       88      - 120        128     120        80      104     - 128         120     128    128       1280         288     208       288
good             (kg/h.)               5         5    -      10      10     10---               -       -       -     58        58         188      100     100         25      25      -     48       40      40        0         8    -       8       8        0      0        0           18       10        10
(Ksha)               35       35     -     78      70      0----                -       -      -     108      100    - 288         200      200        75       25      - 128        120     120        40       40     -     40       40      40     88        08     -   108      100       100
Hiiuo. la..  o (go/ho)                38        355          75      08    90      -  -  -    25        30       35     30       35     -    85       90     100         30      35      -    60        65      78        20       25     -    60       65       70     60       70      -   160      175       180
Noro:  P     P-rorut
Ft-Paoo  without proJ rot
W      Fotor  with proj-t
Og    Psoo-  pith lrrig-ro   iuf-aerrtro-  -d improvd agrilt-lol  -tu.. oelo
02 -W, pl.0 fioldrhamnrlu
03 -   2 Plus land ehupi.g 



66
ANNEX 1
T-15
INDIA
XARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 1.5 ha Farm
P          W           Wi           W2          W3
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Sorghum                   0.05        0.05       0.33         0.33        0.33
Maize                        -           -        0.16         0.16       0.16
Pearl Millet              0.08        0.08        0.11         0.11       0.11
Pigeon Pea                0.03        0.03           -            -           -
Groundnuts                0.15        0.15        0.19        0.19        0.19
Chillies                     -           -        0.04         0.04       0.04
Pulses                    0.11        0.11        0.08         0.08       0.08
Paddy                                    -        0.03         0.03       0.03
Sesamum                   0.03        0.03           -            -          -
Minor Millets             0.02        0.02           -            -           -
Rabi
Sorghum                   0.66        0.66        0.16         0.16        0.16
Sorghum Ratoon                -          -        0.04         0.04        0.04
Wheat                     0.03        0.03        0.11         0.11       0.11
Gram                      0.02        0.02        0.04        0.04        0.04
Safflower                 0.02        0.02        0.04        0.04        0.04
Bi- seasonal
Cotton                    0.15        0.15        0.27        0.27        0.27
Total cropped area (ha)  1.35         1.35        1.60        1.60        1.60
Net cultivated area (ha) 1.50         1.50        1.50         1.50       1.50
Cropping intensity (Z)  90.00        90.00     107.00       107-00      107.00
Gross Production Value
(Rs)                     1,100      1,850       6,850        8,175       9,150
Farm Production Costs
(Rs)
Hired labor                -           -           -           -           -
Animal                   150         150         235         240         245
Other inputs             200         215      1,100        1,190       1,305
Total                 350         365      1,335        1,430       1,550
Net Production Value
(Rs)                       750      1,485       5,515        6,475       7,600
Irrigation Cost (Rs)
Land Revenue and
Cesses 1/                 15          15         40           40          40
Irrigation Charges           -           -'       355          355         745
.  Subtotal               15.0        15.0       395         395         785
Income tax- 2   ,            _           _         _
Total                  15          15        395          395         785
Net farm income (Rs)       735       1,470      5,120        6,080       6,815
Non farm income          1,000       1,000      1,000        1,000       1,000
Net family income (Rs)  1,735        2,470      6,120        7,080       7,815
NOTE:
P= Present
W  - Future without project; Wl = Future with irrigation infrastructure and
improved agricultural extension; W2 = WI field channels; W3 = W2 plus land
shaping.
1/ Local cess,health cess and education cess.
2/ According to scale.



67
ANNEX 1
T-16
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 4.0 ha Farm
P           W           Wi           W2           W3
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Sorghum                    0.12        0.12        0.90         0.90          0.90
Maize                       -           -          0.40         0.40          0.40
Pearl Millet               0.20        0.20        0.30         0.30          0.30
Pigeon Pea                 0.08        0.08         -            -             -
Groundnuts                 0.30        0.30        0.50         0.50          0.50
Chillies                    -           -          0.11         0.11          0.11
Pulses                     0.30        0.30        0.20         0.20          0.20
Paddy                       -           -          0.07         0.07          0.07
Sesamum                    0.08        0.08         -            -             -
Minor Millets              0.04        0.04         -
Rabi
Sorghum                    1.12        1.12        0.40         0.40          0.40
Sorghum Patoon              -           -          0.11         0.11          0.11
Wheat                      0.08        0.08        0.30         0.30          0.30
Gram                       0.04        0.04        0.11         0.11          0.11
Safflower                  0.04        0.04        0.11         0.11         0.11
Bi -seasonal
Cotton                     1.04        1.04        0.72         0.72          0.72
Total cropped area (ha)  3.40          3.40        4.23         4.23         4.23
Net cultivated area
(ha)                      4.00        4.00        4.00         4.00         4.00
Cropping Intensity (%)  85.00         85.00      106.00       106-0o       106.00
Gross Production Value
(Rs)                       3,280       5,175    18,845        23,840       25,190
Farm Production Costs
(Rs)
Hired Labor                  -           -         45           60           80
Animal                     380         380        630          650          660
Other inputs               650         745      3,070        3,325        3,645
Total                1,030       1,125      3,745         4,035        4,385
Net Production Value
(Rs)                       2,250       4,050    15,100        19,805       20,805
Irrigation Cost (Rs)
Land Revenue and
Cesses 1/                    40          40        100          100          100
Irrigation charges             -           -        940          940        1,980
Subtotal                 40          40     1,040        1,040         2,080
Income tax 2/                  -           -        630        1,270        1,415
Total                    40          40     1,670        2,310         3,495
.Net farm income (Rs)       2,210       4,010    13,430        17,495       17,310
Non farm income            1,000       1,000      1,000        1,000        1,000
Net family income (Rs)   3,210         5,010    14,430        18,495       18,310
NOTE:
P= Present
W = Future without project; Wl = Future with irrigation infrastructure and
improved agricultural extension; W2 = Wl plus field channels; W3 = W2 plus
land shaping.
1/ Local cess, health cess and education cess.
2/ According to scale.



68
ANNEX 1
T-17
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 10.0 ha Farm
W          W1           W2         W3
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Sorghum                   0.3        0.3         2.0          2.0        2.0
Maize                      -          -          1.1          1.1        1.1
Pearl Millet              0.5        0.5         0.7          0.7        0.7
Pigeon Pea                0.2        0.2          -            -          -
Groundnuts                0.6        0.6         1.1          1.1        1.1
Chillies                   -          -          0.3          0.3        0.3
Pulses                    0.5        0.5         0.5          0.5        0.5
Paddy                      -          -          0.2          0.2        0.2
Sesamum                   0.2        0.2          -            -          -
Minor Millets             0.2        0.2          -            -           -
Rab i
Sorghum                   2.1         2.1        1.0          1.0         1.0
Sorghum Ratoon             -           -         0.3          0.3         0.3
Wheat                     0.2        0.2         0.7          0.7        0.7
Gram                      0.1        0.1         0.3          0.3        0.3
Safflower                 0.1        0.1         0.3          0.3        0.3
Bi-Seasonal
Cotton                    3.0        3.0         1.9          1.9        1.9
Total cropped area (ha)  8.0         8.0        10.4         10.4       10.4
Net cultivated area (ha) 10.0       10.0        10.0         10.0       10.0
Cropping intensity (X)  80.0        80.0       104.0        104.0      104.0
Gross Production Value
(Rs)                 8,240.0   12,840.0   48,810.0    58,400.0   65,310.0
Farm Production Costs
(Rs)
Hired Labor            10         20       1,930       2,165       2,315
Animal                900        900       1,585       1,635       1,660
Other inputs        1,710      1,970       8,005       8,700       9,555
Total           2,620       2,890     11,520       12,500      13,530
Net Production Value
(Rs)                 5,620       9,950      37,290      45,900      51,780
Irrigation Cost (Rs)
Land Revvue and
Ceases-               100        100         250          250        250
Irrigation Charges       -          -        2,350        2,350      4,950
Sub-total         100         100       2,600       2,600       5,200
Income taxi2             -          75       4,705       7,720       9,500
Total              100        175       7,305      10,320      14,700
Net farm income (Re) 5,520       9,775      29,985       35,580     37,080
Non farm income       1,000      1,000       1,000        1,000      1,000
Net family income
(Rs)                 6,520      10,775      30,985      36,580      38,080
NOTE:
P= Present
W = Future without project; WI = Future with irrigation infrastructure
and improved agricultural extension; W2 = Wl plus field channels; W3 =
W2 plus landshaping.
-l/Local cess, health cess and education cess
2/According to scale



69                                 ANNEX 1
T-18
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Recovery
Items                                                 2               W3
Annual Financial Requirement                      ---------Rs/ha--------
Irrigation Infrastructure                          970 1/             970 1/
On-farm Development                                 -                 325 2/
Operation and Maintenance                           70                 70
Total                                1,040             1,365
Direct Cost Recovery Under Existing
Charges
Water Charges                                       50                 50
Betterment Levy                                    185                185
Land Revenue 3/                                     15                 15
Education Cess 3/                                    4                  4
Health Cess 3'                                       1                  1
Local Cess 3/                                        4                  4
Subtotal (rounded)                        260                260
On-farm Development                                 -                 260-/
Total                               260               520
Cost Recovery Index                                25%                38%
Indirect Cost Recovery
Sales Tax 5/                                       150                180
Income Tax 6/                                      600                730
Indirect Cost Recovery Index
With Sales Tax                                     39Z                517
With Sales Tax Plus Income Tax                     97%              113%
1/ Amortized in 50 years at 10% interest.
2/ Amortized in 9 years at 10 1/2% interest.
3/ Incremental
4/ In real terms.
5/ Weighted average. Assume 60% of increment sold for 1.5 ha farms, 90%
for 4.0 ha farms and 100% for 10 ha farms.
6/ According to scale.
7/ A cost recovery index above 100% indicates that the farmer has to repay
more than the project costs.
Note: W2 = Future with irrigation infrastructure, improved agricultural
extension and field channels.
W3 = W2 plus land shaping.



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimates of Project Rent
1.5 ha Farm                           4 ha Farm                              10 ha Farm
W                                    W       W1      W2       W3          W      WI        W2        W3           W       W         W2        W3
1.  Expected Gross Production
Value (Rs)                        1,850   6,850   8,175   9,150        5,175   18,845   23,840   25,190        12,840   48,810   48,400   65,310
2. Certainty Equivalent 1/
of (1) (Rs)                       1,295   5,825   6,950   7,780        4,140   16,960   21,460   22,670        10,270   43,930   52,560   58,780
3.  Production Costs (Rs)                   365   1,335   1,430   1,550       1,125    3,745    4,035    4,385         2,890   11,520   12,500   13,530
4.  Family Labor (Rs)                       205     705      730      760       560    1,870    1,940    1,980         1,335    2,975    2,965    2,950
5. Net Returns (Rs)
(2) - (3) - (4)                     725   3,785   4,790   5,470       2,455   11,345   15,485   16,305          6,045   29,435   37,095   42,300
6.  Management Fee (Rs) 2/                   75     380      480      550       245    1,135    1,550    1,630           605    2,945    3,710    4,230
7.  Income tax (Rs)                         -       -        -        -         -         630    1,270    1,415           75    4,705    7,720    9,500
8. Implicit Land Rent (Rs)
(5) - (6) - (7)                     650   3,405   4,310   4,920       2,210    9,580   12,665   13,260         5,365   21,785   25,665   28,570
9.  Project Rent (Rs)                       -     2,755   3,660   4,270         -       7,370   10,455   11,050          -      16,420   20,300   23,205
10. Project Rent per
Irrigated ha (Rs)                   -      1,840   2,440   2,850         -      1,845    2,615    2,765           -       1,645    2,030    2,320
11.  Weighted Average                                              (W1: Rs 1,705/ha,  W2: Rs 2,190/ha,  W3: Rs 2,465/ha)
12.  Rent Recovery Index (%)                                                 W1:  15           W2:  12            WV   21
13.  Benefit Recovery Index ()                                               W1:  11           W2:   9            W3:  15
W- Future without project
Wi = Future with irrigation infrastructure and improved agricultural extension
W2 = W1 plus field channels
W3 = W2 plus land shaping
1/ Some studies of farmers' behavior show that a simple approach can be adopted to take into account the farmers' risk aversion by estimating
a certainty equivalent value (CE) of the expected value (EV). The formula used is:
CE = EV - n x s
where s - the standard deviation
n = a factor that expresses the farmers' risk aversion
The studies indicate that the farmers' choice of cropping patterns and production techniques can be predicted for values of "n" in the
interval I to 2 and that "n" decreases when the farm size increases, For this analysis, it is assumed that n = 1.5 for the 1.5 ha farms
and n = 1.0 for the 4.0 and 10.0 ha farms.  The variation in historical rainfed yields in the project area is roughly within 20% of the
average values.  It has been assumed that under "with" project conditions, the yields would vary within 10Z of the average values.
2/  The reward for management and entrepreneurship is primarily a premium for the special skills that farm management requires.   Consequently,
it has been assumed that the "management fee" is equal to 10% of the net returns.



ANNEX 1
T-20
71
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Critical Events
Activity                                                    Target Date
1.  General
1.1  Completion of Banking Plan                       May       1978
1.2  Completion of CADA Headquarters                  June      1979
1.3  Setting up of Roads Circle                       September 1978
1.4  Submission of Final Road Plan                    May       1978
2.  ICB Contracts
2.1 Submission of Draft Tender Documents
to IDA                                        March      1978
2.2  Issue of Tender Documents                        May       1978
2.3  Closing Dates                                    September 1978
2.4  Awards                                           December  1978
3.  Land Development
3.1  Aerial Photography                               May       1979
3.2 Operation of Land Development
Training Center                               September 1978
3.3  Operation of CADA Engineering Wing              May        1978
4.  Procurement of Equipment
4.1  Completion of Procurement by ID                  July      1979
4.2  Completion of Procurement by AIC                July       1979
4.3  Completion of Procurement by CADA                July      1979



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR UPPER KRISHNA SCHEME
Item          Year  1978       1979     1980    1981      1982     1983    1984    1985    1986         1987    1988    1989       1990     1991    1992      1993
Quarter                                     1         121 34 I[3 1 | 2131 |         44; 1||4              1  1 |21 34
IDA Project (5 Years)                          |1
Board Presentation
v
Project Effective
Almatti Dam                                                                 _     u     51 Iillons so
Narayanpur Dam                                     1t11  *ufl
Narayanpur Left Bank Canal        _
Rajankollur Tunnel                          _
Gundalgeri Tunnel
Shahapur Branch Canal                                                        _
Almatti Left Bank Canal                                                                  -        -
Indi Branch Canal
Mudbal Branch Canal                                                                                                                         _ U
Jewargi Branch Canal
Irrigation & Drainage Systems/     _        17,500  23000  14,000   70,000   105,000  150,0         00             300,000 1350000405,000  418,000 ha cumulative
Village Roads                            '15        100      200      300      600    1860  |11140   1 ,430    1,700                     0    2 400 Km Cumulative
Command Area Development1_
Mapping                                       I",000   ,2500     60000   105,000  160,000  220,000  285,000  350,000 415,00 0  480,000  1545,00 ha Cumulative
3,000    10,000   25,000   45,000   80,000  120,000 1165,000 1215,000 1265,000s315,000 365,0O415,0 O0 41,00 0haCumulative
Field Irrigation Channels                                                                                    PM ,  I  - q ;- qp - q ;-; ;- q                           4 18,000
3,000    7.000    12,000   25,000   45,00  175,000  115,000  165,000  215,000 1265,000 315,000  365.000 1415,000
Field Drainage Channels                                                                                      I , i  ,      ' ~     I  '1___
13,000    7,000    12,000   25,00   45,000   75,00   1115,000 1165,000  215,000  265,000  315,000  365,000 415.000
Land Shaping ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       418,000
Agriculture Support Services      =         =        =       =         =     |                                      ,
Project Monitoring                                                  -                        = - -
1/ Excluding 7,000 ha under distributaries 1, 2 & 3                                                                                                           W1 land acqusition * resettemen  orld Bank   18766



INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization Chart: Upper Krishna Scheme Construction in 1980/81
| Special SecrtarY. 
Irrigation Depanment |
-                  ~~~~~~~~~~n n.rCi v- I                                                                                                                                              c
Superintending                                       |Superintending|                                       SPne-intending                                                                 Superintending
Engineer       |                                        Engineer                                           Engineer                                                                       Engineer
_    Design    ]                                        Workser    Design                                                                                                                 Works
_ DQanlitv Cosntrol| Claiyonrl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      _
Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         La.vsin 
eQuality Cotrol_
Divinine                               __ Dvso
Dam  Circle  Dan, Circle ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~    ~    r                .- c,c.                                                             an1 irl
Den Diise                Dam Dicie                    aa    iin            CanlDivisiec           Cnal Diiin             Canal Dinism           aa   inien      |    Cone Dmise              Cana DiilnAoeDeen
Darn  iin               aDa                                      i       Canal Divinion              CD                    CD                     CDE CD                                        CD               And    ie
_t Dam Dicisien                                    Can|l Divider         Canal Dicien                CD                    COCD                                          COCD                                      eedsi-El  {n 3{3{
Rehabilitation                                    Canal Diciolna        Canal Dicic                 CD                     CD                     CDE                    CDE                   CD                 Cn {El 
q   Division    l  1   {    H      3       i        CD      }      {    < :1               {        <           {      C     1         {    < : 1             {      S     1                                         H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Se-Dviic
M{cleeEiEEl                                                                                                                                                 {l  Bn-80
Cana l Diiie              DnnE  nl             CEnal DmEisin            Mecanica
Werld Sank - 18207



- ~ ~~~~~~~~~ :
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :
k    ;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~---g



75                                                                         ANNEX  1
c-4
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization Chart: Operation and Maintenance of Upper Krishna Scheme
Chief Engineer
Chief Engineer    l                                                      l   Communications
Irrigation      l                                                       l   & Buildings
| Supenntending Engitending Engineer                                    ending Engineer |                                           | Superintending Engineer
|   Dams                                                             I l  Cal als  l                                        l        Roads
;      Division      C              C
T           TT                                                                      ,000 ha) T
a              VI     ;2  j        t        A        Vj                            (4,00 ha)                     w
:.                                                                                                     Worl Bank-
.S   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                    raServedn    WI
a   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~                     (4,0O0Oha) ~
5  Sn   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                              Area Served    .
Sn  Sn  C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                           (24000ha)
0.  0.  a    a,       a         a,      a,~~~~~~~~~~~~Ara ere
World Bank - 18208



76
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
A.   Documents Relating to the Project
1.   Upper Krishna Project (Stage I).  Report and Estimates (in two
volumes), Government of Karnataka, Public Works Department,
December 1976.
2.   The Mysore Land Improvement Act, 1961, and the Mysore Land
Improvement Rules 1962, Government of Mysore.
3.   Karnataka Act No. 16 of 1965, the Karnataka Irrigation Act, 1965,
and the Karnataka Irrigation Rules, 1965, Government of Karnataka.
4.   Report of the Krishna water disputes tribunal.  Volume I and II,
1973.
5.   Further Report of the Krishna water disputes tribunal, 1976.
B.   Selected Working Papers
1.  Draft Report of the Karnataka I Irrigation and CAD Project (in
three volumes); FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, March 1977.
2.   Karnataka Irrigation Project, Water Resource and Utilization,
A. Gibbs (Consultant), November 1977.
3.   Karnataka Irrigation Project, Computation of Irrigation Water
Requirements (Computer Sheets).
4.   Karnataka Irrigation Project, Appraisal Report of Roads and
Marketing Components, P.R. Borrowman (Consultant), November 1977.
5.   Computerized Agro-Economic survey in three irrigation areas
near the Krishna River in North Karnataka (FAO, Rome, March 1977).
6.   Review of Rajankollur Tunnel Designs and Tender Documents,
M.W. Scrivner (Consultant), March 1977.
7.   Karnataka Irrigation Project, Land Development, FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme, October 1977.



77
ANNEX 2
Page 2
8.   Technical Data Almatti Dam (8 volumes), Government of Karnataka
October 1977.
9.   Technical Data Narayanpur Dam (8 volumes), Government of
Karnataka, October 1977.
10.   Review of Storms for the Upper Krishna River Project, Office
Of Hydrology, National Weather Service, NOAA, December 1977.
11.   Review of the Designs of Narayanpur and Almatti Dams by Panel
of Experts: January 1978 (2 Volumes).






IBRD 13043R,
7'6                                            78~                                MARCH 1978
+' z >.    . As peon mate line of control   J°9@MRH17
(S '2 ,?  vt->Y)     CH NA                                                          INDIA
r ,5HtJ,TA -g                        KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Location
I N D IA    -                     ;                                /
0                80               160
~~~~~~~~p ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
v8 <   1/ X  ---Itemreoeonvi  l8|                                                                                         18a
t > \gs i>SE(l LANKtA 9>holrJpur 
Co,> lS           4      A        t  9*~~~~~~~~~Gulbargra  
\   .            8   I      R~~~~~~~~~~~ KRISHNA SCHEPEX 
To Hydeabcd   Project Area
H, argI Barragelt annec                                 ~~~~~~Upper Krishna Scheme
A ma                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigation Area (Planned)
_X P                    Irrigation Area (Existing)
chr 4' *e    ,RiveRivers, Dams and Weirs
Irrigation Canals (Planned)
Irrigation Canals (Existing)
e gaum  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~'Ma jor River Basin Boundaries
Minor River Basin Boundaries
Major Roads
h       <           Q  t       <         X      X''                      Broad Gauge Railroads
e:,   X   TUNVGA :    <                                   Narrow Gauge Railroads
0*    State Headquarters
*     District Headquarters
/CKrJrw r   s ,/%j   t  A/   X   i) 0  - S-State  Boundaries
X  ) . .'\,.   , <       |Chtrirdurgo  K    r                                                           140
Mangalore                                          BANGAL
-T2°   VY   \<        - 't\_ Xt-                             f                            M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8DQ~~ Orea,nr r9t,ha,aadasr f  12°-
W --orld ar   e -d t  . a.rp
O-r-r  -  _h  _   -ttIre     re
Cot-h.tore                    78°






[RED 130)44R
S T A T E   O F                                                                                                     1NDIA
AM A H A R A S H TP A                                                                          KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
UPPER  KRISHNA SCHEME
Uppe           e          - Sho,Ir Canoe Pann-e i
I   &f f_  ;0+So  I                                                                                                                                                         _
0.   1  0   -,         /                    -<            I     t         P                                                                                                                    MaCoo (Uo R
i.0     II                                        \                                      ' *>PROJECT AREA
".2   STATE  OF-     A..o Tone Pro ded .,th                                                                           oe   ono
ON,                                     N                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~K ARPN ATA KA                                          I- o n  riog,adRo  ptrroCernrrn  Pl-ned
A- to on ProoV.ed -rrrr
FIe.d I-rg.t..n                                  Hgorrlo/ -ryI nwe
Ae to 0 P-,dd t -k - d I-, 3-ior  ent 3oorl                         '
,/J                                                                                     S ,  and D-1.- Ter.rk, ad Lad Shtpng        Oiler D16i Zoo6
-.-D,trc't B-.d-:,n
(   ~~~~~~7.0~~~~~~-~~~~'Y                                                          Ti~~~~~~~  C,, or or  T.. r
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-I                                                                                                                                         R
DORNHALLWAICER
I,,_  ~~~~                   c;~~~    .r,c                       ODE AL   >~~~~~~~~~  , ~R                           A     I      C       H       U        R
I           t      12               7' 2    24
£                                  U/,r,c                    ~~        ~     ~ ~~          ~    ~    ~~~~0  0  16  2  t  36
KILOCMtEnS                                                      nc'c,crccc,.






BRO 13IQ9
IC>V FMh nE P I V 
INDIA
KARNATAKA IRRIGATION PROJECT
TYPICAL LAYOUT OF FIELD IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE CHANNELS
,\>  _ = s -:=  -                                       =               \ \                         ,.,.I r.,,.,    ,,      B  ,,,,,,x,,F  d
F P    p r E     .  CUl, - ,  _=   PPC . a t
'' f K ' ' Wit" < r -                                     ;              ~      \    W\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ = 
I ~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~~~ '  a \'''X5X-B                 zX*                'w/   
_                              S_;    _'  L' '  X,0                       L- S2' F
A                               ~~:dl-t-f,-D-S                                                                            '
5,~~~~~~~~FP
S                                                                    -               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"OEUh
S  ~~~~~~                                                                  5'.-                           .- --        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~                              S~39h
*                                                                                5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V 
-T ut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
V~~~~-------~~~~~~~~~~~~  -IN  



