CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 788 IN
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated May 12, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 788 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and STATE OF
KARNATAKA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Karnataka).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-six million dollars
($126,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Karnataka
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Karnataka shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Karnataka undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Karnataka to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Karnataka
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Karnataka shall. furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Karnataka: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof and the benefits to be
derived from it), and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of the proceeds
of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Karnataka and


﻿-3-
the Association, Karnataka shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by Karnataka and the Associ-
ation of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) Karnataka shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Karnataka of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Karnataka shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial condition
related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Karnataka shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than twelve months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. In executing the Project, Karnataka shall
promptly take necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria
and other water-related diseases in the area covered by the
Project.
Section 3.04. Karnataka undertakes to complete the Upper
Krishna Scheme as early as is technically and financially
feasible.
Section 3.05. Karnataka undertakes to allocate to the extent
possible land suitable for cultivation to the farmers resettled
from the Almatti and Narayanpur reservoir areas.
Section 3.06. Karnataka shall make water available from its
share thereof from river Krishna in sufficient quantities to meet
the requirements of the projected cropping pattern in the areas
developed under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.07. Karnataka undertakes to ensure compulsory land
development in the area covered by the Project.
Section 3.08. Karnataka shall, in consultation with the
Association, strengthen its extension services through improved
organization of said services in the area covered by the Project.
Section 3.09. Karnataka undertakes to provide adequate
funds at all times to operate and maintain in accordance with
sound engineering standards the facilities completed under the
Project.
Section 3.10. Karnataka shall, prior to bringing any area
covered by Project under irrigation, prepare a water allocation
plan based on cropping pattern for each area commanded by a
distributory.
Section 3.11. (a) Karnataka shall make ar-.angements for a
systematic assessment and collection of Betterment-Levy in the
area covered by the Project.
(b) Karnataka undertakes to review and, if necessary,
increase its water and water-related charges in the area covered
by the Project from time to time with the objective of collecting
full operational and maintenance cost and, to the extent possible,
cost of infrastructure investment, having regard, inter alia, for
the incentives and repayment capacity of farmers in the area
covered by the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.12. Karnataka shall under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association cause the dams and spillways constructed
under the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with
sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there are
any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance of methods of operations of
the same, which may endanger their safety.
Section 3.13. In respect of the roads to be constructed
under Part A (v) of the Project, Karnataka shall, prior to under-
taking any construction, prepare and furnish to the Association
for its comments, a detailed layout plan for said roads.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Karnataka of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Karnataka:
Development Commissioner
Government of Karnataka
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore 560001, India
Cable address:
Development Commissioner
Bangalore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Karnataka may be taken or executed by
a Secretary to the Government of Karnataka or such other person or
persons as Karnataka shall designate in writing, and Karnataka
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the


﻿- 7 -
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By Is/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, Karnataka shall
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. Karnataka shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the spillway gates for Almatti dam and the works
included in Part A (ii) of the Project shall be prequalified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works other than those listed in para-
graph A.3 above may be let on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association, provided, however, that, (a) contracts for
on-farm development and other small works up to an aggregate not
exceeding 30% of all civil works under the Project may be let on
unit price basis to the local contractors, and (b) works for
watering and compacting of embankments; transportation of murrum
for stabilization; and manufacture and transportation of pre-cast
concrete structures and pre-cast concrete or natural slabs up to


﻿-9-
an aggregate not exceeding 25% of all civil works under Part A of
the Project may be carried out by force account.
2.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles, except for backhoes,
may be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance w,Lth procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids of
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Karnataka of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 10 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if , as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (2) (b) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% may be granted to domestic contractors,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.


﻿- 11 -
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Karnataka shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under
Part D above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished
by Karnataka to the Association for its comments before the
applicants -.re notified of Karnataka's decision, and Karnataka
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more or civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Karnataka shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Karnataka
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 12 -
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and Karnataka and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, Karnataka shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Karnataka
and the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


