                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 788 IN




Development Credit Agreement
        (Karnataka Irrigation Project)



                    between


                     INDIA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             Dated May 12, 1978
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 788 IN


                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1978, betwecen INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;

     (B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Karnataka, the State of Karnataka
has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of the Project;

     (C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corpora-
tion has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Agreements
of even date herewith referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) above;

     NOW THEREFORE    the parties   hereto hereby   agree as   follows:

                               ARTICLE I


                  General Conditions; Definitions


     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth 'herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).

     Section 1.02.    Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise     requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions   have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following    additional terms have the following meanings:
                              - 2 -


     (a)  "Karnataka" means the State     of   Karnataka,   a State   of
India, or any successor thereof;

     (b) "Project Agreement" means the         agreement between the
Association and the State of Karnataka of      even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time,      and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and      all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;

     (c) "ARDC" means the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower;

     (d) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the ARDC Agreement;

     (e) "Lending Banks" means Karnataka State Cooperative
Land Development Bank and Commercial Banks in Karnataka partici-
pating in lending to farmers under the Project; and

     (f)  "Upper Krishna Scheme" means an area of approximately
425,000 hectares situated between the Krishna and Bhima rivers in
Karnataka and to be irrigated from the Almatti and Narayanpur
reservoirs.

                            ARTICLE II


                             The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred twenty-six million dollars ($126,000,000).

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
                               - 3 -


     Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the procepds of tho Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1988, and ending March 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project


      Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall enable Karnataka and ARDC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the ARDC Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Karnataka and ARDC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds
of the Credit funds equivalent to $119,000,000 to Karnataka in
accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for develop-
mental assistance to the States of India.

     (c) The Borrower shall relend funds equivalent to $7,000,000
out of the proceeds of the Credit to ARDC under financial arrange-
ments to be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC under
terms and conditions which shall include inter alia those set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE IV

                     Remedies of the Association

     Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:

     (a) Karnataka shall have failed       to   perform any   of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

     (b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement;

     (c) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or
may be distributed among its creditors;

     (d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations; and

     (e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it   improbable that (i)   Karnataka will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement, or (ii) ARDC
will be able to perform its obligations under the ARDC Agreement.

     Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

       (a) any events specified in paragraphs a) or (b) of Section
4.01    of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
                               -5-


period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and Karnataka or ARDC, as the
case may be; and

     (b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:

     (a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Karnataka has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action; and

     (b)  the execution of the ARDC Agreement on behalf of ARDC,
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.

     Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:

     (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Karnataka, and is legally binding upon Karnataka
in accordance with its terms; and

      (b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARDC and, is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance
with its terms.

     Section 5.03. The date August 14, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
                               - 6 -


                            ARTICLE VI
            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
         Cable address:
              ECOFAIRS
              New Delhi
    For the Association:
         International Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:
         INDEVAS
         Washington, D.C.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,    the   parLies6 heLeto, acting through
their representatives thereunto   duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their    respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of     America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                   INDIA


                   By /s/   N.A. Palkhivala
                                          Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                   By /s/   W. David Hopper
                                              Regional Vice President
                                                           South Asia
                                  - 7 -


                               SCHEDULE 1

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                  Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated           % of
                                  (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Equipment and                  5,100,000
      vehicles

      (a)   directly                                  100% of foreign
            imported                                  expenditures

      (b)   locally manu-                             100% of local
            factured                                  expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory)
      (c)   imported but                              70%
            procured
            locally

(2)   Civil works

      (a)   on-farm                  7,000,000        55% of ARDC's
            works                                     refinance

      (b)   Others                 108,000,000        70%

(3)   Unallocated                    5,900,000


                       TOTAL       126,000,000


2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
                                  -8-


     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:

     (a)   expenditures   prior   to the   date   of   this Agreement;   and

     (b) expenditures under Category (2)    (a) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 above until (i) evidence satisfactory to the
Association has been furnished to the Association that the finan-
cial arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) have been made,
(ii) the Association has received a detailed training program for
the land development staff to be trained at the Land Development
Training Center to be established under Part A (vii) of the
Project; and (iii)  the Association has received a satisfactory
banking plan for the purpose of improving the availability of
short and long term institutional credit in the Upper Krishna
command area.

5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)   if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
                               -9-


order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.

6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
                                 -   10   -




                               SCHEDULE 2

                       Description of the Project

     The Project is a part (extending over a five year period from
April 1978 through March 1983) of Karnataka's long term plan for
construction of dams, canals and irrigation distribution systems
and consists of the following:

Part A:     Within Upper Krishna Scheme

             (i)   The completion of Almatti and Narayanpur dams.

            (ii)   The completion of Narayanpur left bank canal from
                   approximately km 36 to 78, including the
                   Rajankollur tunnel (3 km) and the Gundalgeri tunnel
                   (1 km); and the construction of Shahapur branch
                   canal (76 km).

           (iii)   The construction of lined/stabilized irrigation
                   distribution and drainage systems to serve an area
                   of about 105,000 hectares.

            (iv)   The construction of lined/stabilized field irriga-
                   tion channels to individual farms serving an
                   area of about 80,000 hectares.

             (v)   The rehabilitation and upgrading of about 70 km
                   of existing village and link roads and the con-
                   struction of about 530 km of new village and link
                   roads.

            (vi)   The construction of field drainage channels and
                   on-farm works, including land shaping, farm irri-
                   gation and farm drainage ditches for about 25,000
                   hectares.

           (vii)   The establishment of a Land Development Training
                   Center to train staff on the design, execution,
                   and operation and management of land development
                   works.

          (viii)   Implementation of a program of monitoring the
                   water use efficiencies and economic and social
                   impact of the Project.
                                      -    11   -




           (ix)   Resettlement of families displaced due to construc-
                  tion of dams under the Project.

            (x)   Establishment           of    an    agricultural       development
                  center, agricultural               research   stations    and   other
                  facilities.

Part B:    Within Malaprabha Scheme

           Construction       of     lined/stabilized            field     irrigation
           channels,      field    drainage         channels,   and   on-farm     works
           including land shaping, farm irrigation and farm drain-
           age ditches, for about 26,000 hectares.

Part C:    Within Ghataprabha Scheme

           Construction       of     lined/stabilized            field     irrigation
           channels, field drainage channels, and on-farm works
           including land shaping, farm irrigation and farm drain-
           age ditches, for about 5,000 hectares.




     The   Project   is   expected    to       be completed     by March    31,   1983.
                                 - 12 -


                               SCHEDULE 3


                Principal Lending Terms and Conditions


I.   Regular Land Development Loans

     1.   Borrower to ARDC

          (a)   For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:

                 (i)   annual interest rate of not less than 6.75%,
                       less 0.25% for prompt payment; and

                (ii)   repayment at the end of 9 years.

          (b)   For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to
                15 years:

                 (i)   annual interest rate of not less than 7.25%,
                       less 0.25% for prompt payment; and

                (ii)   repayment at the end of 15 years.

          (c)   Borrower to carry exchange risk.

     2.   ARDC to Lending Banks

          (a)   Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum.

          (b)   Installment repayments to coincide approximately
                with collections from ultimate borrowers.

          (c)   Refinancing by purchase of debentures      or by loans
                not exceeding 90% of individual loans.

     3.   Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers

          (a)   Annual Interest rate of 10.5% minimum.

          (b)   A once and for all evaluation       fee of    0.5% of
                the cost of project investments     may be    charged.
                               - 13   -



           (c)   Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate
                 borrower's repayment capacity, but not to exceed
                 15 years.

           (d)   Grace periods not exceeding 2 years from the
                 date of disbursement of the loans, may be granted
                 at the discretion of ARDC provided that the repay-
                 ment period of such loans is not exceeded.

II.   Special Loans

      Terms and interest rates for lendings by the Borrower,
Karnataka and ARDC to the Special Loans Account (SLA); for lending
from the SLA through the Lending Banks to the Command Area Devel-
opment Authority (CADA); and for recovering by the CADA from
farmers who have benefited from on-farm development, shall be in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Special Loans to Finance
On-Farm Development Works in the Command Area Projects issued by
ARDC on October 29, 1976. Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, these Guidelines shall not be amended for this Proj-
ect.

III. General

           (a)   Security would be as determined by the Lending
                 Banks and ARDC.

           (b)   Technical standards      acceptable   to   ARDC   would
                 be observed.

           (c)   Where the land development works are executed
                 by centralized agencies and no cash is paid to
                 the individual farmer to carry out the work, no
                 cash contribution by the beneficiary will be
                 necessary. In any other cases the contribution
                 described in the respective loan agreement with
                 ARDC will apply.

           (d)   In respect of lendings by the Karnataka State
                 Cooperative Land Development Bank, the borrower
                 will have to purchase at least one share to become
                 a member.
