Dment of
Tle World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 12455
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
NOYEMBER 5, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12455
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performanoe of
their official duties. Its conteots may not odwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2406-CM)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1983   400  FCFA =  US$ 1.00
1984   440  FCFA -  US$ 1.00
1985   444  FCFA =  US$ 1.00
1985   444  FCFA =  USS 1.00
1986   334  FCFA =  US$ 1.00
1987   303  FCFA =  US$ 1.00
1988   305  FCFA =  USS 1.00
1989  _i8  FCFA =  USS 1.00
1990   359  FCFA -  US$ 1.00
1991   298  FCFA -  US$ 1.00
1992   240  FCFA =  US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCU         -     Bottomlands Cultivation Unit (UCCAO)
DEP         -      Studies and Projects Department (Ministry of Agriculture)
DGRST       =     National Scientific and Technical Research Delegation
DPA         =     Provincial Delegation of Agriculture
PONADER           National Rural Credit Fund
Genie Rural -     Rural  Works  Department of Ministry of Agriculture
IRA   R           Agrucultural Research Inttitute
IRD         -     Integrated Rural  DeveloIment
MINAGRI     =     Ministry of  Agriculture
ONCPB       =     Eiport  Crop Price Stabilization Board
PCC         =     Project Coordinat ang Committee
PYC               Project Year
UCCAO       =     Central Agricultural Cooperative Union of the Western
Province
FISCA YEAR
UCCAO: January 1 to December 31
(October 1 to September 30, as from 1983)
Government: July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCLAL UOY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Olreotor-IeneraI
Opewions Evaluaion                                                   November 5, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE lXCTIiVE DIREClR ORS AND THE PRES1DENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cameroon
Second Western Province Rural Develo_mnent Prolect (Loan 2406.CM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cameroon - Second Wectem Province
Rural Development ProJect (Loan 2406-CM). Parts I and iII of the PCR were prepared by the Africa
Regional Office, while Part II was prepared by the Borrower. The Africa Regional Office has
indicated that the cofinrncier (IFAD) concurs with the findings of the PCR.
The project followed the Westem Highlands Rural Development Project (Credit 784-
CM/PAR dated June 1990) with the objectives of consolidating and improving existing operations
and extending them to the whole of the province. Main ccmponents were food crop production.
quality improvement and marketing of coffee, strengthening of cooperatives and further integration
of project services with routine provincial operations.
Implementation was dogged by shortage of local funding, lack of staff skills to
implement some components and poor relations between the project management and the
provincial agencies. The project was restructured, but eventual results after a two-year extension
of the Credit were dlsappointing even so. Coffee production fell rather than increased (because of
reduced farmer interest as output prices felil, and food crop production and physical infrastructure
results were well below targets. Typically for such integrated rural development approaches, the
Govemment is unable to finance operations without further assistance and consequently sustain-
ability of the project investments is rated as unlikely. The Govemment and the Bank have
discarded the regional approach to rural development In favor of improving services to agriculture at
the national level.
Inadequate data did not permit re-estimation of the economic rate of return, but it
would be significantly lower than the SAR's 30 percent. Overall performance of the project is
rated as unsatisfactory, with institutional objectives being achieved only partially (mainly some
good results with farmer cooperatives).
The PCR provides an adequate account of the project experience with the following
points of note: Part 11 (by the Borrower) states that the project achieved most of its objectives
whereas Part I (by the Bank) says that the project largely failed to meet its objectives; both Parts I
and 11 criticize Bank supervision early on as inadequate and inconsistent (priorities changed with
frequent changes of Bank staff); and that the project design was flawed in not taking into account
problems being experienced by the first project.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This docunent has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recpients ony In the pefonnance of
their offici dutes. its contents mny not otherwise be disclosid wihout Word Bank authoization.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINO  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREtACE     . .      ..                                 . .    . .    . .    . .    . .    . .    . ... ....... ...................................1
EVALUATION SUNMARY  .                                                                   ii. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . * . . . . .
PART Is    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
2.    Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
3.     Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . .  1
4.    Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
S.    Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
6.    Project Results   . ....   . .   -   .                               4
7.    Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
83.    Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
9.     Borrower's Performance  . . . .  . . ...   . . .             *..    . .  .  7
10    Project Relationships   .....  .             .  .    ............ ....  7
11.   Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . ...  7
12.   Project Documentation and Data  . . . .   . .... . . .   .  7
PART IIs    PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
2.    Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
3.    Co-financier Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
4.    Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
PART IIIs   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Table 1:  Related Bank Loans & Credits  ...   * . . . *. . 14
2.     Table 2:  Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
3.    Table 3:  Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
4.    Table 4:  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5.    Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . 18
6.    Table 6:  Project Results    . . . .   . . . .   . . . . . 20
7.    Table 7:  Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
8.     Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients onlY in the Performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CQMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM}
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Western
Province Rural Development Project in Cameroon for which Loan 2406-CM, in the
amount equivalent to USS 21.5 million was approved on April 17, 1984. The
Loan Account was closed on April 30, 1993, about two and half years behind
schedule. The Loan was fully disbursed. The last disbursement was made on
March 30, 1993. IFAD co-financed the Project with a loan of US$ 14.5 million
for a term of 20 years at an interest rate of 4%.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR
were prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Occidental and Central
Africa Department, Africa Region.   Part II was prepared by UCCAO on behalf of
the Borrower. The PCR is based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement, supervision reports, internal Bank memoranda, and
correspondence between Bank and the borrower.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives and Desian
1.          The project aimed to expand ongoing operations under the first
Western Highlands Rural Development Project (Cr. 784-CM) to the whole of the
Western Province with the aim of reaching 85,000 farmers, or about 60% of the
rural population. The project was in line with Government's policy, which
aimed at modernizing agriculture, accelerating regional development, and
improving the standard of living of the rura.l poor, while reducing income
disparities. In support of the Government's program, the project was to
provide an institutional framework in extension, training, provision of
improved seeds, fertilizers, insecticides and credit to farmers.   Also
included were soil conservation, bottomlands development, village water
supply, construction and maintenance of feeder roads, and processing of
coffee.
Imnlementation Exoerience.
2.          The project was originally scheduled to be completed by December
31, 1990. However, due to substantial changes in the projzct design and the
suspension of disbursements by IFAD since July 16, 1991, the closing date of
the project was extended twice to December 31, 1992. In addition, lack of
Government funding since 1988 led to several reallocations of the proceeds of
the Loan. However, the shortage of counterpart funds should not necessarily
be construed as lack of Government support to the project, since it resulted
from economic constraints and affected several projects in a similar way.
3.          Prior to 1988, frequent changes in Bank supervision personnel led
to missions advocating different ideas and policies which confused the UCCAO
personnel. However, this was ironed out by the appointment of an agricultural
specialist in the resident mission in Yaounde in late 1987 which made it
easier to maintain a regular dialogue with UCCAO management and establish
better relations and understanding of the problems and issues involved. The
improved relationship contributed to positive changes in project
implementation. The frequency of the Bank missions did not increase but these
became more consistent and regular. UCCAO's performance, in general, was
satisfactory only for those components for which they had the necessary
experience and technical competence; however, performance was poor for
components such as, extension, training, applied research and was generally
good.
Proiect Results
4.          The project largely failed to meet its objectives.  The
quantitative achievements of the project were poor: the actual annual
production of coffee fell. The achievements related to the provision and sale
of pesticides, enhancement of the quality of coffee beans through streamlined
coffee processing, improved coffee marketing, strengthening of the
organization and management of UCCAO's member cooperatives, and strengthening
of the monitoring and evaluation unit at the central level in the Ministry of
Agriculture. The production of vegetables in the bottomlands, a component



- iv -
added during implementation, waS also successful. The infrastructure
components of drinking water supply, the construction and maintenance of
feeder roads, and soil conservation were considerably scaled down. After poor
Implementation, agricultural training, extension and research were transferred
to their line Ministries and integrated in the National Extension and Training
Project when it became effective in 1991.
5.          It is difficult to estimate the number of project beneficiaries.
Nonietheless, there are indications that a large number of male and female
farmers benefited directly or indirectly from project activities, especially
through the program of diversification, provision of pesticides, and
distribution of improved seeds to increase food production. A soil protection
program initiated at the start of the project was later transferred to the
ational Extension and Training Project. Lack of data prevented an estimation
of the project's Economic Rate of Return (ERR), but low ceffee production and
falling prices for coffee and several major food crops would all contribute to
a lower economic rate of return than the 30% estimated at appraisal.
Sustainabilitv
6.          Financially, the project is unsustainable.  Under the current
financial situation and based on past experience, neither the Government nor
UCCAO will be able to finance the project's activities. In fact, Government
financing of the project stopped in 1987/88. Moreover, everyone came to
realize that implementing rural development projects through regional entities
was not technically or institutionally viable, since they had to rely for
support services on their parent Ministries with whom they were competing for
scarce financial resources.
7.          On the other hand, UCCAO provided assistance to member
cooperatives in financial management and training, and services of input
supply and marketing. These components were very well implemented and should
remain sustainable. UCCAO has also been instrumental in organizing bottomland
farmers into small-holders' associations for the production and sale of
agricultural products on both the local and export markets. It is too early
to judge whether horticul4xtral exports will become a viable activity since
much will depend on Cameroon's competitiveness in the world market, and on a
favorable rate of exchange.
Findinas and Lessons learned
8.          The main lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
(a)   the project design did not take into account the lessons learned
in the previous project and consequently perpetuated the failings
of the previous project;
(b)   the lack of continuity in membership of supervision missions and
inconsistency in the advice given to the implementing agency
during the early years of the project, confused the staff of the
implementing agency and resulted in a poor relationship between
the Bank and implementing agency;
(c)   the level of Bank supervision was inadequate for a project in
which many of the components were not being satisfactorily
implemented;
(d)   cooperation and mutual assistance between the implementing agency
and the line ministry was hindered by both competing for resources
and was exacerbated by the lavish logistical support and perks
given to the implementing agency;



(e)   the implementing agency was unable to carry out functions for
which it lacked the technical and organizational capacity and
capability;
(f)   the implementation of this integrated rural development project
through a regional entity was not financially, technically or
institutionally viable or sustainable;
(g)   the production of coffee, the main crop being promoted, was
influenced more by externalities than by factors within the domain
of the project; and
(h)   the implementing agency did not provide, and the Bank did not
insist upon, adequate monitoring and quantitative data collection.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
PART I:  PROJECT REI   FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name                   Second Western Province Rural
Development Project
Loan No.                       24QC-CM
RVP Unit                 :     Occidental and Central Africa
Department
Country                        Cameroon
Sector                         Agriculture
Sub-sector                     Rural Development
2.    Backaround
2.01        Sector Development Obiectives.  At the time of appraisal, Cameroon
had experienced 15 years of economlc growth. Real GDP increased by an average
of 4.2% per year during 1961-71 and rose to an estimated 9% per annum during
1971-81. The Cameroonian economy was also experiencing a rapid structural
transformation due to the exploitation of oil. In 1977/78, agricultural
commodities accounted for 72% of all export earnings, with cocoa and coffee
alone accounting for 53%. By 1981/82 these had fallen to an estimated 28%,
while oil had risen to some 63% of export earnings. However, Government
expected that oil revenues would dwindle by the mid-1990s, at which time
agriculture would once again have to become the main source of growth.
Therefore, in the medium term, Government sought to pursue structural. changes
in agriculture to eatablish a firm base fo. future growth. This included
greater emphasis on improving social amenities in rural areas, and projects
for raising the productivity of smallholders. Principal constraints to the
implementation of these plans were inadequate extension services, weak
institutions, inappropriate research, poor roads, and inefficient input supply
and marketing arrangements.
2.02        Policy Context.  Since the late 1970s, Government had pursued a
policy of decentralization by creatinc specialized institutions for managing
and implementing sub-sector and rural uevelopment projects. A majority of
these institutions and regional development agencies operated as independent
entities, leaving the ministry of Agriculture and other parent Ministries and
Provincial delegations with only a supervisory role. Hence, vesting project
execution powers in an existing regional agency, such as UCCAO, was consistent
with GOC's rural development policy and continued the practice of the first
project. At this time, the Bank was changing from a pro-IRD policy to
sectoral approaches of discouragement of creating parallel services.
3.    Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtions
3.01        Proiect Obiectives.  The project aimed to consolidate and improve
the existing operations under the first Western Highlands Rural Development
Project (Cr. 784-CM), and to extend these to the whole of the Western
Province. The focus was on promoting sound food crop husbandry, improving
coffee quality and marketing, strengthening cooperatives, and further
integrating project services with routine provincial operations.



3.02        Proiect Components.  The above objectives were to be achieved
through a five-year project which included the following components:
(i) quantitative and qualitative improvement of coffee and food crop
production by the provision of incremental fertilizers and
pesticides; strengthening the organization of the crop
protection service for coffee; and improvement in crop drying
and storage techniques;
(ii) expansion and streamlining of UCCAh 4. agricultural trairning and
extension services to cover all six Jepartments of the Western
Province, including the recruitment of extension agents and
"intendants" to improve the planning and control of extension
services and support the reorganization of cooperative service
centers; and female extension agents to focus training and
extension activities on food crop production for women;
(iii) enhancing the organization and management capacity within UCCAO,
particularly through strengthening its administration and
financial management and affecting similar improvements in the
operations ct cooperatives; revision of farmer credit operations
and training all levels of cooperative staff;
(1v) acceleration of soil conservation and reforestation measures,
and drainage and cultivation of bottomlands;
(v) adaptive research which would concentrate on improving on-farm
technology and coffee processing, and increasing the supply of
elite food crop seeds for multiplication;
(vi)  reorganization of the coffee seed nurseries and enlarging the
seed farm to increase the supply of improved food crop seeds;
4vii) construction of 450 village water points to improve public
health and to facilitate coffee washing operations, for which
collective pulpers and drying trays would also be provided;
(viii)  reorganization and streamlining of coffee processing and
marketing, including modernization of cooperatives, factories
and construction and improvement of processing facilities for
UCCAO;
(ix) construction, upgrading and periodic maintenance of 500 km of
category B feeder roads to facilitate delivery of inputs and
evacuation of agricultural products; and
(x) strengthening the existing monitoring and evaluation units at
project and national levels; and development of MINAGRI's
evaluation capacity in the Province.
4.    Proiect Desian and Oraanization
4.01        Conceptual Foundation.  The design of the Second Project was
similar to that of the First Western Highlands Rural Development Project (Ln.
784-CM), which was appraised in May 1977 and closed in June 1984. The Second
Project was to extend and consolidate operations in the entire Western
Province. The project was in line with Government's policy of modernizing
agriculture, accelerating regional development, expanding food crop production
and improving the standard of living of the rural poor, while reducing income
disparities. In support of the Government's program, the project was to
provide farmers with extension, training, improved seeds, fertilizers,
insecticides and credit. Also included were soil conservation, bottomlands
development, village water supply, construction and maintenance of feeder
roads and processinx¾ of coffee. Both the Government and the Bank firmly



- 3 -
believed that the Ministry of Agriculture and other line ministries were
incapable of providing the necessary managerial, technical, organizational and
implementation experience to carry out rural development projects.   Therefore
the responsibility for rural development was delegated to regional agencies or
parastatals wbich were to pr-vide greater efficiency and managerial experience
to manage and implement such projects.
4.02        Scone and Scale.  The project aimed to expand ongoing operations
under the first Westcrn Highlands Rural Development Project (Cr. 784-CM) and
to extend them to the whole of the Western Province. The target was to reach
85,000 farmers, or about 60% of the rural population, of whom 45,000 would be
incremental.
4.03        Roles and Resp onsibilities of Imnlementinc Agencies.  As in the
first project, responsibility for managing and implementing the Second Western
Province Rural Development Project was given to UCCAO, (Central Agricultural
Cooperative Union of the Western Province). UCCAO was established by
Government decree in 1974 with the objective of regrouping cooperatives for
marketing. It originally included four arabica producers' cooperatives, and
had a monopoly for purchasing and exporting arabica coffee. In 1978, as part
of the first project, UCCAO's mandate was broadened to include support for all
agricultural production activities, and the two robust& cooperatives in the
Western Province joined UCCAO. The six member cooperatives were: CAPLAME
(Cooperative Agricole des Planteura de la Menoua), CAPLABAM (Cooperative
agricole des Planteurs des Bamboutos), CAPLANOUN (Cooperative Agricole des
Planteurs du Noun), CAPLAMI (Cooperative Agricole des Planteurs de la MIF7),
CAPLAHN (Cooperative Agricole des Planteurs du Haut-Nkam), and CAPLANDE
(Cooperative Agricole des Planteurs du Nde).
4.04        Although UCCAO had an extensive mandate to provide and manage
services covering all major aspects of agricultural development in the
Province, its main activities were financial management, bulk purchase and
transportation of coffee production inputs, management of members sales,
central sorting and marketing of arabica coffee, and selling robusta coffee to
the National Produce Marketing Board (ONCPB).
5.    Proiect Im2lementation
5.01        Loan Effectiveness.  The Loan was approved on April 17, 1984 and
signed on June 18, 1984. There was considerable delay in Government issuing a
legal opinion on the subsidiary agreement between itself and UCCAO and also in
fulfilling the conditions of effectiveness of the IFAD loan. The project thus
did not become effective until September 9, 1985.
5.02        Imolementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled to
be completed by December 31, 1990. However, the completion date was extended
twice to December 31, 1992 because of substantial changes in the project
design and because IFAD suspended disbursements after July 16, 1991 due to
Government's non-repayment of loans. In addition, lack of counterpart funds
necessitated a reallocation of proceeds of the Loan. The loan was closed on
April 30, 1993.
5.03        Decisions and Actions durina Proiect Implementation.  In 1988,
about three years after the Loan became effective, UCCAO management informed
the Dank that it could not carry out several of the project's components for
the following reasons: (a) Government could no longer provide counterpart
funds since it was going through a financial crisis, (b) UCCAO did not have
the technical competence or expertise to carry out the project components of
extension, training, applied research and water supply and, (c) the relations
between UCCAO management and the Provincial Delegations of the Ministry of
Agriculture and other Ministries had so deteriorated that cooperation between
them for implementation of various project components was no longer possible.
As a result, the project was restructured. Some components, such as water
supply and construction and maintenance of feeder roads, were scaled down to



-4-
enable UCCAO to continue implementing the coffee processing and bottomlands
development program.  Several components, including extension and training,
were transferred to their parent Ministries. However, it was only in 1991
when the National Extension Training Project# (Ln. 3185-CM), became effective
that the Provincial Delegation of Agriculture could etart extension
operations. The credit for the provision of pesticides was turned into a
grant, but with the condition that farmers contribute on a sliding scale up to
75% of the cost. The credit for fertilizer was canceled eince USAID bad
prepared a national project for the privatization of the supply of fei .lizer
to farmers. In contrast, the components related to the processing of coffee
beans and the exploitation of bottomlands were expanded since both were
progressing well. This major restructuring of the project resulted in the
Bank and IFAD increasing their disbursement percentages, and as the country's
financial situation worsened, additional adjustments to the project's
financial plan were necessary to compensate for lack of Government counterpart
funds and for the suspension of disbursements by IFAD after July, 1991.
5.04        Disbursements.  The estimated and actual disbursement of the Loan
is given in Table 3, Part III. Disbursement was delayed due to modifications
to the design of the project, the lack of Government counterpart funds and
suspension of disbursements by IFAD. The total Bank Loan of US$ 21.5 million
was disbursed. The last disbursement was made on March 30, 1993.
S.05        Project Costs.  The total project cost over the five-year
investment period was estimated at appraisal at USS 55.7 million excluding
taxes. The financial plan consisted of a Bank loan of US$ 21.5 million, an
IFAD loan of US$ 14.5 million, and total contributions from the Government,
UCCAO and farmers of US$ 19.7 million. The actual cnst was about USS 59.05
million. Details of project costs and financing are given in Tables SA and
58, Part III.
5.06        Procurement.  Procurement for the execution of the project
components went smoothly and management complied with Bank procurement
procedures and guidelines.
5.07        ProJect Risks.   Three primary project risks were identified
during appraisals
(i)   the management risk was not considered high as the proposed
activities would rely on existing structures and systems whose
effectiveness was to be strengthened through improved
technologies, procedures and controls, combined with training;
(ii)  reorganization of input supply was expected to reduce the risk of
untimely and inadequate delivery of fertilizers and pesticides to
farmer; and
(iii) financial weaknesses of the rcbusta cooperatives would be remedied
through improvements in the pricing system for coffee, and in the
management and accounting procedures of the cooperatives.
5.08        The management risk proved to be substantial.  Overall progress
was slow for several components, particularly those dealing with the
development of water supply, soil conservation and training, primarily because
UCCAO lacked experience and technical expertise in these areas.
6.     Proiect Results
6.01        Proiect Obiectiveg.  Despite the borrower's statements to the
contrary (para 2.03, Part II), the project largely failed to meet its
objectives. Those objectives that were met related to the provision and sale
of pesticides, enhancement of the quality of coffee beans through streamlined
coffee processing, improved coffee marketing, strengthening of the
organization and management of UCCAO's member cooperatives, and strengthening
of the monitoring and evaluation unit at the central level in the Miaistry of



Agriculture. The diversification of bottomlands for the production of
vegetables, a component added during implementation, was also successful.
Only partially achieved were the development of bottomlands, and the
considerably scaled down infrastructure components of drinking water supply,
the construction and maintenance of feeder roads and soil conservation. The
agricultural training, extension and research components were poorly
implemented and had to be transferred to their line Ministries and integrated
in the National Extension and Training Project when it became effective in
1991.
6.02        The quantitative achievements by the fifth year of the project
were very disappointing. For example, only 23 of 250 collective depulpers
were established, 116 km of 500 km of roads were constructed, 228 km of 500 km
of roads were maintained, and 254 of 450 water points were constructed. The
actual annual production of coffee, at an estimated 8,300 tons of arabica and
6,100 tons of robusta, was substantially below both the appraisal objectives
of 21,500 and 25,200 tons, and the "without project" estimates of 17,400 and
22.4 tons, respecti%ely. This large drop in coffee production can be mainly
attributed to the drop in the world market and producer prices, reduced
acreage, and erratic yields. A contributing factor was Cameroon's lack of
competitiveness in world markets due to a weak dollar and the appreciation of
the exchange rate for the CFA franc. The exchange rate of the dollar dropped
from FCFA 440 in 1985 to FCFA 240 in 1992. The provision of improved seeds to
farmers for food crop production in the Western Province was smaller than
envisaged (150 instead of 250 tons per year of maize). The notable success
was crop protection: the area protected against antestia was almost double the
appraisal estimate. Project results are given in Table 6, Part III.
6.03        It is difficult to estimate the number of farmers who have
benefitted from the project. Nonetheless, it can be assumed that from the
information provided in Part II of the report that the majority of the
targeted population benefitted directly or indirectly from project activities,
especially through the program of agricultural diversification and
distribution of improved seeds to increase food production. Similarly, women
are assumed to have participated in and benefitted from project activities
although no information ia available on the recruitment of female agents or on
their effectiveness in increasing food crop production by women. With
reference to environmental activities, a soil protection program was initiated
at the start of the project, but was later transferred to the National
Extension and Training Project in 1991.
6.04        Economic Results.   The project's ERR at appraisal was estimated
at about 30% based on quantifiable incremental production. This estimate
considered investments in the arabica coffee zone of the first project as sunk
costs, and hence included a lower level of investment costs in the analysis
than would normally have been the case. The data available does not permit a
re-estimation of the ERR but all indications are that the actual ERR would be
significantly lower than the appraisal estimate. The following factors
explair the assumed low actual economic rate of returns (a) coffee production
dropped due to low yields, poor extension services and lower export prices;
(b) food production failed to increase to the extent projected due to a large
drop in prices; (c) periodic project restructuring caused delays in
implementation and therefore led to only partial realization of benefits and;
(d) costs were higher than expected for lower quantitative achievements.
7.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.01        Sustainability.  The project is financially unsustainable.   Under
the current financial situation and based on past experience, neither the
Government nor UCCAO will be able to finance any of the project's activities.
In fact, Government financing of the project stopped in 1987/88, and the Bank
and IFAD's percentage of financing of key components was increased through the
re-allocation of proceeds of the loan. Moreover, the Bank, Government and
UCCAO came to realize that the implementation of rural development projects
through regional entities, whether cooperatives or parastatals, was not



- 6 -
technically or institutionally viable, since most had to rely on their parent
Ministries for support services.   UCCAO could not obtain this support since
both UCCAO and the ministries were competing for scarce financial resources.
7.02        On the other hand, UCCAO demonstrated its technical capability to
provide assistance to member cooperatives in financial management and
training. These components were very well implemented and should remain
sustainable. UCCAO should also be able to continue efficiently carrying out
for its member cooperatives such services as bulk purchasing and
transportation of coffee inputs, bulk purchasing and processing of coffee
beans, and centralized sorting and marketing of arabica and robusta coffee.
7.03        With reference to bottomlands development, UCCAO has been
instrumental in organizing farmers into small-holders, associations for the
production and sale of agricultural products on both the local and export
markets. It is too early to judge whether agricultural exports of vegetables
and other horticultural products will become a viable activity since much will
depend on Cameroon's competitiveness in the world market, and on a favorable
rate of exchange. Assuming a favorable macroeconomic climate framework, this
pilot program could be supported and expanded under a Proposed Agricultural
Exports Promotion Project, in which several donors have shown keen interest.
in addition, the recent changes made in the Cooperatives Law relating to the
status of cooperative societies, which was adopted on August 14, 1992 by the
National Assembly, will greatly enhance the development of the private sector
through the cooperative movement.
8.    Bank's Performance
8.01        Supervision Performance.  Bank supervision was less than the
project situation warranted. There were 10 supervision missions over the 9
year period between post-appraisal (March 1984) and closure (April 1993). Two
of these missions were before effectiveness (September 1985). Frequent
changes in Bank supervision personnel prior to 1988 led to missions advancing
different ideas and policies which often contradicted each other. This
resulted in much confusion among UCCAO management and staff. The late 1987
appointment of an agricultural specialist in the resident mission in Yaounde
made it easier to maintain a regular dialogue with UCCAO management, and to
review the project's progress and seek solutions to the financial and
technical problems. The frequency of missions did not increase but increased
consistency enabled the Bank and UCCAO management to establish better
relations and understanding of the problems and issues involved.
8.02        Main Lessons Learned.  Project design, preparation and appraisal
did not take into account any lessons learned from the first Western Highlands
Rural Development Project which closed in June 1984. Although the Project
Completion Report of the first project was not published until October 1987,
over three years after the SAR of the second project, the failure to recognize
and remedy the deficiencies of the first project led to their perpetuation In
the second project. The lessons learnt in the first project, and confirmed in
the second, showed that: (i) although UCCAO was one of the more efficient
agricultural regional agencies in Cameroon, it did not have either the
technical or organizational capacity to carry out all of the project's
components (specifically extension, training, water supply and construction
and maintenance of feeder roads); (ii) relations between UCCAO and the
Provincial Delegations were bad and were bound to get worse since they were
competing for scarce financial resources and the project created parallel
services.
8.03        A 1988/89 diagnostic study of parastatals and regional agencies in
Cameroon revealed that the proliferation of these structures had not yielded
the expected efficiencies and that they were very costly in relation to their
impact on the local population. Indeed, the Bank came to realize that the
common ailments of rural development projects were their high cost,
complexity, and special status which gave them special operational privileges
which were not shared with Government services. Because IRD projects were



favored by donor attention, human and financial resources were shifted out of
normal Government services into parallel agencies, such as UCCAO, to manage
rural development. The result was to weaken further Government services and
to proliferate separate regional services with donor-specific approaches for
implementing rural development. Therefore, issues that required national
policy decisions by central Government services were, not surprisingly, often
ignored. For example, water rates, construction and maintenance of feeder
roads, extension services, producer prices for coffee and cocoa, and other
issues varied regionally according to the policies of the implementing or
donor agency, and often contradicted each other.
8.04        By the late 1980s the financial crisis in Cameroon had
deteriorated to a point where the Government could no longer finance regional
integrated rural development projects through regional entities or
parastatals. In addition, the Bank came to realize that the serious
organizational and institutional problems of integrated rural development
projects could best be addressed within the framework of such national sector
and sub-sector projects as the National Extension and Training project (Ln.
3185-CM), the Livestock Sector Development project (Ln. 3014-CM), and the Food
Security project (Ln. 3388-CM). This approach has enabled the Bank to address
more effectively, institutional and organizational issues related to
coordination and delivery of services to farmers, and to eliminate the
duplication of activities which often resulted in much confusion among
farmers, and more importantly, wasteful Government expenditures. This change
of policy on the Bank's part, and the inability of UCCAO to carry out a number
of operations, led to substantial modifications in the design of the project.
Thus, after 1988, the Bank spent much time with UCCAO management re-directing
the project, putting more emphasis on improving the quality and processing of
coffee beans, and launching a pilot program for the diversification and export
of agricultural products.
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.01        The Government has been committed to the project.  The shortage of
counterpart funds experienced during project implementation was an indication
of the general economic difficulties in the country and should not necessarily
be construed as a lack of Government support. UCCAO's performance in project
implementation was satisfactory for those components which were within its
technical competence, as explained in para. 6.02. However, UCCAO did not
perform well in those activities, such as, extension and training and
development of drinking water supply facility, where it had little experience
and technical capability.
10.   Proiect Relationships
10.01       Relationship between UCCAO and the Bank improved considerably
after 1988 as a result of the Bank improving continuity and con3istency in its
supervision missions and stationing a Bank agricultural expert in Cameroon.
11.   Consultina Services
11.01       Internationally recruited technical assistance staff and short
term consultants were an important element in the initial phase of the
project. Their performa;;ce was generally satisfactory and as soon as UCCAO
staff could take over their functions, technical assistance was no longer
required. However, UCCAO continued to recruit consultants to carry out
feasibility studies for the exploitation of bottomlands.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01       Auditing of accounts was carried out satisfactorily and in time.
Financial management of UCCAO was good but reporting on project progress was



- 8 -
poor. Supervision reports provided some information for the PCR but there
were still substantial gaps especially concerning the quantitative
acbi.evements of the project. At completion, the Borrower produced a report
which is included as Part II of the PCR.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Bank' Performance
1.01        Bank's Performance Durina Proiect Imolementation . Throughout the
life of the Project, the Bank carried out several supervision missions and
during that time the Project took many different turns. Disbursements were
suspended several times which disrupted project implementation, and in 1988,
due to shortage of counterpart funds and the inability of UCCAO to carry out
all of the project components, the project was substantially revised;
consequently, the extension and training components were transferred to the
Provincial Delegation of Agriculture. Components related to soil conservation,
water supply and reforestation were also modified or canceled. In 1989 the
financing plan was revised, and as a result the Bank and IFAD increased their
disbursement percentages. The project was originally scheduled to close on
December 31, 1990. However, in view of the modifications in Project design and
suspension of disbursements by IFAD in 1991, the closing date was extended
twice to December 31, 1992, to enable UCCAO management to complete the
Project.
1.02        There were constant changes in the composition of Bank supervision
missions, which did not facilitate appreciation of the problems encountered in
the field. In particular, prior to 1988, contradictory recommendations
advocated by different missions fostered misunderstandings between the Bank
and UCCAO personnel. Often, the conclusions reached by the supervision
missions were relayed late to the parties involved in the project
implementation, and did not always reflect the latter's opinion. However
after 1988, the outcome and progress of the supervision missions greatly
improved. Continuous dialogue was established with the Bank's Resident
mission, which led to more fruitful discussions about the Project. The
appointment in 1987 of a resident agricultural specialist particularly
contributed to more transparent communication and improved problem redressal.
2.    Borrower Performance
2.01        Government's Performance durina Proiect Implementation.  As a
result of the financial difficulties it encountered, the Government was unable
to meet its financial commitments to UCCAO.  The Government contributed CFAF
3.1 billion as indicated below:
1984/85 . . . . . . . . 1,400
1985/86 . . . . . . . .  700
1986/87 . . . . . . . .  750
1987/88 . . . . . . . .  250
Total . . . . . . . . . 3,100
2.02        The Government's contribution was not consistent; from CFAF 1.4
billion in the Project's first year, it dropped to CFAF 250 million four years
later, and no further contributions were made thereafter. In effect, the
Government only provided a third (CFAF 3.1 billion) of its original commitment
of CPAF 9.5 billion, of which CFAP 5.7 billion was to go towards the
financing of investments, and CFAF 3.8 billion was intended to cover recurrent
costs.



- 10 -
2.03        Achievements and Lessons Learned.  The Western Province Rural
Development Project achieved most of its objectives over the course of its
life. There were many direct and indirect effects on the socio-economic life
of the population of the Western Province. With the exception of the
components that were transferred to other line Ministries, the Project was
successful in its objectives and contributed positively to the Province's
commercial activities. The Project's key objectives, achievements and lessons
learnt are as follows:
a)     Coffee
2.04        The primary Project objective was to increase production and
improve the quality of Arabica and Robusta coffee.
i)    Improved Variety
2.05        In this regard, the Project, together with the IRA, concluded that
the JAVA variety was by far the best performing coffee species both in terms
of productivity and resistance to the most serious disease, anthracnose.
However, its only problem was that it should not be inter-cropped with food
crops, which was the prevailing practice among smallholders.
ii)   Agronomy
2.06        Pure Stand.  Based on IRA's experience, and the conclusions
reached as a result of several study tours to Arabica coffee producing
countries, such as, Burundi and Kenya, the Project concluded that growing
coffee with other crops limited yields and production. In a number of
plantations, it was noted that at the start of the Project there were 1,200
coffee trees per ha. However, during the latter part of the project the
farmers had replaced many trees with food crops leaving barely 100 trees per
ha. The Project had attempted to persuade farmers to use a quarter of their
plantations for the exclusive cultivation of coffee and the remaining three
quarters for growing food crops. Using this system, at least 500 kg of
commercial coffee could be grown on a quarter of a ha giving a total yield of
2,000 kg per ha, which was substantially more than the current yield of 100 kg
per ha.
2.07        Fertilization.  Together with IRA, the Project determined that the
intensive use of ammoniac sulphate for several consecutive years had acidified
almost all the land in the Western Province. To rectify this situation, the
Project recommended that a change be introduced in the nutrient ratio of the
first round of fertilizer to be applied to coffee trees. The Project also
recommended the use of urea, which has no acidic elements, as opposed to
sulphate ammoniac. This would double nitrogen supply, reduce costs and lessen
the tendency for the Province's soil to become acidic.
2.08        Crov Protection.  The Project, in collaboration with IRA and the
Western Crop Protection Unit concluded that the two biggest diseases of
Arabica coffee were antestla and anthracnose. To assist the Crop Protection
Unit in eradication of these diseases, the Project provided the Crop
Protection Unit with equipment, such as sprayer fuel, insecticides and
vehicles.
iii)  Imorovement of the Quality of Coffee
2.09        As a result of the collaboration between the Project and IRA and
taking into account the lessons of the study tours to Kenya and Burundi (these
two countries no longer have manual depulpers) the Project decided to place
particular emphasis on:
-     post-harvest activities:  a special extension effort was made to
encourage farmers to pick coffee promptly when the cherries
ripened and to avoid mixing ripe cherries with overly ripe or
under-ripe cherries;



- 11 -
-     the time between harvesting and depulnina:  to obtain good,
commercial coffee, only a maximum of 12 hours should elapse
between the harvesting and depulping of cherries. However, in most
cases an interval of two to seven days elapses before farmers
depulp the cherries using manual depulpers. This causes the coffee
to smell like decayed beans, and greatly reduces Cameroon's
competitiveness in international markets;
-     the establishment of a mechanized system for degulpina: the
introduction of community depulping centers equipped with engines
facilitated the production of fully washed coffee. The Project
financed 4 major CDCs in the 4 Arabica coffee producing
departments (Menoua, Bamboutos, Mifi and Noun), and several small
CDCs throughout the Province.
2.10        However, despite the investments in research and training,
improved cultural practices, the use of chemical inputs and incentives such as
regeneration and uprooting fees paid to farmers, coffee production stagnated,
and even fell. The primary reasons for this were:
-     low regeneration rate;
-     poor yields per ha;
-     aging farmers and plantations;
-     rural exodus;
-     inter-cropping of coffee and food crops;
-     limited arable land, as available area was used for food
production and housing sites, besides coffee cultivation;
-     drop of international and farm-gate prices, which led many
smallholders to switch to food crops.
b)    Other crops
2.11        Other Project objectives were to increase food crop production,
crop diversification and introduction of improved varieties.
i)    Increased food crot oroduction
2.12        The Project sought to provide farmers with good quality seed,
especially for cereals and tubers. The Bafole farm established by the First
Western Province Project enabled the production of 30 tons of cereal seeds for
corn, yams, and beans. Under the Project, potato seeds were imported and
multiplied and later sold to farmers. The initial imports of potato seeds
were from the Netherlands, but Region V of the International Center of
Potatoes, based in Bamenda, can now produce top quality potato seeds.
ii)   Diversification
2.13        UCCAO sought to develop bottomlands;  this was achieved
essentially through the drainage and irrigation of bottomlands and the
introduction of a variety of food crops such as, green beans, okra and pepper.
Despite various difficulties in the development process, arising out of poorly
organized bottomlands Management Committees, UCCAO has established more than
2,700 farmers on some 3,500 plots of land, with areas ranging from 500 to
2,000 m2. About 400 ha of bottomlands are being developed regularly through
the cultivation of corn, potatoes, green beans, tomatoes, soya, okra and sweet
potatoes. For two years the farmers of the Western Province have thus been
able to earn substantial incomes through cultivation of crops other than
coffee.
c)    Soil Conservation
2.14        This component consisted of reforestation and soil conservation of
hilly areas in the Province, where the effects of soil erosion were the worst.
Nurseries of eucalyptus and first were established. As a result, 700 hilly



- 12 -
areas were reforested. Soil conservation techniques were applied, and about
57 demonstration sites were set up.
d)    Improved Water Suvoly
2.15        This component focused on the provision of drinking water in the
villages. Additionally, the water could also be used to process coffee.
Although the component's objective was to set up 450 water points, only 254
water points were established, of which 26 were equipped wells, 38 were water
fountains and 190 were drinking water points. In 1988, the Bank restructured
this component, and linked it to depulping centers for Arabica Coffee. This
provided water for drinking and washing of coffee beans.
2.16        Overall, the Province's agricultural sector made good progress
over the life of the Project. The rural exodus slowed down significantly and
the standard of living of the local population has improved substantially
through better housing, schools and other social amenities.
2.17        Suaaestions for Future Investmentss  With respect to the
foregoing, the main suggestions with relevance for future investments are as
follows:
e)    coffee
2.18        A recent study carried out by an international consultancy firm on
the viability of coffee production in the Western Province, suggests that some
limited financing should continue to be provided in order to maintain the
growth of Arabica coffee, assuming that current market trends do not change
drastically. Large investments have been made in coffee production during the
life of the two Projects, and it would be a waste of financial resources if
all assistance were stopped now. Although a number of farmers have shifted to
food crop production because of better returns, coffee remains extremely
important to the economy of the province.
2.19        With respect to improved varieties of coffee, these are currently
being tested: Jackson II, Blue Mountain and S288; these mature after five to
six years, and have been introduced to farmers on an experimental basis.  In
addition, farmers will need to grow coffee on pure stand otherwise yields will
remain low.
f)    other Crops
2.20        Given the importance of the development of bottomlands, there is a
need for continued assistance to the private sector for several years to
ensure development of agricultural export crops such as vegetables and other
horticultural products. In this context, it will be necessary to carry out a
soil survey to determine the fertilizer input for these soils which have an
enormous agricultural potential. Much attention should be paid to the
production of potatoes, green beans, pepper, okra, fruits and other vegetables
for local consumption and for export which would increase farmers, incomes,
given the fall in coffee and cocoa prices. Consequently, the current pilot
experiments should be pursued.
g)    Cooperative Sector in the Province
2.21        A new legislation on cooperatives has just been adopted by the
Government. This new legislation will greatly enhance the operation and
management of cooperatives through increased liberalization and accountability
of the agricultural sector. This will require additional funds for training
of managers, establishment of new cooperatives and restructuring of existing
ones.
2.22        New management styles, enhanced institutional framework and
organizational structures will need to be designed and implemented. All of



- 13 -
this will require thorough preparation, which calls for additional financial
resources.
3.    Performance of Co-Financier
3.01        Supervision missions led by IFAD were greatly appreciated as they
were consistent in their approach and were headed by the same individual.
However after June 1991, IFAD suspended disbursements due to nonpayment of
loans by Government and no further supervision missions were carried out.
4.    Lessons Learned
The major lesson learned was that to ensure effective project
implementation, transparent and timely communication between the Bank and
Borrower is essential. This in turn may be accomplished through continuity in
the composition of Bank's supervision missions.  A thorough understanding of
the problems and issues prevailing in the field, and a coherent approach to
the same, by Bank staff, are also indispensable.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SiCOD 'WESTERN PROVINC'- RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CH)
PART III: sITATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and Credits
LOAN/CREDYr                           PURPOSE                       APPROVAL                     STATUS
|Wesern H    ads           Provision of extenson, training,                  1978          Dospitw various shotfalls, th
Rural Development          credit, pesticides, fetilizers.                                 project had a significant immpact
Proj.-Cr.784-CM            & improved food crop seeds, along with                          on the agricultural production in
(USS 25.0 million)         assistance in applied research, soil                           the atea. The actual ERR of 17%
conservation/afforestation and coffee                          was below the esdmate of 20%,
processig to stinlate production.                              primarily due to lower coffee
production, reutin from
inadequate supply of fertilizers
and chemicals.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
MOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
Table 2: Proect Timetab}e
|        ITEM                 PLANNED                  REVISED                 ACTUAL
Identificaton                  4/81           __4/81 & 7/81
Prepation                       10/81                    -                     10/81
Appraisal                       5/82           _                               5/82
Post-Apprisl                                  __               _                3/84
Board Approval                                         4/17/84                4/17/84
Loan Signature                              _         6118184                 6/18/84
Loan Effectiveness              10/84                 9;09/85                 9/09/85
Project Completion             6/30/90                12/31/91                12/31/92
Loan Closing                  12/31/90                4/30/93                 4/30/93



- 16 -
PROJ CT CO MPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECON  WES&TERN PROVINCE RLRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
Tale 3: L    Disbu     s
(US$ 000)
BANK FISCAL YEAR             PLANNED                         ACTUAL
Amount    Cumulative   Amount    Cumwlative   as % of
by FY                    by FY                    appraisa
1984               200         200            0           0          0 %
1985             3,000        3,200            0          0          0%
1986             4,300        7,500        1,435       1,435        19 %
1987             6,500       14,000        1,440       2,875        21 %
1988             4,300       1-,300        1,868       4,_43        26 *
1989             2,300       20,600         871        5,614        27 %
1990               900       21,500        1,907       7,521        35 %
1991                         21,500       4,993        12,514       58 %
1992                         Z1,500       5,844        18,358       85 %
1993                         21,500       3,142        21,500      100 %
Not:  Disbursement was delayed due to:
- modifications in the design of the project
- lak of counterpart funding
- suspension of disbursment by IFAD
Last disbursement was made on March 30, 1993.



- 17 -
PROJEC COMPLEION REPORT
CAMEROON
SBCOND WESTERN PROVNCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
Table 4: Project Inlementation
INDICATORS                                 APPRAISAL ESTIMATE           ACTUAL
1. EXTENSION STAFF DEPLOYED
Sector Chief                                  6                            6
Principal Agticultural Officer                27                          21
Agricultual Officer                           65                          N/A
Extensin Agent                             320 (PY3)                   266 (PY3)
2. PERTIIER UTLZATION M                           45,000 (PYS)                 29,566 (PYS)
3. CROP PROTECTION ACTIONS
Antesia (ha)                               80,00011                     139,657
Anthracuose (ha)                            54,0001                       N/A
4. COFFEE PRODUCTION
Arabic. (tons)                           21,S00 (PY6)                    8,300
Robusta (uts)                            2S,200 (PY6)                    6,100
S. IMOVED SEEDS OUTPUT
Maize (tonesyr)                               2S0                         1S0
DeaM (tonyr)                                  78                          N/A
Iroundnuta (tofyr)                            66                          N/A
Potatoes (tonslyr)                            700                         N/A
6. BOTTOMLANDS
Drained (ha)                                  700                         S01
Cultivated (ha)                               700                         400
7. SOIL CONSERVATION AND
REFORESTATION
Area Planted (ha)                             750                         434
Demostmtion sites (a)                         50                           50
8. WATER POINTS
Constuction                                   450                         254
9. COFFEE MROCESSING
Coliective Depulpers                         250                          23
Coffee Factodies                              7                            4
10. FEEDER ROADS
Leng  Constructed (km)                       500                          116
Lenth Manaind (kn)                           500                          228
j1 Equivagent area but with optimum number of treatMnte



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVgLOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2406-CM)
T      5: Project Costs sad Fitancing
A. Project
(US$ '000 - DIember 1983 Costs)
|  __TEMS    [= AFPRAIAL |   ESTIMATB AS OF 07/23/92   _                     ACUAL
T|  AL        LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL   LOCAL              FOREIGN       TOTAL
Increental fertie     5,000          400       4,600        5,000                  2,041
Crop protectioantd    1,800         1,300      3,800        5,100                  1,397
increnirtal chenica    ___        
Training, extension&    9,600       3,900      2,400        6,300                  1,445
coopeative serices
soil constrvaion and    1,000       800         200       1,000                    1,978
afforestation
Bottomland develop.    S00           400        100          S00                   1,518
VUge water supply    3,200          1,800      1,400        3,200                  2,356
Appliedmtesearch      1,600          800        8oo         1,600                   444
Seed farm             1,000          500        S00         1,000                  1,007
Coffee prcessig       10,100        3,000      7,100        10,100          .      13,990
Fetder roads          4,500         1,600      2,900        4,500                    689
Prject adminisdion    2,700          400       2,300        2.700                   1,8S4
Motitor & evaluation   900           S00        400          900                     688
Bxnion prog phase I                            2,S00        2,500                  2,299
Prelim proj preparatn  __       _              2,373        2,373                  2,184
Total baseline cost   41,900        15,400    31,393        46,773    28,259       33,900        62,159
Physical conthgencies    2,300        600      1,700        2,300    0             0
Prce contingencies    11,500         5,800     5,700        11,500    0            0
Total project costs   55,700        21,800    38,793        60,573    28,259       33,900        62,159
(McI taxes)                                               I .  .
Taxes                  -             7,100       -          7,100      3,109       0             3,10M
Total Prqt costs (net  55,700       14,700    38,793        53,473    25,150       33,900        59,050
of taxes)



- 19 -
PROJECr COMPLETlON REPORT
CAMERO
SBCOND WESIERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVLOPMENT PROS          E
(LOAN 240f CM)
Table S: Proit Coss and Finanoi,w
(net of taxes)
8. Pmiiwt Finamine
(USSm Decomber 1983 Costs)
Source                               Appuial                              Aoual
MRD                                  21.5                                 21.5
WAD                                  14,5                                 13.3
GOC/UCCAO                            19.7                                 24.25
:TOTAL                               55.7                                 59.05



- 20 -
PROECr COMPLEMlON REPORT
CAMROON
SECOND IET= ]PROVINCE LRUAL DEVL-PMENT PROIJEC
(LOAN 2406-CM)
Table 6: Proiet Reults
A. Direct Rcwlta
INDICATORS                                    APPRAMAL ESTIMATE             ACrUAL
FETLIE UTIIATION (NtMI                               45.000 (PYS)                  29,56 (PYS)
CROP PROTECTION ACTIONS
Aablad (i WW000'                                                              139,637
Auamm  *a)                                     54,000'1                        tUA
COFF  PRODUCTION
Anbica (too)                                 21.500 (PY                       8300
RbUt (_ss)                                   25.200 (PY6)                     6,100
IMPROVED SEEDS OUTPUT
maize (tmiatyr)                                 250                            150
Dom (tou&s/yr)                                  78                             NIA
O    wmut Omsyr)                                66                             N/A
P*ao|  Oi-syr)                      _00                                        NIA
-BOTOMANDS
DWi6 0)W                                        70D                            m0
-.akd (ha)                                     7m0                             400
WATER POINTS
,   Coaswc6450                                                                 254
COFFEEPROCESS
Cosadlo DepAlP.                                250                             23
CITO Facltui                                      7                             4
FE|EDR ROADS
L     ICac¢                                    500                             116
Le*MWa-  t)                              _SOD                              228
Note: 1 Eukt am  but aim   _ d         trwitmeso
B. Economic I mact
APRAISAL M1TBAT|                  BSSIMATB AT COMPLHON
BCONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                            30                  j
C. Studies
TnILE                         PURPOSE                                     IMPACI
UCCAO Cofee Maedting   Developrient& review of action           Althougsh the study prosibed by the Ministry of
Study                      p1aetrategy for improved coff        Agdicultur's Office for Proj*b and Stdies was
marketing by UCCAO                   not carrWied ot, significat effixt was made for
buproviz  cofise production ad marketig
proces.



- 21 -
PROJECa COMPLtNYQREO
CAKMOON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMEN PRO
(LOAN 24064CM)
Table 7: Status of Coveotnts
sEN3TH3{                                 DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                                                    STATUS
4.01 (a)           The Goverment shall carry out monitoring and Evatuation through Direction                          CotLied
& 4.04             des Etudes et Projets (DEP). MINAGRI and provide work programs and reports
to 18RD. (i) Services and agencies of para 2.01 (b) ii of Project
Agreement (PA) - CIRA, Genie Rural, NINEO) to enter into Project execution
arrangement with UCCAO.
4.01 (c)           The Government shall make available to UCCAO the proceeds of I1RO and IFAD                         Not fully
loe. on a grant basis.                                                                            coelied
4.02               The Government shaLl deposit funds: ti) equivalent tc :he value of                                 Not complied
subsidies en fertilizers and chemicals by August 31 of each year; ard (ii)
necessary to cover its shares to project services and recurrent costs.
4.03               The Goverrvnent shalt ensure that UCCAO participates in the procurement of                         Complied
farm inputs and chemicals.
5.04               The Goverrnent and IBRD shall periodically exchange views with respect to                          Complied
input supply and agricultural pricing policies, and the qualifying area of
coffee replanting subsidy.
5.05               The government shall have periodic revision of the price fixing formula                           Complied
for coffee.



- 22 -
PROJECT COMPLON REPORT
CAMEROON
SECON=  WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJC
(LOAN 2406-CM)
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Ipt (Staffweeksl
TASK                fY81  FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85  FY86 FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92    fY93    TOTAL
Preparation                 17.2  79.9  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0    97.2
Appraisal                    0.0  28.2  30.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0             0.0    58.2
egotiatIons/Board            0.0   0.0  2.5  16.8  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0             0.0    19.3
Loan Processing (LOP)        0.0   0.8  19.1  6.5  0.0  0.2  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0             0.0    26.6
..... . ..    .....     ....  ..... ....     ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  .... . . ....  -----.. .... ......... .... ......... .... ..
Sub-total                 17.2  108.9 51.7 23.3  0.0  0.2  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0   201.3
Supervision                  0.0   0.0  0.0  3.5  21.0 20.4 25.8  16.9  10.8  11.2  15.2  14.5    10.4   149.7
Project Adninistration (PAD)  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0             0.0      1.0
Project Completlon Report    0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              6.2      6.2
,... ... .... ... .... .... ..... .... .....  ----  ----.  ----  ----.  ----    ..... .... ... ..... ...................
Sub-total                 0.0   0.0  0.0  3.8  21.3 25.6  26.0  16.9  10.8  11.2  15.2  14.5    16.6   156.9
TOTAL                    17.2  108.9 51.7 27.1  21.3 20.8 26.0  16.9  10.8  11.2  15.2  14.5    16.6   358.2
us _   #          U    UaU  3U3



-23-
B.  Mission (Staff and Consul
srYAE OF PIToU      MONTH/YEAR      NUMBR OP    STAFF WEBS   SPECIALTY          OVERALL         TYPE OF
CYCLE                               P E ASONS    IN FIELD       REPRERSPE    / P EIRMANCEI   PR3 IDdAM
THROUGH
0MENTOICATN         04/81              NA                             .
DWOWICATION         07/81               4              3        B/CB/CS/A
PRARATION           10181               6              3        E/A/FA/CS/C
.________                    PE
APPRAISAL           05/82
POSr-APPRALAL       03/84               6              3              _                             -
SUPERVISIDN
1           01/85               1             2                               -          FlPMt
2           07/85               3             2         FhACE/A              2           Mtl/P
3           10/86               2              1        A/E                  2             P/M
4           07/87               4             2         A/CS/S               3             F/IM
S           07/88               2             2         AE/B                  2            FP/M
6           06/89               3             2         A/AEIE               2             P/iM
7           08/90               1              1        A                    2             F/M
8           08/91               2             2         AEIA                 2             FP/
9           12/91               2             2         AE/A                  1            F/M
10          07/92                2             1        AE/A                  IP/M
.1/ E- Eoconnmt; A- Ageulturiet AE- Agricultural Econonist CE- Civl Engineer CS - Cooperatve Speist; FAA  Finanel Anesat
CPE- Coffee Proceting ExperL
g 1- eNo probem  or ny minor problems 2- Moderate Probls; 3- Major Problems.
IIF- Financial: T- Te"clictd M- M grlW.



