Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE Cor Li
Report No. P-3758-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$21.5 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 29, 1984
FILE COPY
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =  CFAF 392
CFAF 1,000       =  US$2.6
CFAF 1,000,000  =  US$2,550
ABBREVIATIONS
DEP             - Direction des Etudes et Projets - Ministry of
Agriculture
FONADER         - Fonds National de Developpement Rural
Genie Rural    - Rural Works Department of the Western
Province - Ministry of Agriculture
ICO             - International Coffee Organization
IFAD            - International Fund for Agricultural
Development
I&E             - Monitoring and Evaluation
RCF             - Revolving Credit Fund
UCCAO           - Union Centrale des Cooperatives
Agricoles de l'Ouest
FISCAL YEAR
UCCAO        - October 1 to September 30
Government   - July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:      Union Centrale des Cooperatives Agricoles de l'Ouest (UCCAO)
Amount:           US$21.5 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-
end fee.
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years grace at the standard variable
interest rates.
Cofinancing:      IFAD:  US$14.5 million equivalent
Flow of
Loan Proceeds:    - US$12.9 million as loan to UCCAO for onlending to
cooperatives and farmers at 11.25 % in PYl.
- US$8.2 million as grant to UCCAO.
- US$0.3 million for the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project
Description:      The five-year project would extend and consolidate opera-
tions on-going under the Western Highlands Rural Development
Project (Cr. 784-CM) to the whole Western Province, while
improving the relevance of the technical package to farmers'
needs. The focus would be on increased food crop production
and improvements in coffee yields and quality. The project
would include: (a) expansion and streamlining of UCCAO's
services, strengthening of cooperatives, modernization of
coffee processing and marketing facilities; (b) provision of
incremental inputs; and (c) supporting activities, including
applied research, village water supply, feeder roads, soil
conservation, reafforestation, bottomlands development,
monitoring and evaluation; technical assistance, fellowships
and studies would also be provided.
Benefits and
Risks:            The project would support several key Government
objectives: (i) reducing rural-urban income disparities and
slowing down urban migration by raising smallholder produc-
tivity and improving rural living conditions; (ii) promoting
national food self-sufficiency and generating additional
export earnings; and (iii) decentralizing development by
strengthening regional institutions. It would also promote
a gradual rationalization of fundamental policies in input
supply, commodity pricing, and interest rates.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the Performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The project faces three risks. The management risk is not
considered high, as the proposed activities would rely on
existing structures and systems, whose effectiveness would
be strengthened through improved procedures and controls,
combined with training. Reorganization of input supply
would reduce the risk of untimely and inadequate delivery of
fertilizers and pesticides to farmers. Financial weaknesses
of robusta cooperatives would be remedied through improve-
ments in the pricing system for coffee and in the management
and accounting procedures of the cooperatives.
Estimated Project Costs
Local     Foreign       Total
…US$ million------------
I.   UCCAO AND COOPERATIVES
A.  Project administration                0.4          2.3         2.7
B. Training, extension,
cooperative and
crop protection services          5.0          4.6         9.6
C.  Coffee processing                     3.0          7.1       10.1
8.4         14.0       22.4
II.   INCREMENTAL INPUTS
A.  Fertilizer and seeds                  0.4          4.6         5.0
B.  Crop protection chemicals             0.2          1.6         1.8
0.6          6.2        6.8
III.   SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES
A.  Applied research and seed farm        1.3          1.3         2.6
B.  Soil conservation/
afforestation                     0.8          0.2         1.0
C.  Feeder roads                          1.6          2.9         4.5
D.  Village water supply/
bottomlands development           2.2          1.5         3.7
E.  Monitoring and evaluation             0.5          0.4         0.9
6.4          6.3       12.7
TOTAL BASE COST                          15.4         26.5        41.9
IV.   CONTINGENCIES
- physical                                0.6          1.7         2.3
- price                                   5.7          5.8        11.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              21.7          34.0(a)    55.7
(including taxes)
(a) Including front-end fee (US$53,616).



Financing Plan
Local    Foreign      Total
-----US$ million -
IBRD                                             -          21.5        21.5
IFAD                                            2.0         12.5        14.5
Cameroonian contribution (including
Government, UCCAO, cooperatives
and farmers)                                 19.7          -          19.7
21.7        34.0        55.7
Estimated disbursements from the IBRD Loan
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
------------------US$ million-----------------
Annual                           0.2    3.0    4.3    6.5    4.3    2.3    0.9
Cumulative                       0.2    3.2    7.5   14.0   18.3   20.6   21.5
Rate of Return: about 30%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4177-CM
Naps: IBRD No. 16677 and 16678R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$21.5 million to
help finance a follow-up rural development project in the Western Province.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The bulk of loan proceeds would be made
available to UCCAO - Union Centrale des Cooperatives de l'Ouest - either as
loan (US$12.9 million) or as grant (US$8.2 million). Additional external
financing would be provided by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) with a loan amounting to US$14.5 million equivalent. The
IFAD loan would be on the same terms as the Bank's, except for the interest
rate which would be 4 % p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon--Economic Memorandum"
(N. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Since then, several economic and sector missions have visited Cameroon. Their
major findings are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I provides
basic country data.
Background
3.       Cameroon has a population of 9.1 million (1983) and covers an area of
475,000 km2. It is one of Africa's most diverse countries with a wide range
of climatic zones, ecological conditions, population densities, ethnic groups
and traditional cultures. Its main opportunities for development lie in the
expansion of agricultural, livestock, and forestry production; the exploita-
tion of energy and mineral resources; and the processing of agricultural,
forestry and mineral products for domestic consumption and export. Cameroon
became an oil producer in 1978 and is estimated to have produced over 6 mil-
lion tons of crude petroleum in 1983. In 1981, Cameroon began producing
refined petroleum products.
4.       Basically an agricultural economy at independence in 1960, Cameroon
has become increasingly urban with more than one-third of the population
living in cities in the early 1980s. Douala, the major port and industrial
center, and Yaounde, the capital, together account for about 40 % of the total
urban population. Main economic centers are separated by large areas of low
population density, making it costly to develop an adequate transport
network. Despite large investment over the past two decades, the network
remains rudimentary when considering Cameroon's size, level of development and



- 2 -
transit role vis-a-vis neighbouring landlocked countries. Large areas are
still isolated from the rest of the country and many major arteries are simply
not passable during the rainy season or need extensive upgrading to handle
existing, not to mention rapidly increasing traffic.
5.       Cameroon subscribes to a philosophy of "planned liberalism" and the
country's economic development has been pursued within a five-year investment
planning framework. The Fourth Plan period ended in June 1981, and the Fifth
Plan (1981-86) is now in effect. Cameroon's macroeconomic policies have been
prudent with emphasis on balanced regional development as part of the Govern-
ment's efforts to foster a sense of national unity. Thus, while until the
second half of the 1970s growth was comparatively moderate, the country has
enjoyed exceptional economic and social stability.
6.       1983 was a year of transition.  In November 1982, after about a
quarter of a century in power, President Ahidjo resigned in favour of his
constitutional heir, Prime Minister Paul Biya. Ten months later he resigned
from the Presidency of the Union Nationale Camerounaise (UNC), the only poli-
tical party, thus ending a bipolar power structure. In September 1983 Mr.
Biya became President of the party and in January 1984 he was confirmed as
President of Cameroon by popular vote. Over this past year, Mr. Biya has
promised a more open style of Government, more rigor in the management of
public funds and greater social justice. The new Government is committed to
economic liberalization, although still within the context of "planned libera-
lism", and to more open and participatory government. It has endorsed the
objectives of preserving a strong agricultural base, maintaining a high degree
of food self-sufficiency, and building up social and transport infrastructure,
especially highways, via a moderately enlarged investment program. It is
disposed towards improving the efficiency of state enterprises, possibly, in
some cases, through privatization.
Economic and Social Developments
7.       Over the past two decades the Government has managed to establish
favorable conditions for accelerated economic growth and fiscal stability.
Average growth was sluggish in the 1960s at 3.7 % per annum, but accelerated
to 6.3 % per annum in the 1970s and about 8 % in the early 1980s. Investment,
which was at a low 10 % of GDP in the early 1960s, grew to an average of about
20 % in the early 1970s and to 26 % in 1981. This growth was made possible by
the gradual easing of constraints to absorptive capacity, the increase in
domestic savings and more recently, oil resources. Before the surge in oil
exports in 1978-79, Cameroon registered small trade deficits, though modest
surpluses were recorded in 1973-74 and 1977-78. The small deficits on the
current account were amply offset by capital account flows, mainly public
borrowing. However, despite a tenfold increase in public indebtedness in
current terms during the past decade, the debt service ratio has consistently
remained under 10 %.
8.       Prior to 1978, Cameroon's economy, apart from a small manufacturing
sector concentrated in heavily protected import substitution activities, was
based essentially on agriculture. Agricultural products accounted for 72 % of
1978 export earnings, with coffee and cocoa alone accounting for 53 %.
However, oil production began in 1978 and it rapidly assumed a dominant
position in total exports (63 % in 1982) as well as representing an important
fraction of total GDP (11 % in 1981) .



- 3 -
9.       Although steady progress has been made in the well-being of the
population over the past two decades, much remains to be done in the social
sectors. Enrollments increased considerably at all levels of the educational
system, but its quality and efficiency deteriorated. Health-related indica-
tors are on the low side, considering Cameroon's overall level of economic
development. Life expectancy at birth is a low 50 years, the result of a
still high infant mortality rate. Inadequate health coverage, poor access to
water supply, lack of sanitation services in crowded urban areas, poor nutri-
tion and health practices are the main reasons for this high rate.
10.      In 1981, about 40 % of the rural population were considered to live
in absolute poverty, i.e. with an annual p.c. income of less than US$105
(1981). This explained the heavy rural outmigration to the cities of Yaounde
and Douala, where in 1981, absolute poverty, corresponding to an annual p.c.
income of US$238, was estimated to affect about 15 % of the population.
Indications are that this percentage is increasing.
Development Prospects and Issues
11.      The basic issue for Cameroon is to adjust to the oil and post-oil
era. Despite a variety of mineral resources, it is unlikely that their
exploitation will make up for the expected slow decline of oil production in
the late 1980s. Oil revenues offer a window of opportunity to meet pressing
requirements for investment and introduce policies aimed at preparing the
economy to the post-oil era. On the other hand, lack of caution in using
these revenues could have highly disruptive effects on the economic and social
fabric of the country. So far caution has prevailed. However, pressures for
an accelerated improvement of living conditions are mounting.
12.      In the longer term, the major issue is to cope with a fast-expanding
population. Although its growth rate at 2.7 % is low in the regional context,
it is accelerating.  Cameroon's population of about 9 million is expected to
reach 15 million by the end of the century. Urban population of 3 million
would increase to 9 million. Providing meaningful employment opportunities to
a vastly expanding urban labor force is and will remain the major challenge
for the Cameroonian authorities. At present only 22 % of the labor force is
employed outside agriculture, 9 % in industry and 13 % in services. If large-
scale unemployment is to be avoided in cities, about 2 million jobs would have
to be added to the existing 750,000 outside agriculture. In the meantime,
agriculture should generate employment at a higher rate than the 1 % achieved
annually over the past decade to absorb more than one-fourth of the
incremental labor force.
13.      The Government's major objectives in the Fifth Plan are to maintain
food self-sufficiency, improve income and living conditions in rural areas as
a means of slowing down migration to cities, provide health services and
adequate drinking water to a vastly expanded portion of the population and
greatly increase the supply of well-trained Cameroonians. These objectives
are consistent with Cameroon's present requirements. The projected annual GDP
growth rate of 7 % over the Fifth Plan period appears comfortably attainable.



- 4-
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
14.      Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from US$513
million at the end of 1976 to US$1.9 billion at the end of 1982. Debt service
payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$264 million in 1982, while
exports increased from US$700 million in 1976 to about US$2.3 billion in
1982. However, Cameroon's traditionally modest reliance on external financing
has been followed, during the oil era of increased financial independence, by
diminished recourse to external borrowing and some prepayment of foreign
loans. Gross disbursements against public and publicly guaranteed external
borrowing have declined sharply from a peak of US$566 million in 1980 to
US$181 million in 1982. Net transfers have fallen from a peak of US$389
millions in 1979 to minus US$83 million in 1982, when debt service payments
exceeded gross disbursements. Rising interest rates, a hardening of average
loan terms and the appreciation of the dollar increased Cameroon' s debt ser-
vice ratio to 11.6 % in 1982. The debt service ratio appears likely to remain
below 14 % for most of the rest of the decade, even allowing for a continued
decline in external lending to Cameroon on concessional terms. Cameroon is
basically creditworthy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
15.      Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of March 31, 1984, amounted
to US$791.1 million equivalent and covered 43 projects: 19 in agriculture, 13
in transportation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 2 small- and medium-
scale enterprise projects, 2 technical assistance projects and one urban
project. Transport and agriculture account respectively for about 44 and 40 %
of these commitments. IFC has invested in six enterprises, with total net
loan/equity commitments of US$14.4 million. The country was graduated from
IDA in FY82.
16.      Performance in project implementation is, on average, good in the
transport sector, mixed in agriculture and mediocre in other sectors. The
Government has generally shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank in
finding solutions, but implementation delays and setbacks have occurred, nota-
bly over the last year in the wake of recent political changes. In particu-
lar, the overall disbursement rate, which used to compare favorably with that
of most other countries, has slowed down due to administrative bottlenecks,
notably in the central procurement agency. Discussions on ways to streamline
procurement procedures are ongoing.
17.      The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support the
Government's development efforts in three main directions: (i) strengthening
and extending the road and rail trunk systems and improving the port of
Douala; (ii) raising agricultural output and exports; and (iii) improving
education. Until 1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank lending was
concentrated entirely in the transport, agriculture and education sectors.
Since 1975, Bank lending has diversified into forestry, small- and medium-
scale industry, urban development, technical assistance and telecommunica-
tions. For the immediate future, projects are being prepared in agriculture
to expand rural development and strengthen agricultural research; in transport
to upgrade/expand and maintain the road system; in education/manpower training



to support the demands of an increasing investment program; and in health for
the underserviced rural areas.
18.      Oil revenues are large enough to finance an expanded investment
program, but are expected to start declining in the late 1980s. The Govern-
ment of Cameroon would like the Bank to maintain an active assistance program
as: (i) a means of smoothing the availability of resources for development
finance; (ii) a vehicle for technical assistance in project design and imple-
mentation; (iii) a guarantee of impartiality in providing advice; and (iv) a
support for policy reform. The rationale for maintaining a sizeable Bank
program lies in the need to meet the country's increased and more complex
requirement for development assistance. In order to ensure productive use of
its oil revenues and to prepare for the post-oil era, the Government must make
critical decisions concerning the size and composition of the domestic invest-
ment program and the removal of the major development bottlenecks. The Bank's
major objectives are to strengthen the Government's policy making, investment
planning and implementing capabilities, promote private initiatives and reduce
the role of the parapublic sector in the economy, develop the country's human
resource base and improve the living conditions of lower income groups.
i9.      The Bank's objectives will increasingly be pursued through sectoral
approaches combining lending, intensified economic and sector work and techni-
cal assistance to the central and technical ministries. The Bank is in the
process of preparing and discussing with the Government strategy papers for
the major sectors with a view to reaching broad agreement on a macroeconomic
and sectoral policy framework. This dialogue is expected to pave the way
towards a more sectoral approach to lending in support of well-defined
Government programs. Key topics for discussion will be the role of the public
enterprise sector, trade liberalization and pricing policies, the pace and
pattern of resource development, technical skilled manpower constraints and
needs and Government administration reform.  For the years ahead, the nature
of the Bank's involvement is expected to shift towards fewer but larger
sectoral operations.
Donor Activities
20.      Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45 million a year, mostly in the form
of grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s, foreign aid
increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form of
grants. Bank and IDA financing amounted to about 23 % of total disbursements
and the Bank Group became the major public donor. Cofinancing has been
featured in 21 of the Bank projects and is being actively sought for several
projects under consideration.
21.      Cameroon's borrowing from private sources rose to over 40 % of
external financing in 1975-79, from only 11 % in 1967-69. Public external
debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1982, amounted to US$1.9
billion, 8.2 % of which was in the form of Bank loans and 8.5 % in IDA
credits. Bank loans in 1982 accounted for 6.4 % of public external debt
service and IDA credits for 0.7 %. By 1985, Bank loans and IDA credits are
projected to account for about 26 % of debt outstanding and about 14 % of debt
service.



- 6 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
22.      Agricuiture has traditionally been the cornerstone of the Cameroonian
economy, directly accounting, until 1978, for about 75 % of employment, 72 %
of export earnings, and 35 % of tax revenues. The sector's output ranges from
Sahelian crops and livestock in the North, through extensive forestry
resources in the East and South, to a variety of industrial crops (coffee,
cocoa, palm oil, rubber, sugar) and food crops in the rest of the country.
Food and beverage processing is dominant in manufacturing and agriculture
plays a major role in trade and transport.
23.      With the adv-nt of oil, the relative share of the agricultural sector
in the country's GDP and exports has declined (para. 8). Although these
trends are expected to continue for a few years, it is important for Cameroon
to maintain a strong and diversified agricultural base; firstly, to feed a
rapidly growing urban population without expanding food imports or costs of
living, and secondly, to maintain diversified sources of foreign exchange
earnings and assure the economic viability of the various regions for the
post-oil era. While the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1981-86) gives
priority to domestic food production, it is also essential that the tradition-
al export crops, which are faced with difficult market prospects, receive
specific attention to increase productivity and improve quality through
modernizing existing plantations. This modernization effort should be facili-
tated by the fact that oil development has provided a respite for the agricul-
tural sector by making Government less dependent on the taxation of industrial
crops for revenues.
24.      Over 90 % of output of the sector is produced by smallholders (food
crops for local markets and coffee, cocoa and cotton for export). The
remainder of production (mainly palm oil and rubber) originates from indust-
rial plantations, mostly Government, some foreign-owned. Conscious of the
possible risks which accompany oil exploitation, the Government, in the Fifth
Plan, stresses investments in the agricultural sector (24 % of total planned
expenditures), with particular focus on slowing down rural exodus, improving
income distribution and ensuring food self-sufficiency. The success of the
Government's policy will hinge on its ability to increase smallholder
productivity, particularly through the provision to farmers of better techni-
cal packages and adequate incentives, more effective training and extension
services, and modern inputs. Improved feeder roads, better credit services
and more efficient and decentralized administration will also be essential
ingredients of this effort. The proposed project would address these key
concerns.
Bank Strategy and Project Rationale
25.      The Bank's agricultural lending program, which commenced in 1967
and now totals US$333.9 million, has supported Government objectives, first
through plantation projects, followed by rural development projects, and more
recently through regional development projects combining food and export crops
with rural infrastructure. Government's performance in implementing these
projects has been mixed. Execution of the Second Livestock, the Zapi and the



- 7 -
Oil Palm/Rubber Consolidation Projects is hampered by serious organizational,
managerial and financial problems, for which the required remedies are being
examined with Government. For the other projects, the record has been gene-
rally good and achievements satisfactory. In the future, regional development
will continue to be a priority, but specific assistance will also be given to
sector wide projects addressing the constraints to productivity gains (e.g.
agricultural research, extension, credit, input supply). Policy reform and
institution building will continue to be central elements of the Bank's stra-
tegy. In this context, there is a strong rationale for Bank involvement in
the project. Firstly, it would tackle the key issues of low productivity and
rural exodus by furthering the development and adoption of better technical
packages and improving income distribution in the most densely populated area
of the country. Analysis of the impact of this process by monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) units provided for at three levels (project, provincial,
central) would give valuable insights into the dynamics of rural outmigra-
tion. Secondly, the project would be a vehicle for helping rationalize the
Government's pricing and subsidization policies. Finally, it would promote
the decentralisation of decision-making by strengthening UCCAO, the most
successful development entity in the agricultural sector.
The Coffee Subsector
26.      Cameroon is the world's ninth largest producer of coffee, with an
annual output averaging 90,000 tons (2.4 % of world market), 75 % being
robusta and 25 %, arabica. About 45 % of the country's coffee exports and
nearly all of its arabica production originates in the Western Province.
World coffee prices have been depressed in recent years due to over supply and
static demand, a situation expected to continue for the next decade. To help
stabilize world prices, the International Coffee Organization (ICO) regularly
reviews the export quotas which it assigns to its member producing coun-
tries. In view of the poor prospects for the world coffee market, the World
Bank has adopted a policy of restricted involvement in the sector. Incre-
mental output under this project would come solely from increased yields from
existing plantations and quality improvements and would remain within
Cameroon's quota.
27.      The sub-sector has been faced with three main problems.  The first
concerns the supply of fertilizers and pesticides, which for specific crops
such as coffee, is handled by the Government at a subsidy. Until recently,
these subsidies were financed out of unpredictable export levies on coffee and
cocoa. The deliveries were persistently late and insufficient and the quali-
ties were inappropriate. This issue was a major topic for discussion during
preparation of the project and prompted the Bank to commission a study which
recommended extensive revision of the existing system, including a phasing out
of subsidies coupled with corresponding increases in producer prices to main-
tain farmers' income. The Government appreciates the desirability of reducing
subsidies but is not under strong fiscal pressure to change its policy and
antagonize a large number of farmers. On the other hand, it has acknowledged
the organisational problems involved, and in 1983, introduced the following
changes: (i) timing: the funding of subsidie8 is now included in the budget;
(ii) quantity: the funds necessary to support current subsidy levels have been
substantially increased; and (iii) quality: a technical commission, with
representatives of users (including UCCAO), has been established to advise the
Central Tender Board on appropriate brands of chemicals. Building up on this,



- 8 -
assurances were received from Government that: (i) subsidies would be
deposited by August 31 of each year and applied to suppliers invoices; (ii)
measures already taken would be maintained to ensure a 1 nmely and adequate
supply of fertilizers and crop protection chemicals to the project area; and
(iii) UCCAO would continue to participate in the input pcocurement process.
To improve the efficiency of the present system, the Government's input supply
and agricultural pricing policies would be reviewed at rrgular intervals with
the Bank (Sections 4.02(c), 4.03 and 5.04 of the draft LI,)an Agreement).
28.      The second problem is the less favorable price iacentives hitherto
paid to robusta cooperatives for transport and processing, compared to their
arabica counterparts. Recognizing this, the Government increased the margin
for robusta processors in the 1982 season. In search of a more permanent
solution, assurances were obtained from the Government that the periodic
revisions of the price fixing formula ('bareme") for both robusta and arabica
coffee would take account of the cooperatives' full costs (Section 5.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
29.      Finally, the coffee grown in the Western Province, although of poten-
tially premium grade, suffers quality losses due to inefficient processing at
all levels and financial penalties due to slow export administration proce-
dures. In view of this, and the poor market prospects for coffee, the project
would emphasize improving quality at all stages of coffee growing and proces-
sing, reducing costs and streamlining marketing arrangements. To increase the
efficiency of processing and transport, an action plan is being prepared by
UCCAO on the basis of a recently completed study on coffee marketing. This
plan would be submitted by September 30, 1984, to the Bank for its approval
and would be implemented within 12 months of receipt of approval (Section 3.06
of the draft Project Agreement).
Institutions
30.      The cooperative movement has been promoted by the Government since
independence as a way of decentralizing the provision of rural services and
its present membership comprises nearly 40 % of the country's rural popula-
tion. The cooperative organizations vary widely in efficiency and maturity.
The most successful is UCCAO (Union Centrale des Cooperatives Agricoles de
l'Ouest) in the Western Province, which is the apex of a system involving six
departmental cooperatives, some 230 cooperative centers and over 50 service
centers.
31.      These six departmental cooperatives (four predominantly arabica, two
robusta) collect, process and market the locally produced coffee, sell inputs
and extend a limited amount of credit. They are basically viable and have a
fairly unified structure. In general, they have not only met their primary
goal of servicing even remote farms, but have also become sufficiently
established to be able to perform a wide range of agricultural functions. The
cooperatives have been the main source of credit to farmers, the other source
being the Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER). However, as the
cooperatives do not have a rural banking system of their own, they, themsel-
ves, have had to borrow from FONADER or from commercial banks. They offer
seasonal credit, in cash or kind, often secured on the coffee harvest, and
medium-term credit (2-5 years) for the purchase of agricultural or storage
equipment.  In 1981/82, some 20 % of their members received loans totalling



US$1.2 million equivalent at 9 % annual interest. Despite a major effort to
rationalize record keeping, which brought up the recovery rate from 78 to 97 %
over the last four years, the growth of cooperative credit operations remains
thwarted by the absence of standardized procedures and of a monitoring system,
insufficiently trained managerial staff, and financial dIfficulties. The
cooperatives' net profits have deteriorated since 1979 under the combined
effect of declining world coffee prices, increased farm gate prices for
arabica and weak financial controls. Overall, however, because they transfer
part of their surpluses to a reserve fund, the cooperatives retain a
comfortable liquidity position.
32.      During preparation of the project, a consultant study on Organization
and Management (O&M), financed under the first project, analyzed these defi-
ciencies and recommended specific remedial actions, i.e. a strengthening of
management and training, a rationalization of accounting and records proce-
dures and better organization for coffee processing and m,rketing. In view of
the critical importance of a strong and effective cooperative network for
successful project execution, assurances were obtained that, as a condition
for disbursement against their coffee processing investments, UCCAO and the
cooperatives would adopt these remedial actions and would submit to the Bank
an acceptable detailed investment plan (Schedule 1, para. 3(ii)(3) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
33.      UCCAO is wholly owned by its member cooperatives and has extensive
jurisdiction over cooperative operations in the Province. The Union was cre-
ated in 1958 and organized around arabica coffee, the region's main crop.
UCCAG has contributed significantly to the successful development of arabica
production and marketing in the area, thanks to supportive members, the buo-
yant coffee market during the 1970s, a competent general manager, and the fact
that it is licensed to export arabica coffee. Until 1978, UCCAO dealt exclu-
sively with arabica coffee, for which it enjoys monopoly purchasing and export
rights. In 1978, its role was enlarged to handle robusta coffee and wider
agricultural development activities. UCCAO provides centralized services and
its operating costs are financed by its members. Largely because it lacks
well trained personnel in certain key posts, a sound accounting system and an
efficient credit mechanism, it has not yet achieved all of its broader objec-
tives, such as providing training and technical advice to its members or
stimulating rural savings. Nonetheless, UCCAO has reached the size (100,000
members) and maturity necessary to become an effective rural development
agency and the weaknesses would be rectified under the project.
34.      Although most of the losses on robusta processing operations
(para. 28) are passed on to the robusta cooperatives, the affiliation of the
latter drastically weakened the liquidity of UCCAO. Additionally, as UCCAO
has failed to make provision for doubtful debts and other items, its stated
net equity of about US$2 million would require considerable adjustments to
accurately reflect its position, and its financial ratios overstate its abi-
lity to finance new investments or to absorb losses. The project incorporates
the 0 & M study recommendations, notably to strengthen the financial and
accounting operations through *a standardization of procedures, tighter
controls and staff training.
35.      FONADER.  An autonomous Government agency established in 1973 to
extend credit and support rural development, FONADER is funded by annual



- 10 -
subsidies and transfers from the stabilization fund or the Government. Under
the Western Highlands project, a Revolving Credit Fund (RCF), administered by
UCCAO, was created and funded by FONADER (US$2.5 million) and UCCAO (US$1.4
million) to extend seasonal and medium-term credit. Such credit has been
fully repaid by the cooperatives through deductions from payments to farmers
for their coffee. Under the project, the flow of funds would be simplified,
and FONADER's role would be limited to financing the subsidized fraction of
fertilizers and crop protection chemical purchases.
First Project
36.      The Western Highlands Rural Development Project, covering the high
plateau arabica coffee zone, was financed by a US$13 million IDA credit (Cr.
784-CM) which became effective on December 8, 1978. This project encompassed
three of the six administrative departments in the Province and was designed
to strengthen existing structures and provide farmers (growing both coffee and
food crops) with a complementary package of inputs, techniques, and basic
infrastructure. Start up was slow due to administrative delays, but imple-
mentation gained momentum in 1980. In addition to its impact on regional
production, the project's main success lies in its institution-building
effects in the areas of planning and organization, training and extension.
With a twelve-month postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1984, about
85 % of the physical objectives will be achieved at completion, still leaving
the economic rate of return at about 17 %, against an estimated 20 % at
appraisal. The main deviation from appraisal has been a spontaneous shift of
production away from coffee towards more foodcrops, in response to a change in
relative prices. Given the uncertain market prospects for coffee and
Government's current emphasis on food production, this trend would be better
monitored, coordinated and technically supported. The first project did not
sufficiently stress improvements in coffee quality and marketing. This
concern, and the need to strengthen the involvement of the six cooperatives,
have guided the preparation of the second project and defined some of its key
objectives. The main constraint encountered during execution was the
inadequate provision of subsidized inputs, a problem which is now being
addressed (para. 27). Project development was also hampered by the
operational difficulties encountered by the Feeder Roads Project (Cr. 749CM -
Ln. 1494CM) which delayed the construction of 900 km of Category A_1/Feeder
Roads important for ensuring input supply and produce marketing in the
region. However, the Feeder Roads operations have now been decentralized and
a provincial unit of the Ministry of Equipment has been created in the Western
Province with three brigades. As a result, the essential Category A Feeder
Roads are now expected to be completed in time to allow construction, under
the project, of some 500 km of Category B Feeder Roads linking the A network
to the more isolated, poorer parts of the Province. In view of the paramount
importance of this component for the achievement of the new project's produc-
tion goals, disbursement would be conditional upon recruitement of key staff
and, thereafter, yearly disbursements against Category B Feeder Roads would be
conditional upon: (i) evidence of adequate operation of the provincial
feeder roads unit; and (ii) submission by July 1 of each year of a satis-
factory annual work program based on the completed Category A roads
1/ Category A Feeder Roads can accomodate over 300 vehicles/day; Category B,
between 150 and 300.



- I11 -
(Schedule 1, para. 3(ii) (1) & (2) of the draft Loan Agreement). These mea-
sures are expected to avoid the recurrence of the problems encountered under
the first project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      With up to 220 inhabitants/km2 (vs. a national average of 18 inhabi-
tants/km2), the Western Province has the highest population density in the
country. Population pressure has had the double effect of stimulating migra-
tion to the cities and increasing the intensity of cultivation, with a
concomitant risk of erosion. Soils in the project area have medium fertility,
and the farms, averaging 2 ha, follow an intensive rainfed mixed cropping
regime, with men cultivating coffee and women, food crops. However, the need
for a "whole farm" approach essential to the welfare of the entire population
of the Province has not yet received sufficient attention. The average cash
income for the Province is only about US$450 per family, as against a national
per capita GNP of US$880 in 1982.
38.      The objectives of the project would be to extend the benefits of the
first operation to the whole Province, so as to include the less fertile
areas, while correcting the inequities and inadequacies already noted. The
overall good performance under the first project, the need to provide support
to the robusta areas, the importance of the region for national food supplies,
and the better than average project management prompted a favorable reaction
by the Bank to the Government's request for a follow-up project. Preparation
concentrated on refining the technical crop package, improving the input
supply system and diagnosing the financial and organizational deficiencies of
the departmental cooperatives and UCCAO, with the ultimate goal of raising
both the value of coffee exports and smallholder productivity. Negotiations
took place in Washington from November 30 - December 7, 1984. The Cameroonian
delegation was led by His Excellency Paul Pondi, Ambassador to the U.S. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4177CM dated March 19, 1984) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary project data are given in Annex III of the present
report.
Project Description
39.      The Project, to be executed over 5 years, would be comprised of the
following:
(a) UCCAO and cooperatives: physical expansion of UCCAO's field services (exten-
sion and crop protection) to all six provincial departments; training, techni-
cal assistance, and fellowships to reorganize the financial services and
upgrade the skills of extension and cooperative staff; construction, moderni-
sation or expansion and equipment of cooperative and central coffee processing
factories.
(b) Inputs: provision of incremental seeds, chemicals and light equipment.
(c) Supporting activities: carrying out of adaptive research and expansion of
seed production; establishment of about 450 water points; construction and
maintenance of about 500 km of Category B feeder roads; soil



- 12 -
conservation/reafforestation activities on about 850 ha; development and
cultivation of a total of 700 ha of bottomlands; expansion of the existing
Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) and Central Evaluation Unit (CEU), and
establishment of an antenna of the CEU at the provincial level (PEU).
Organization and Management
40.      As for the first project, UCCAO would be the project-executing agency
which would utilize and develop existing structures with the assistance of a
Coordinating Committee. Implementation of the waterpoints, research and
feeder roads components would be contracted to specialised Government services
under agreements to be signed by September 30, 1984 (Section 2.01 (b) (ii) and
(c) of draft Project Agreement). In order to strengthen UCCAO's general
administration and financial services, as well as those of the cooperatives, a
financial and administrative director and a chief accountant, both qualified
Cameroonians, have been hired, and nine specialists--all with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank--would be recruited internationally for
2 to 5 year periods to improve operations and provide training in specific
technical aspects of the project. Loan effectiveness would be conditional
upon the signing of a contract for the three key specialists, i.e. UCCAO's
directors of production and technical services and a financial controller
(Section 7.01 (c) of draft Loan Agreement). The project services would
operate autonomously on the basis of annual work programs and budgets and with
periodic progress reports, all to be submitted to the Bank. The cooperatives
would adopt standardized procedures for accounting, financial, credit and
transport operations.
41.      Extension, Training of Farmers and Cooperatives Staff.  The doubling
of the project area over the first project, the emphasis on "whole" farm
approach and the need for greater precision in agricultural operations would
require the recruitment of additional extension workers. These would include
female agents to help women improve food crop production. For overall super-
vision of agricultural production in the Province, the Government wishes to
maintain the Ministry of Agriculture's extension supervisors at the departmen-
tal level in addition to UCCAO's personnel. To avoid duplication of efforts,
effectiveness of the Bank loan would be conditional upon a Government commit-
ment to entrust the technical and organizational aspects of extension in the
project area to the UCCAO service (Section 7.01(d) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The training center, established under the first project, would
receive additional staffing and equipment to expand and strengthen its pro-
gram.
42.      Cost Recovery for Bottomlands and Water Points.  For water points and
bottomlands, the arrangements envisaged under the first project for recovery
of full development costs proved to be unrealistic, but the principle of full
recovery of maintenance costs in the form of labor contributions plus payment
of an annual levy by the beneficiaries has been accepted and assurances have
been obtained accordingly. Developments would be preceded by the formation of
village management committees and the signing of agreements between UCCAO and
each community involved, defining the modalities of their contribution to
maintenance (Sections 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.09 and 2.11 of
the draft Project Agreement).



- 13 -
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
43.      Total project costs are estimated at US$55.7 million (end-1983
prices). This includes identifiable taxes and duties (US$7.1 million),
primarily on local salaries, vehicles, equipment and construction material.
The net-of-tax total project cost is US$48.6 million. As under the first
project, the project would be exempt of duties on imported items. The foreign
exchange component is expected to be about 60 % of total cost (US$34
million).  Total contingencies amount to 25 % of total costs.  Physical
contingencies of 8 % have been applied to all costs except salaries. Annual
price contingencies have been estimated at 12 % for local costs, 10 % for
foreign personnel, 9 % for fertilizers and pesticides; and for all other
foreign expenditures: 7.5 % (1984), 7 % (1985), and 6 % thereafter.
Technical assistance (45 man-years, all internationally recruited) has been
priced at the cost of US$110,000/year (inclusive of all except housing), in
line with recent experience in Cameroon.
44.      External financing for the project of US$36 million, would cover the
total foreign exchange component, plus US$2 million of local costs (IFAD
financed, para. 48). It would consist of loans from the Bank (US$21.5
million, including the front end fee, or 44 % of net total costs) and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) (US$14.5 million, about
30 %). The domestic contribution--i.e. US$14.6 million from the Government,
US$4.6 million from UCCAO, and US$0.5 million from farmers--would cover the
remaining local costs (about 35 % of the total costs). The Bank loan would be
made to the Government for 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at the Bank's
variable interest rate. It would be deployed as follows:
- US$8.2 million as a grant to UCCAO for the nonrevenue-earning compo-
nents of the project;
- US$12.9 million as a loan to UCCAO for 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, to be on-lent to the cooperatives for the coffee processing
equipment (US$7.1 million) and to farmers for small equipment (US$3.3
million) and seasonal inputs (US$2.5 million); and
- US$0.3 million for MINAGRI's evaluation units.
45.      The IFAD loan would be on the same terms but with a 4 % interest
rate. The foreign exchange and the interest rate risks would be borne by the
Government. Both loans would be linked by a cross-effectiveness clause. Bank
loan effectiveness would be conditional upon: (i) the signing of a subsidiary
loan agreement between Government and UCCAO, governing the on-lending of funds
for the seasonal and medium-term credit and the coffee factories investments;
and (ii) replenishment of the UCCAO project account established under the
first project to a level of CFAF 400 million initially (Section 7.01 (a), (e)
and (f) of draft Loan Agreement) and each quarter thereafter (Section 4.02 (a)
of draft Loan Agreement).
46.      Credit and the on-lending rate.  Under the present policy of BEAC,
the Central Bank of the Central African States of which Cameroon is a member,
social sectors (agriculture, low cost housing, SME) have access to credit at
preferential rates (3.5 to 10 %). However, Bank loan proceeds for credit
under the project would be passed on by Government to UCCAO at 10 %, to be on-



- 14 -
lent at a final rate of 11.25 % in PY1 as follows:
(i) US$5.8 million would be channelled through UCCAO's revolving
credit fund (RCF) and the cooperatives to farmers for seasonal and medium-term
(2-5 years) credit. A credit unit would be established in each cooperative,
whose members would jointly and severally guarantee full repayment of all
credit out of coffee sales; and
(ii) US$7.1 million would be made available (for 20 years with 5
years' grace) to UCCAO and the cooperatives for coffee factory investments.
These funds would be repaid into a national cooperative investment account.
47.      The proposed final rate of 11.25 % would fall in the range of
commercial rates in the country (10-18 %) and would represent a substantial
increase of 2.25 %age points over the rate applied under the first project.
This rate, while in line with the inflation rate experienced in Cameroon in
recent years (currently estimated at 12 %), would not be positive in real
terms over the project implementation period, as inflation is expected to
accelerate under the impact of increased oil revenues. Additionnally, the
1.25 % margin available to UCCAO and the cooperatives may prove insufficient
to cover administrative costs. Therefore, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that each year the final on-lending rate would be: (i) reviewed
by UCCAO (taking into account agreed upon criteria); and (ii) after
consultation with the Bank, revised thereafter if appropriate (Section 2.08 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.      All goods, works and services under the project would be procured
following Bank Guidelines. Contracts of US$100,000 or more (imported equip-
ment, vehicles, and chemicals) totalling about US$22.5 million (Bank, US$10.8
million) would be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB).
Goods manufactured in Cameroon would be allowed a preference of 15 % of c.i.f.
price on imported goods or the level of applicable duties, whichever is
lower. Contracts between US$20,000 and US$100,000 (civil works, small equip-
ment), expected to total about US$10.1 million (Bank: US$4.3 million), would
be procured following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank. For contracts under US$20,000 (small equipment), direct procurement on
the basis of at least three quotations would be allowed up to a total not
exceeding US$2.1 million (Bank: US$0.5 million). Local competitive bidding
would also apply to civil works for feeder roads, water points and bottomland
development (US$3.0 million, Bank: US$0.5 million) which is unlikely to
attract foreign bidders because of its low unit cost, geographic dispersion
and phasing over time; if no firm should prove available, these works would be
done under force account. A total of about 45 man-years of technical assis-
tance would be internationally recruited following Bank guidelines (total
US$5.2 million; Bank US$2.5 million); the remaining expenditures (US$11.1 mil-
lion; Bank US$2.9million) represent personnel and other operating costs.
49.      The Bank loan would be disbursed over about 6 years.  Cofinancing
would be undertaken jointly on a pari passu basis (about 50:50) except for the
coffee-related components (Bank) and incremental extension staff salaries
(IFAD), which would be disbursed on a parallel basis (85 and 10 % of eligible
expenditures respectively). For the joint elements, the Bank and IFAD loans



- 15 -
would be applied to eligible expenditures as follows: (a) 95 % of expatriate
staff-related expenses, fellowships and studies; (b) 85 % of the costs of
vehicles, equipment, maintenance; and (c) 70 % of the costs of civil works,
incremental fertilizers, seeds and chemicals. About US$0.8 million of the
Bank loan would be unallocated. Disbursements would be fully documented,
except for feeder roads construction, if carried out under force account, and
the local operating costs and local staff salaries (IFAD), for which certified
statements of expenditures reviewed by UCCAO would be used. Supporting
documentation would be retained for inspection by Bank missions.
Accounts and Auditing
50.      The project would continue to upgrade UCCAO's Financial Department
via the recruitment of a financial controller and short term consultancies. A
common accounting system would be put into place to produce detailed records
and financial analysis which would be verified by auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Their report would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Markets and Prices, Financial Implications
51.      The project is expected to generate output increases of 17 % for both
coffee and the principal food crops. The ICO export quota for Cameroon allows
for a modest increase of 1.3 % p.a. over the next decade, but the project's
incremental output through 1992 (8,000 tons) would remain well below this
limit. A drop in prices is forecast until the 1990s. This would be partly
offset by a progressive reduction of the penalties applied by foreign buyers
to UCCAO, which would result from improved quality and marketing operations.
Market prospects for food crops are favorable, as local demand has been
increasing under the combined effect of population growth, urbanization and
improvements in living standards. Most of the project output would be sold in
the urban centers of the Province, through the existing private channels. The
rest would find an easy outlet in Douala and Yaounde.
52.      With the increases in production expected to result from improved
input supplies, the incremental net cash income/incremental cash cost ratio
for farmers would be above 2.5, demonstrating sufficient incentives for them
to take the financial risks involved in the project. Following the revision
of the bareme, the UCCAO consolidated cash flow would be increasingly positive
during implementation, providing the Government with additional taxation
opportunities. By PY12, UCCAO would be in a position to wholly finance the
recurrent costs associated with the project. The Government cash flow would
be initially negative due to project expenditures, but would become positive
by PY8, as the value of coffee exports would increase (US$19 million by
PY6). The Government would therefore be in a position to meet its financial
obligations, whether direct project expenses or associated recurrent costs.
Benefits and Risks
53.      The project would serve several important Fifth Plan objectives:
(a) to improve income distribution by helping the poorer inhabitants of the
Province increase their productivity and cash income; (b) to slow down rural
exodus; (c) to contribute to national food self-sufficiency; and (d) to decen-
tralize agricultural development by strengthening cooperatives and UCCA0, a



- 16 -
regional institution. The directly quantifiable benefits include the value of
production, estimated at US$15 million (1983 terms) for coffee and US$18 mil-
lion for food crops. This would permit a 50 % increase (to about $600/year)
in the cash income of about 85,000 families, half of whom would be new
participants. Other benefits, equally important, although more difficult to
quantify, include the project's institution-building effects on the coopera-
tive movement, actions in favor of women (extension, training, access to
credit) and improvements in the quality of life provided by rural
infrastructure.
54.      The economic rate of return, computed only for the quantifiable bene-
fits on total incremental costs, is high at 30 %. The project would be only
moderately sensitive to unfavorable developments, and would still yield
economic rates of return of about 16 % with a 30-% reduction in participation,
and over 13 % with a 2-year lag in benefits. The project management risk is
not considered high, as the proposed activities would rely upon existing
structures successfully developed during the first project. Reorganization of
the system of input procurement and distribution would reduce the risks of
untimely and inadequate input supply. Finally, the assurances received
regarding the revision of the coffee price fixing formula and the operations
of the cooperatives would limit the financial risks of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.      The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Cameroon and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Union Centrale des
Cooperatives Agricoles de l'Ouest (UCCAO), and the Repc-.. of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Art. les of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately
56.      Special conditions of the Project are referred to in this report and
in Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) employment
of three key technical specialists; (ii) signing of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment between Government and UCCAO; (iii) transfer to UCCAO of the responsabi-
lity for technical and organizational aspects of extension in the project
area; (iv) deposit, by Government, into the Project Account, of an amount
sufficient to bring its level to CFAF 400 million; and (v) fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement (Section 7.01
of the draft loan Agreement). Special conditions of disbursement would be:
(i) against feeder roads, recruitement of a roads engineer and a mechanic, and
submission by July 1 of each year of: (A) satisfactory annual work program
based on completed Category A roads, and (B) evidence of adequate operation of
the provincial feeder roads unit; and (ii) against individual department
cooperatives: (A) adoption of appropriate remedial measures and (B) submission
of a detailed investment plan (Schedule 1, para. 3 (ii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
57.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 29, 1984
f



ANNEX I
-  18  -                                       Page 1 of 7
TA  LE  3A                                            PAGE I
CAlEROON                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAEROON                                 IEPEREtNC. GOU IGHTED  AVERAGES) 1l
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
t9~0lb  1,72/b   ECENT  lb          MIDDLE INCOQE            MIDDLE INCOtE
A T11 DS 1X1960-  1970- ESTIATh-     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA A MID EAST
AMI  OTUm      SQ.- U)
TOTAL                                 475.4       475,4        475.4
AGRICULTURAL                          146.9       142.8        152.3
GCr PR CAPITA (VS$)                      160.0       260.0        880.0/c           1147.9                     1340.0
hU OG CO JTIOW PXI CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         79.0       119.0        154.0              724.2                      810.4
POPULATION ASD YITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    5681.0        6781.0       8668.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         13.9         20.3         35.9               28.5                       47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                14.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  43.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ktt.                         11.9        14.3         17.8               56.5                       36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              38.7         47.5         55.4              131.8                      449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           38.9         40.5         41.3               45.9                       43.9
15-64 YRS                           57.0         51-5         34.2               51.2                       52.8
65 AND ABOVE                         4.1          4.1          4.4                2.8                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.4         1.8          2.2                2.8                        2.9
URBAN                                4.9          5.6          7.4                5.3                        4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          42.9         42.0         42.6               47.6                       42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          27.1         22.2         17.0               15.2                       12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8         2.8          2.8                3.2                        3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                   ..
FOOD AND NUETION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         89.0        101.0        102.0               95.7                       97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        91.0         93.0        105.0               97.1                      102.3
PROTEINS (GRMS PER OAY)             49.0         53.0         60.0               56.0                       72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           11.0        14.0         16.0/d             17.2                       17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           36.3         28.0         20.4               23.6                       15.2
ErLTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          37.2        42.2         50.1               51.9                       57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        162.5        133.7        106.5              117.6                      104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         26.0/e             25.4                       59.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         35.o071            70.5                       84.9
RURAL                                  '            '         22.07;             12.3                       37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           48110.0      30140.0      13670.0            12181.6                     3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             3280.0/f,g  2720.0        1910.0             2292.0                     1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               540.0/g     560.0/h      370.0/d           1075.4                      643.3
URBAN                               51 O.f ,R   300.07W      200.071            402.3                      545.0
RURAL                               53 0&IL,0   720.O7ih     610.071           3926.7                     2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..           ..                 ..                       26.4
HOUS0ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ,            ,          5.2/e
URBAN                                 ..           ..          5. 17
RURAL                                  ..           ..         5. 2..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ' ''
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  '           '           6.7/e                                        46.2
URBAN                                  ..          ..         2 2. 67              ..                       77.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..         O.5/e               ..                       16.1
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _     _      _     _     _     _     _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_  _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ _ - -_ - -_ - -_ -_ _ - -_ - -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _-_ _ -_ - _ -



ANNEX I
- 19-                                                    Page 2 of 7
T A R L C  3A                                          PACf 2
CAMFROON                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
bRECENT  /b         MIDDLE INCOfE           MIDDLE INCMtCE
196-/b      1970/b  ESTIMATE-         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATIOR
ADJUSTED ENROLL.Mr T RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     65.0        91.0        104.0               97.2                        89.6
MALE                     87.0        106.0        113.0              103.1                      104.8
FEMALE                   43.0         77.0         94.0               88.5                       72.4
SEGONDARY: TOTAL                      2.0          8.0        18.0                17.2                       41.7
HALF.                     4.0         11.0         23.0               23.5                       52.8
FEMALE                    1.0          4.0         12.0               14.2                       31.2
VOCATlONAL (2 Of SECONDARY)            23.0         22.8        26.9                 5.2                       10.3
PUPL-TEACHER RATIO
PatMARY                                ..        4R.0         52.0               42.9                        31.9
SECONDARY                              ..         21.0        25.0                23.7                       23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                18.9ff       12.0           .                37.1                       43.3
cONSUMr ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.7          4.9         9.1/i              18.8                       18.0
RADIO RECEIVERStTHOUSAND POP            1.7         31.3        90.0                97.8                      138.1
TV REC£IVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..           ..           ..               18.6                       45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                1.2          2.5         3.4                18.2                       31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         0.1           ..          I.0               0.6                        1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            2907.0       3299.0      3920.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     43.0        42.7         41.5                36.1                       10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                87.0         85.0        83.0                56.8                       42.5
INDIISTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0         6.0          7.0               17.5                        27.8
PARTICIrPATtON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2         48.7        45.2                37.0                       25.6
MALE                                 59.9         57.0         53.9               47.1                       45.4
FEMALE                               42.9         40.6        36.8                27.0                        5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9          1.0                1.3                        1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF ROUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..          ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
LOWEST 40i OF1 HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET CROJPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       238.0/1             534.2                      276.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..       105.07?            255.9                       177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..             491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..             188.1                       283.3
ESTIMATEO POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERrY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         15.0/i               ..                       22.0
RURAL                                   .           ,.        40.0-T                ..                       30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
.NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on svailability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Fiscal year 'July-June; /d 1977: /e 1976; /f 1962; /g Includtng ox-South Cameroon under British administration;
lh 1968; /i 1978; /j 1974.
May 1983



-20 -ANNEX I
y,Paer3 f 7
Sf N811mm 0! SOCIAL IStICIUtS
ft-na    Alttnaah tt dataa.    de.    maacnpnelyjWtg W t  tet   aat taeaantt an   calat.,i   todat   antdta   tytynth   uentoa
d-aoeba   ctao   aatd.tdteateS     n                        htoata   eti                 byin   dtff-cnet httandoo,nthaa
Jtanfnot   r,- t   I  at                   ntte  ~tnp nIf ta  abjato    tdantY td (2) a  t.atry getnp tith an.ahtt  htjhaeoef    ot  ta   I   onryaopo   h
th.a nnr   aontfc'almn.  Otlpcat   no the.   'dItdl  Innt   et  dlcen   td tteat" I-rh                                            ... ha .  t-t atc-oehe  aoa-toYi-nufc          h
U                                     dAta (fnnanaad  aq.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~t..t    i~:- PSeoltttnt dtntdPtdtby noahee of pednottotdg
T.t.1                                                                   P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~obt  anP ecl)dnt1 ythI       Wtpc tot noate  ofhotatbd
-tf...       peenatt   aali.a  an notant tacta    petOta                                Itaat   nphf   n    ntt    tnaladfnlladha                                   n
t968,1 tOO.ad19   ea,f a   aa o.  phynlnan. tIfhl-f-ataa  pcetd- -                                                                                                      pctnt       ..ll  nondal
190 MIt   n  tn    aa                                                                              ce  hopnP.toed   iheplota/toma   fto.pta   and-nleltff
nt.n   aynli  ramtc                   tJanlaltatd                                                                           P.ylal  ... Inolo ad  f.dbyondatotn.11-01b           .
.,WaathC.aaa -        l-atIfnnna  -d   fJlytIil  1                           p7t.;an  Itifd                    tn  net toeta a'          - Ttlnthto  tn.toa                  toot olacentt
dafa.                                                                                                    tent.A1%0d..    hoapatalt diodadft Wg  thenaa  of htda. 
nntu  nootctaat tll.  - - - an t-f  date.       y1;190  1970taaa19O1Iaa o    oaol nrToln                                                 - oa   Ifo aod) - total1. oa   adi- tonal
tattoo  Pcn tnttoaa                                                      - ft bontaho~~~~~ld nonalactd oy ah ao  - of  bndtodatOtoteatnigqat
naplt lcnaa lnaI   fnd fa 9al       i:tta  anacac   aa-blttani t0.                            e)lnt, fanottol.   battta  tottOU-aSINnGatott.  n
atnanadal-atn  aatttantdt.t.n.alet   n   aafntyOoat   tnct  n   otato  dantlat  -tonl.otan  nod to tal
P-leanla   pafna       0cn   SaI  onoot..     I .he paiJt;t ...   of. ahtaadtna C9nnant tonal dnnltnmAtt-yrcttyt   ttto   qo-y r  aa tncrnnta
tambnatoo   oftcttt   and: ftd cttttt            --anot foe   cn)tnloopopan                           oth hot    ol,dofba,no  coa       lIt  arapattn
Itattonacypyolatfat-tn.tattn    ty   potnty    Ihc ta 0iIf0                                 ....   Mon..ntb'                                            .d.,I--.
TIEfbhiifinm I  qelt  ntfatbcnt   n  at   h  ag                                                   ftflnOIf -.                           b,      d   - L-i
a...oncnc Ittn   cotdn f-. Thta  a a-ltontt oly                                                                        Y.tc  fat.1.1...nat 
popotato  ttn- ona fatlitaYa no. the f  tenao  the- Icn-Ircd Phtatr-y.arnroe-                                             -a-ponton   notnal tyIcon I ftdo tdhl
Ott taattc   c tnotato   It          .t lt cthd-The d ycan   P nt,t  nmlrar                            nOn.  n    poytla ann -ato   oralono  th -      fftt-l   abola
po_oltlonlaalltft  ta        arftad~1. thd:p''t..d                   h     .                      DCTaIONdrtrol-aatnaoedmon-Captaaon;codp
totaiina;   fi, 1871  and lft dat.                                                          port. unoaty ot  l noIt  yn.r  ot  tt   otaodao   oot   t
iartan  On.  athoelo Iallan          -  -   2000n ataodt. -tc ifctoottoc   1 land. gan tt ly                             - ano-Yd -t.nd.
Pn -elanto    -a tacnnr  ).pacot ...    -Cidn        -Iyart1I-toktn-anlI-                                nrodc     iborh  I, I          doet -al i-n noh 11 pro Ira  -hto ..- pcat   nd
pYp.ola..ot It).  tIlt  nod  htt ate.d                                                                rt-cteo   co toil - etbin. o -erodac th    To natl -hodnnO   enolInt
faepoectatoo  Cot. tgtttO   lIlt-Pt, and  1010-fl.                                                      oorondlot tno....ld.
ftatc  nta_to; t96 l, 1970,  and I9tl fact..                                                      ceoooro'Ilef.lf   .;--p
fnrtlt cac.  otal   t nya  aaat   rdn   n190   00  ond                                           broodnoa_te-oh-    no   otl   nnooodo pt OpoatonI                   Oncert or
l_oft.            I         9D-0    90-0    .   17-1                                                    lo        Ign rnnocIn:onlo    n   npaf   torgntrntn'   aI
rntlrrianItnt-fnot-toc -.knoo           - In-cooaonda   -nen,th   co-ferrct                               onoatotnndaadronnpannpoho prcednnto
gpros.                                                                                                "It IOne llerIpt nbeonndI        epoplantooI-I  roncar  for broado6etoto
tndnnfrnn   Tro 1    r6 er pa70   roetd  )9tndt.I.lO)    enop'0pt                                          oi     t     tndrndylotiynV r-o,tof n- eru,               'on    hn-t.rnoedrd
hntd ont na-ona  foro            -y-ooa   --too   tdihta;     1960-t, 1970, and  t19h1~?                                                                    1    plll         "        1
dot.                                                                                                Under rotor..di
Taoeatna  o cin  f rlocanIonnoat o  onotrneea)     Capond  retTotl Ihotrom   lbooond) -rooon...                                             yInttfprLlfy,inrolie hdn
tot tot  and  headt-th cnntd             1969aetr 1n1nta  tapcnr,Id    t0t,                                 tftoo   aonnco  tent) Oile  for-tl -1-t,  190-ndlh                       -ono
a ge a   eec  tatmloc to  of..    dl.. pooabr.adototit  nrantoonoO                                      doat ly I -rrn     . -...lon  fe.  In.. nf-ta "Tono A    nn  nnoankrn
atboafoo-        et;d    h-~,17   n   1980.  data..E                                                      ord  lnrt-ely- ono  end C.tea at~             .    .. oea d   _0tota labor  ~fet 190
ta   ob    ffnI  pndt   ,  a    opl   ffnd.1 t     il   fa  .t. tI.t.a.l.a.                     r           'rI'dato    Oa-e I p-recnI     conol de.g   oc ttn0     d~-irotop o  o
'mqu  Idnmcnt  nor alt     l oonntaana ttapbad  _r _c      f  -chd for    y ttnno                       _rtio~ I _yanaroprdaoo,oe,edfmi                                       oo
roa    tPat  o   bobt   nnntoodb    tOna  rco1etn.   mane,                                              190   90,ad101dt.Iho19                      hnde91             er  orf o   at
Thtf _tdTndSoy    9ft1-     PI, i97       l and   1980 tdent .                             loInom.. IItrd n .. PVa. tIe - noto o    ........d.           inne   I  nd000n
dartond  tint arlanla and rolaca to 0ciaa pat doy; d1   -1-ct -,                              , b.;16, 1970 odrd 1mbt
danad':::'I0I1 01000 -Ifb- il-
..'idItacty 1-d  trotlh tar  Icn     _ooad   -t t..ne.) Inach  pard -buotan   nrPcataafTtoO    rn Otbo   In oahedf                                               n)-Otnodbitba
P.,    crit Idana       "" Inrtod  tto  lIf   tale;   01,.117.te -I18f0            -i    1 doa.huahid..1:
anbeh5   91,115      n  1981  ent.arnod  ho  rtntceccbot-Oro                                                                                  ..dere   Indroo    r..     . .......
ner.4  of. tanprcooadlo f- l      btrtha;-  11,  187 by nUDA 10 p- data,~ii..                            Oolt    nrc    rnnOet:Idc_                    Iooalon  b-lee tytrO 0.r-
ototen_cd.     of  uhn   ht  iernnnn    oeot,P                      pta     n                        noroir  lot1 Ion yoortyInonel- nt oTna--td               oraneeprrpn
t-Antornod    a  napn          ..t.e of tbetrH= pe  nIce  paplt_ ona.d  in anI                          I          Iorlnnno  nnouny    UbnOot  tdrod 1Orn ti                     n t-re)
ofhaoren   potII   Mu-ano   unee    ota   o   o.   hni)anf                                               toerajanr fur. -Ot-bcra   nlon1i   ne    n
~trtd ..,Inrna  be~ net_ ntt  a  nt5              loonraathhcaoea   n  ha                             frtotd  nrloto  flo  ntoondPno'YInon  lo   IrIoar
coal- 4onerefpepl   Inotl,- uctha, aod    g roc.. neun  by, tooc .t.ateT                                                                                   ,   ~ p     -4Up-
_lpotth.dt na pnnrnnnae         othlrfceabl- 1960t 197 rooatr.d   fn1 onte O-ooaal
HAtap inidennEoRate   oddiYac,otOn  ntoo    ontat,n                                                                                               foeneon    ota    bt toao
b~tannrcodoaeonr  yooIbon    rr                                 oc- the ui  o  pIn                                        TFonon"Y                     Toot enln trd tnoj tytn   toperno-
proctcnanfabotlon  Inaretlottrna.                                                                                                   nap 198)= I'--'d.,bI,t-,i



-21-                                            ANNEX  I
Page  4 of 7
Population:       8.9 million (aid-1982)
GIP per Capita: USs880 (1982)
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Millions USS at current prices)
Calendar Years
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
EXTERNAL PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY
GUARANTEED BORROWING AND DEBT a/
Gross disbursements
Official grants                              20      24      23      t1    18      I.a.   u.a.   n.a.
Concessional loans                           49      56     123    135   178    133    127         86
DAC                                       17      32      40      53    83     70      68       51
OPEC                                       6       3      13       6    20     24       2       1
IDA                                       16      18      21      19   -20     19      32       32
Other                                     10      3       49     57    54      20      24       2
Non-conceesional loans                       77    122      183    171   344    433    234         95
Official export credits                    1      7       19      12    75     82    102        21
IBRD                                      17      8       15      35    27     24      14       17
Othor multilateral                         4       1       3      21    11     18      14       10
Private                                    6    105      146    104   232    309    104         47
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              372    513      824   1136  1636   1999   2021        1912
Official                                 293    345      510    725  1018   1188   1294       1310
of which: IBRD                         50     57       72    102   130    152    167        182
IDA                         50      68      88    108   127    146    173        204
Private                                   79    168      314    41H   618    811    727        602
Undisbursed debt                            321    496      544    787  1072    612    544        680
Debt Service
Total service payments                       36      39      57    104   133    183    200        264
Interest                                  15     19       28     42    60    103    115        121.
Payuents as % of exports b/                  5.8    5.6      6.8    8.4   9.2    9.3    8.6   11.6 c/
Average interest rate on new loans (M)         4.5    6.3      5.6    6.8   9.2    6.0    6.4       9.2
Of ficial                             2.5    3.9      4.6    4.3   6.4    4.9    5.1       9.2
Private                               9.2    7.6      7.5   10.3  12.5   16.4    9.3       8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)         25.    17.0    17.6   21.5  16.2   24.9   20.9    18.4
Official                                    32.0   32.5    23.0   28.9  21.0   26.6   26.3    19.3
Private                                     10.1    9.0      6.9   11.1  10.6    8.3    8.5       9.0
As  of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1983)
Maturity structure of doubt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                         35.7
Maturities due within tO rears                         63.3'
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                          4.2
1/  In-period or end-of-period figures are shown
b/  Export data on fiscal year basis
c/  Rise in debt service ratio partly reflects decline in the value of the French Franc vis-a-vis the US dollar vhich
depresses Cameroon'a export earnings expressed in US dollars.



-22-                                                       ANNEX I
hu  EKIC wf caMe                                                       Page 5 of 7
ECOIIC INICATORSQI) /a
lm       1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      197       19       1W        13        1
iATIl AccIufr S
(I NCDlnT CFAF DILLINS)
NP at Market Prim                 3s5.      400.5    492,6    S799    457A3        739.9   m9.1  1110.7  1,39.1   1D774.0  2,16.3
Oross  oestic Savins                45.3     59.6     109.3      85.9    104.2    153.9    222.9    231.5    m1.9    37             111.7
Gross National Savings             3.3       52.3      96.0      72.6     93,7    151.7    211.7    214,2    241.4    341.1    513,9
Currnt Accoumt Dalanc  lb          -24.0    -17.3       0.3    -30,8    -43.2    -30.7    -tt.1        -.0    -n.9    -456    S.A.
Eaerts of Goods  id IFWS            309      90,6    132.6    133,9    156.8    209.0    296.0    313.2    410.3    547.3    675,6
Imorts of Good, mi IFS             -9.5   -101.7   -113.4   -156.4   -18939    -231.9   -295.    -35.    -427,2   -30.3    -32.6
(As Z of SP at Market Price)
UP at "rket Prims                  130.0    100.0    100,0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    14s.0    100.0    14.0
Gloss Domestic Savinrs              12.7     14.9      22.3      14.3      15,9     20.1      22.3      20,1     20.9      21.1      26.6
Gross National Savirs               10.9     13.2      19.5      12.5     14.3      19.2      21.7      l6.6     19.2      19.2      23.5
turrmnt Account  alanet            -6.6      -4.5       0.1      -5.3     -6.6      -3.9      -1.1      -5.0     -2.9      -2.6     N.A.
Exports of 6oods and   S            22.7     22.6      26.       24,0     23.8      26.5      30.3      21.2     29.4      30.9      30.
Imports of Goods VW WS            -27*7    -25.4    -24.0    -27.0    -28.8    -29,4    -30.3    -30.s    -30.6    -31.0    -23.9
(Anmal Ral Ratts of Growth)
OP at Marktt Price                  2.5       5*.      11.1      -0.9      4.4       3.3      13,6       5.4      9.t      10.7       *.2
GS   VALUE ADED DY SECTOR
(In Current CFAF Millions)
Agriculture incl.Livestock ttc     111.7    126.7    154,7    193.7    220,8    259,7    305.4    359.2    40464    436.1   51.7
mining                               0.B      1.2       1.8       2.3       2.0      3.2      14.2      3B.5      2.9    1O4.5    23.5
anufacturinr                        38.3     40.4      45.6      56.2     67.5      74.7      37.4    101.     123.0    171.7      241.7
Construction                        13.7     15.9      19,4      21.6      286     42.2      50.6      68U0     34.4    103.3    125.0
Electricitii  Gas6   Water          4.8       4.8       5.3      5.7       6.7      10.1      11.7      14.3     16.3      14.2    i1.
Trasort nd Coammications            26.4     31.9      40N1      49.3      55.1     57.7      66.?      77.6     90S0    103.6    119.3
Trae                                77,3     61.0      33.1      93,9    107.1    126.9    154.1   13.5    202.3    232.3    249,3
Phblic Administration               32.6     33.0      34.4      43.6      45,1     56.3      70.4      84.3   10.1    110.3       15.3
Other Serviees                      37.6     51.9      84.7      85.3     91.5    115.9    140.3    159.0    206.1    263.4    293.6
I.eort Duties                      12,7      13.7      13.5      23.3     32.9      43.2      53.3      64.4     76.S    102.6    126.4
(As Z of TotalI
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc      31.4     31.6      31.4      33.4     33,6      32.9      31.3      31.2     2970      27.5      26,3
Rining                               0.2      0.3       0.4       0,4       0.13     0.4       1.5       3.3      6.7      10.4      13,2
anufacturing                        106     10.1       9,3      9S7       10,3       .5       B.        3.9      3.3       9.7      11.1
Construction                         3.6      4.0       3.9       3.7       4.4      5.3       5.2       5.9      6.0      5S8        5.7
Electricityl Gas and  ater           1.3      1.2       1.1       1.0       1,0      1,3       1.2       1.2       1.2      0.3       0,7
Transport and Communications         7.4      8.0       8.1       8.5       8.4       7.3      6.8       6.7       6.4      5.3       5.5
Trade                               21.7     20.2      17,9      16.2      16.3     16.1      15.8      15.9      14.5     13.1      11.4
Public Administration                9.2      8.2       7,0       7.5       6,9      7.1       7.2       7.3       7.2      6.2       6.2
Other Strvices                     1.6      13.0      17.2      14.7      13.9      14.7     14.4      13.3      14.3     14,1      137
Imort Duties                         3.6      3.4       3.8       4.9      5,0       5.5       5.5       5.6      5.5       5.8       5.B
US $1.00: CFAF                     264.8    241.0    230.1    222.4    225.1    247,8    238.6    216.6    209.2    235.3    296.7
(Period Averate)
SOURCE?Caaeroonian authorities. bank staff estimates.
/a Fiscal Year (July 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in the table.
/b Data on current accont balance cme  from the Ministry
of Finace POP data.
WEST AFRICA CP21
01/09/84



- 23-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAHEROON
ECONOHtC INDICATORS(2)
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1990       1981      1962
GOVERNMENT FINANCE SUHHARY la /c
(In CFAF Hillions)
Current Receipts                      59s308    67,895    83,370    98,763   120s901   1624331   200,761   2194260   314,398   306,928
Current Expenditure                    50,590    58600    70,898    78,872    95,132   118,902   128,749   163,384   200,147   208,984
Current Surplus with adjustments        8,718     9,295    12,472    19,891    25,769    43,736    57,954    76,518   100900    97,944
Capital Expenditure                    12,951    149293    18S929    26,246    32,343    45Y275    53,846    58,481    68,400    82S210
External Assistance (Net)                 900       481      -993    -2,305    12,022      2,997   -5,774    17227      8,984   N.A.
(As Percentage of GOP)
Current Receipts                         14.8      13.8      14.4      15.0      15.3      16.6      17.4       15.7      17,7      14,0
Current Expenditure                      12.6      11.9      12.2      12,0      12,0       12.2      11.2      11.7      11.3       9.6
Current Surplus (or deficit)              2.2       1.9       2.2       3.0       3,3       4.5       5.0        5.5       5.7       4.5
Cepital Expenditure                       3.2       2.9       3.3       4,0       4.1       4.6       4,7        4.2       3.9       3.8
External Assistance (net)                 0.2       0.1      -0.2      -0.4       1,5       0.3      -0.5       1.2        0.5       0.0
HONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /a
(In CFAF Millions-end Period)
Mones and Ouasi-sones                 59,530    78,550    94,720   1179780   155,420   194,808   221,831   288,391   362,700   445,600
Bank Credit to Government               3,470     3,860     5,510     6,551     9,853    14.149    16731    21,149    28,500    40,380
Bank Credit to the Econoas            60,760    78,930   101,510   119,970   169,740   236,502   297,18   3619647   479,400   603,590
Governxent deposits wtth banks          5,060     7,860     8,080    194500    30,400    42,430    59,930    73,320   126,180   153,700
Percentages or Index Numbers
Monev t Qsusi-money as X of GDP /b       14.9      15,9      16.3      17.9      19.7      19.9    1.3         20.7      20.4      20.4
Yaounde Consumer Price Index /a
(1970=100)               124.8    143.3    168.5       185,0    206.8    237.4    259,1    279.1          306.6     332.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Yaounde Consumer Price Index              7.3      14,8      17.6       9.8      11.8      14.8       9,1        7.7       9.9       8.5
Bank Credit to Governsent                 0.0      11.2      42.7      18.9      50.4      43.6       18,2      26.4      34.8      41.7
Bank Credit to the Economy                0.0      29.9      28.6      18.2      41.5      39.3       26.0      21.4      32.6      25.9
Government deposits with banks           -6.6      55.3       2.8     141.3      55.9       39.6      41,2      22.3      72.1      21.8
SOURCE:Caeroonian authorities; Bank staff estimates,
/a Fiscal Year (JuIw I-June 30) is used. Year indicates the end Year for each
fiscal 'ear,
/b GDP is for Fiscal Year,
/c Public finance figures for 1982 are from the budget.
WEST AFRICA CP2B
01/09/84



-24-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
UK3   PIUC W CANUOW
E     TC  DSIATOS3)
17       1m       l7"4      19        1976     1m        17       1979      16        13        l2
ML lNMF r PAYM
(I NLIN CF^F)
Ewarts of oads mw IFS                       M5    90,06  132,3   13946   15,750   209,0o   296,007  313300   41O,764  547294  675,600
st of kids andW WS                     -90464 -I1t0l7  -11S440  -l5633  -189,42  -231.900  -295,37 -355,s69  -427173 -550,060  -32,600
eu,e Ow (deficit - -)                  -17,5    -l1I060    l4,123  -17,437  -32,32  -22,900           70  -40753   -16,4    -29776   4300o
Irnst Pawants (net)                     -1,905   -2p243   -5,335    -572   -1016   -929M   -13,319  -13,5S4  -21,333   -47ll    N.A.
UmAri' Ibsittae                            123       1U        607    2,160    1,"3    2,557    3,254    4675          4665      2931    N.A.
?r Factor PrAmnts (ewt)                 -6919    -7,4"   -10,120   -9,746   -99374    -9,266   -6,510    4,366    -7,010  -13,3o0         N.A.
lrt Trasfers                             2.219    2,357      1,503    2,348    7,103    8,761    4W,95       3,011       692    2,537    6,000
Sane of Currmnt counmt                 -24,032   -17336        277  -30766  -43,206   -30,70   -11,148  -59,017  -39,S35   -45,76    N.A.
N.t Diret Foreil gnvuItat                2h604   -1304    3J47         5,443    s,709    1,503    3,091      9,755    14,165   29,214    N.A.
Total Net Medium nd Laon-
Tore borreirnk                        13,17   21,552        ,1388   13,m9    289,613   32,016   24,77    35,928   49,575   94,576    N.A.
tDlsburseents                      16351   25,071  13749    20,9         36,459   43,093  s51,7s    58,l10    65,704  149S060    N.A.
3kortization                       -2,694    -3,519    -4U561    -7,010   -7,945  -11,073  -26,302  -2,252   -16,129  -54,485    N.A.
Trnd  Crdit (net)                         -706       -37    2,343    30768    2,290   -3,532    2,99l          610   -1,302  -10,971    N.A.
Otwr Short Term Ceital                   1213        -5    -4,751    -4,994    -1,200   -2,297   -2,789  -11,225   -7,204   -3,902    N.A.
Other Coitul n.e.i.                       -4      -1,176    2,772   -3,755   -5,677   -3,365   -1,2           -215      -56        919    N.A.
Gross Official Intnwtional Reserves    12573    11,96    20,52        11,116   l1,706    1379    25.358   19235    40,32    13,000    8,515
.t Forei*n Assets                       10,400   9s970    19I760    8,110    6,690         -160    14,990   -9.300   22n770   10,040  -27,500
tI 11,00z CFAF  (Period Average)        264u.     241.0    230.1    222.4    225.1    247.8    239.6    216,6    209.2    235.3    296,7
S3  1.0o0 CFAF  (Period Arnvu )         276.5    2n71       m.5    271.4    263,4    296,3    296.1    277.6    272.2    294.5    337.2
SlMUICE:wi an Auhoritits, la* staff estiutes.
Fiscal war (iul-Juwa) is used with end war shl in table.
WIT AFRICA 
01/09/84



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or                                                      US$ million
Credit                                              Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower   PuEpose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen Credits and sixteen Loans have been           167.94  179.92      -
fully disbursed
1245T-CM    1976  Cameroon   Education III             17.0               4.54
673-CM     1977  Cameroon   Technical Assistance               4.5       1.09
723-CM     1977  Cameroon   Rural Development Fund             7.0       2.04
1494-CM     1977  Cameroon   Feeder Roads              4.6                3.79
1508-CM     1977  Cameroon   CAMDEV II                 15.0               0.90
776-CM     1978  Cameroon   Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                     8.5       2.51
784-CM     1978  Cameroon   Western Highlands
Rural Development              13.0       2.75
1723-CM     1979  Cameroon   Highway IV                38.0              23.59
1734-CM     1979  Regifercam Railway IV                27.0              17.68
1753-CM     1979  Cameroon   Second Water Supply       21.0              20.61
1791-CM     1980  Cameroon   Hevecam II                16.5              12.58
1010-CM     1980  Cameroon   Livestock II                      16.0      11.27
1919-CM     1981  Cameroon   Northern Province
Rural Development     25.0               25.00
1075-CM     1981  Cameroon   Northern Province
Rural Development              12.50 1/   2.48 2/
1920-CM     1981  Cameroon   Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises II  15.0               15.00
1168-CM     1981  Cameroon   Technical Cooperation II          10.00 1/   8.59 2/
2073-CM     1982  Cameroon   Post and Telecommunica-
tion Assistance        7.50               5.59
2092-CM3/   1982  Cameroon   Forestry                  17.00             17.00
2160-CM     1982  Cameroon   Oil Palm/Rubber
Consolidation         50.8               48.54
2180-C!     1982  Cameroon   Highway V                 70.0              59.83
2244-CM4/   1983  Cameroon   Urban Development         20.0              20.00
2259-CM4/   1983  Cameroon   Third Douala Port         22.5     --       22.50
TOTAL                                  534.84  251.42    327.88
of which has been repaid              30-54    6.83
TOTAL now outstanding                  504.30  244-59
Amount sold                   7.72
of which has been repaid   7.72        -       -
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA 2/                           504_30  244-59
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                      297.15   30.73    327.88
1/ Computed at the rate of the approval dates
2/  Computed at the 9/30/83 rate of 1.05684
3/ Signed 1/4/83, not effective
4/ Signed 9/15/83, not effective



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of August 31, 1983).
Investment   Fiscal
Number      Year   Obligor    Type of Business    Amount in US$ millions
Loan   Equity    Total
311-CM      1975      BATA          Shoe Factory           -      0.38      0.38
355-CM      1977      SAFACAM I    Rubber Plantation       -      0.81      0.81
430-CM      1979      SAFACAM II   Rubber Plantation       -      0.41      0.41
452-CM      1979      ALUCAM        Non-ferrous metal    7.00    0.93       7.93
551-CM      1981      SCM           Food and Food
Processing          1.12    0.20      1.32
578-CM      1981      SOCAVER       Glass Bottle
Factory             1.70    0.18      1.88
579-CM      1981      SAFACAM III  Rubber Plantation       -      0.25      0.25
633-CM      1982      SOSUCAM       Food and Food
Processing          1.38              1.38
Total gross commitments                                  11.20    3.16    14.36
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                    3.05    0.43      3.48
Total commitments now held by IFC                         8.15    2.73    10.88
Total undisbursed                                         0.28    0.00      0.28



- 27 -
ANNEX III
page 1 of 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.  Time taken to prepare the project:        12 months
B.  Project prepared by:                      UCCAO with FAO/CP.
C.  Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                     April 1981
D.  Departure of appraisal mission:           May 1982
E.  Negotiations completed:                   December 1983
F.  Planned date of effectiveness             October 1984
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
Assistance in:
(i) drafting the terms of reference for and helping select the resident
specialists and consultants;
(ii) reviewing contracts for project services to be provided by
organizations outside the project; and
(iii) reviewing recommendations of the action plans to be submitted for
reorganization of the cooperatives, farmer credit and coffee marke-
ting.
Section III: Special Conditions
I. The Government would provide assurances on the following principal condi-
tions:
(i) participation of UCCAO in the inputs procurement process; payment by
Government of funds equivalent to the subsidized fraction of inputs
costs by August 31 of each year; periodic consultations on problems
relating to Government's input supply and agricultural pricing poli-
cies (para 27);
(ii) for all credit extended by UCCAO, final on-lending rate of 11.25 % in
PYl, to be fully reviewed each year and revised if appropriate during
project implementation (para. 46);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
page 2 of 2
(iii)   submission to the Bank, by September 30, 1984, of an acceptable
action plan to improve coffee marketing operations and implementation
of agreed upon recommendations within 12 months of receipt of Bank's
approval (para. 29);
(iv) periodic revision of the price fixing formula ("bareme") for coffee
to allow for coverage of cooperatives costs, in particular primary
marketing and processing costs (para. 28); and
(v)  recovery of maintenance costs for water points and bottomlands
(para. 42).
II. Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i)   employment of three key technical specialists (para. 40);
(ii)  signing between Government and UCCAO, of a subsidiary loan agreement
(para. 45);
(iii) transfer to UCCAO of responsibility for the technical and organizational
aspects of extension in the Western Province (para. 41);
(iv)  deposit by Government of an initial contribution to project costs,
sufficient to bring the project account to CFAF 400 million (para. 45);
and
(v)   fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD
loan (para. 45).
III.  Special disbursements conditions would be:
(i)   against feeder roads: recruitement of a roads engineer and a mechanic,
and on an annual basis, submission by July 1 of each year of: (A) satis-
factory annual work program based on completed Category A roads, and (B)
adequate operation of the provincial feeder roads unit (para. 36): and
(ii)  against individual departmental cooperatives: adoption of appropriate
measures to improve accounting and financial procedures; submission of a
detailed investment plan (para. 32).



_________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________   ______                   BR  )  16677
C  CO                         C~0uR~0uRRRnu0;= 
72              tRIOCO                                                                                      -~~~Z-  1 -   il
A''
CAMFROON
)      0Foo~~~~q                 ~                ~                   SE~COND WESTERN PROVINCE
~;RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Geographical, Ecological
and Climatic Data
-~~~ -~~            7LJ               - -
Cemtrol c-weo
DiStRict -oot-o
I                                 (                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Weorero lign end, Rura  D-y Proiec  boCd-ry
OR)                                                                                               101                 I                         CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13  30  IC
'3-,~~~~~~~



I



BRE' 16678R
rIcER/  /  F    ,,,  :C:                                                                    I                                                 DECEMEER 1952 R
N I_  E R                                                                                        , A
p.g
_-GERIA   lC              N                                                                           5-.. N                 '=>   g   <  W~CA E O
<  -      -                 / S  ~~~~~RURAL DEV ELOPENT PROJ EC
)  9 5 s   w\  ; y KoDEv        9              )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Physical Development
'5lll/°  >                                                                                                                Ei p    n 'i  /  o a /  .i   -  . . p-- ng cc,y
(.1             AttIrC-
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-- nd f-[                                                    .t.g., Aiom@b0e    
5   (   , f V1n  S Z D   %- )   <    {   ' X   / ' '  >    '     /                                                              5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-p d  ...,..d, .tg.y 
-  i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-~~j 
RUA DEVELPMETtPRJEC
Physica Development
>~~~~~   ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~                   ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Co,rtv Soer orc7 coffee; fa.>d .  C2  ctrie
o  N ''                     Coeperat e service center
0       IC~~~~Scraead edrres,ctgr 



I



A






