OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 2406 CH
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Western Province Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UNION CENTRALE DES COOPERATIVES AGRICOLES DE L'OUEST
Dated                18             ,1984


﻿LOAN NIMBER 2406 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REC0N5TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and UNION CENTRALE DES COOPERATIVES
AGRICOLES DE L'OUEST (hereinafter called UCCAO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amouat in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million five hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on con-
dition that UCCAO agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,700,000) to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Fund; and
(C) the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, and the Bank is prepared to
accept such appointment;
WHEREAS part of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan
will be made available to UCCAO as a grant and, by a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and UCCAO,
another part of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan will
be made available to UCCAO on the terms and conditions therein
set forth;
WHEREAS UCCAO, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "subsi-
diary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effec-
tively controlled by UCCAO or by any one or more subsidiaries of
UCCAO or by UCCAO and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) UCCAO shall carry out Parts A through H
(a) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
or cause such Parts of the Project to be carried out with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic, agricultural and engineering
practices.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section and without any limitation or
restriction upon such obligations, UCCAO shall:
(i) provide, out of its own financial resources, (A)
an aggregate amount of at least one thousand seven
hundred million CFA francs (CFAF 1,700,000,000)
for the carrying out of Parts A, C, D, E, F, G and
H (a) of the Project, and (B) an aggregate amount
of at least two hundred million CFA francs (CFAF
200,000,000)  for   the  Revolving   Credit  Fund
referred to in Section 2.08 of this Agreement for
purposes of Part B of the Project;
(ii) enter into Project execution arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank:
(1) with IRA for the carrying out of Part C (a)
of the Project;
(2) with G9nie Rural for the carrying out of
Part E of the Project; and
(3) with MINEQ for the carrying out of Part F of
the Project; and


﻿(iii) for the carrying out of Part G (b) of the Project:
(1) include in its organization, with separate
accounts, the bottomland development unit,
previously under the jurisdiction of G6nie
Rural; and
(2) prepare and present to the Bank and the Fund
annual work programs and budgets on September
30, 1984 and, thereafter, on September 30 of
each year.
(c)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Project
execution arrangements to be entered into by UCCAO pursuant to
paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section shall be made not later than
September 30, 1984, and shall provide, inter alia, for:
(i) establishment of special operational units with
separate accounts and budgets by the agencies and
services of the Borrower concerned in order to
carry out their respective obligations under the
Project;
(ii) preparation and presentation to UCCAO, the Bank
and the Fund of annual work programs and budgets
in respect of the activities to be carried out by
such units under the Project, such programs and
budgets to be approved by UCCAO and, in the case
of feeder roads, by the Bank and Fund and to be
presented on September 30, 1984 and, thereafter,
on September 30 of each year;
(iii) UCCAO to make available to the agencies and ser-
vices of the Borrower concerned the funds required
to enable the units referred to in subparagraph
(i) of this paragraph to carry out their res-
pective obligations under the Project;
(iv) procurement by UCCAO of all goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Fund Loan made available to it by the
Borrower, and for UCCAO to make available such
goods and services to the units referred to in
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph as and to the
extent required to enable such units to carry out
their respective obligations under the Project;


﻿-4-
(v) the right of UCCAO to audit, or arrange for the
audit of, the accounts of the units referred to in
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph and to control
the use by such units of the resources made avail-
able to the agencies and services of the Borrower
concerned for the purposes of carrying out the
Project; and
(vi) presentation by the agencies and services of the
Borrower concerned to UCCAO, the Bank and the Fund
of combined progress reports on their respective
activities under the Project, such presentation to
be made within one month of each calendar quarter.
(d) For the exclusive purpose of meeting expenditures under
Parts A through H (a) of the Project, UCCAO shall maintain, until
completion of the Project, the Project Account in a banking
institution and under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. In order to assist UCCAO in carrying out
Parts A through H (a) of the Project, UCCAO shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of   the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981. These consultants shall include those referred to
in  Section   7.01  (c)  of  the Loan   Agreement   (a  financial
controller, a director for production and a technical director)
and those referred to in paragraph 3 (ii) of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement (a roads engineer and a mechanic); in addition,
UCCAO shall, not later than September 30, 1984 or such other date
as the Bank may agree, employ a seed farm manager, a garage
manager and a credit specialist.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts A
through H (a) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and Fund Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)   It is specified that the list of crop-protection
chemicals to be so procured shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) UCCAO undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by UCCAO to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) UCCAO shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of Parts
A through H (a) of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) UCCAO shall furnish to the Bank and the
Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A through H (a) of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) UCCAO: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through
H (a) of the Project (including their cost and, where appropri-
ate, the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund
Loan, and to disclose their use in Parts A through H (a) of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's and the Fund's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
Parts A through H (a) of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A through H (a) of the
Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by UCCAO of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
or the Fund Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿-6-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between UCCAO and
the Bank, UCCAO shall prepare and furnish to the Bank and the
Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the performance
by UCCAO and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan and the Fund Loan.
(e) UCCAO shall afford all reasonable opportunity for the
Bank's and the Fund's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of
UCCAO and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) UCCAO shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
A through H (a) of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
(b) UCCAO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A through H (a) of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan or the Fund Loan, or the performance by
UCCAO of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. UCCAO shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to obtain, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in Parts A through H (a) of
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, at its request,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Parts A
through H (a) of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) For the purpose of the carrying out of
Part B of the Project, UCCAO shall maintain and operate its
existing Revolving Credit Fund and deposit therein the funds
referred to in Section 2.01 (b)(i)(B) hereof, and those made
available to UCCAO pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
(b) UCCAO shall ensure that any credit under Part B or D of
the Project made available during the first year of Project
implementation to members of UCCAO member cooperatives and to
UCCAO member cooperatives in the Project Area shall bear interest
at a rate of 11.25% per annum.
(c) Thereafter, UCCAO shall, annually, review the adequacy
of such interest rate for any new credit under Part B or D of the
Project and, after consultation with the Bank, take such measures
as shall be necessary as a result of said review to revise such
interest rate, if appropriate.
(d) UCCAO shall deposit the amounts received on account of
the repayment of the credit provided under Part B of the Project
in the Revolving Credit Fund in order to finance further credit
operations under said Part of the Project.
(e) UCCAO shall ensure that each of UCCAO member coopera-
tives shall jointly and severally guarantee the full repayment of
any credit under Part B of the Project made available to its
members.
Section 2.09. UCCAO shall make available the bottomlands
referred to under Part G (b) of the Project to farmers pursuant
to contracts conforming substantially to a model form of contract
satisfactory to the Bank and providing, inter alia, for recovery
of the maintenance costs of the works carried out under said Part
of the Project through labor contributions and payment of an
annual maintenance fee.
Section 2.10. UCCAO shall take or cause to be taken all
action necessary to ensure adequate maintenance of the bottom-
lands in the Project Area, including those developed under Part G
(b) of the Project, and shall provide or cause to be provided the
funds required for this purpose.
Section 2.11. UCCAO shall not undertake the carrying out of
Parts E and G (b) of the Project unless village management com-
mittees responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
facilities and works included in such Parts of the Project have
been established, the personnel required for such activities has
been nominated and trained, and such committees have undertaken
to finance the spare parts and repairs required for such facili-
ties and works.


﻿- 8 -
Section 2.12. UCCAO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, UCCAO shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of UCCAO
Section 3.01. (a) (i) UCCAO shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of
its business and maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate agricultural, commercial, economic, financial
and administrative practices, and under experienced and qualified
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(ii) without any limitation upon the generality of the foregoing,
UCCAO shall employ at all times a chief of its accounting service
and a chief of its extension service.
(b)  Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, UCCAO shall operate and maintain its equipment
and facilities and make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof in accordance with appropriate agricultural and manage-
ment practices.
(c)  UCCAO shall at all times cause the personnel involved
at a similar level in the execution of the Project to be provided
on a uniform basis with all financial and other incentives
granted under the Project.
Section 3.02. UCCA0 shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. UCCAO shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its legal existence and right to carry on
its operations, including the execution of Parts A through H (a)
of the Project, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other
rights, as may be necessary or useful for the execution and
operation of such Parts of the Project and the conduct of its
business.


﻿-9-
Section 3.04. (a) Before UCCAO shall take any action to
establish or acquire any subsidiary, UCCAO shall first satisfy
the Bank that such action would not affect materially and
adversely the operations (including the carrying out of Parts A
through H (a) of the Project) and financial position of UCCAO.
(b) If UCCAO establishes or acquires any subsidiary, UCCAO
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obliga-
tions of UCCAO under this Agreement to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.05. UCCA0 shall, not later than September 30,
.1984, or such other date as the Bank may agree, prepare for the
use of its personnel and of UCCAO member cooperatives, and
submit to the Bank in a draft form, for its review and comments,
operational manuals detailing the respective responsibilities of
said personnel. Promptly upon receipt of the Bank's comments and
having given them due consideration, UCCAO shall issue such
manuals in final form and cause said personnel to abide by the
guidelines/rules included therein.
Section 3.06. (a) UCCAO shall, not later than September 30,
1984, or such other date as the Bank may agree, prepare and
submit to the Bank for its approval an action plan to improve its
coffee processing and marketing activities.
(b) Within the twelve-month period of receipt of the Bank's
approval, UCCAO shall implement such action plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UCCAO shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account or from the Fund Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b)   UCCAO shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of


﻿- 10 -
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account or from the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. UCCAO shall:
(a)   have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  furnish to the Bank and the Fund as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors: (A) on the
separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan made available to it
and withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and
(c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
saiW accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Loan Agreement or the
Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of UCCAO thereunder shall terminate on the earliest date
on which both the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement
shall have terminated in accordance with their respective terms
and the Bank shall promptly notify UCCAO thereof.


﻿- 11 -
(b) If either the Loan Agreement, or the Fund Loan Agree-
ment, terminates in accordance with its terms and the other
Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this Project
Agreement of UCCAO and of the lender under that other Agreement
shall remain in force.
(c) If the Bank shall notify UCCAO that its appointment as
Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall, with respect to
the responsibilities of the Bank as such Cooperating Institution,
be deemed to be deleted.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
For UCCAO:
Union Centrale des Coopgratives Agricoles
de l'Ouest
B.P. 1002 Bafoussam
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable Address:                     Telex:
UCCAO                              7005 KN
Bafoussam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of UCCAO, or by UCCAO on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
its Directeur Gdndral or such other person or persons as UCCAO
shall designate in writing, and UCCAO shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.               6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By               4/            /)&iVi
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
UNION CENTRALE DES COOPERATIVES AGRICOLES
DE L'OUEST
By                           6    d
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 Edition)
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, UCCAO shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. UCCAO shall provide the neces-
sary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding; (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In  the   procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with   the


﻿- 14 -
procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manu-
factured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Cameroon
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of UCCAO and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in Cameroon
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for


﻿- 15 -
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a)   Contracts for civil works and small equipment, whose
estimated individual cost shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent,
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank,
provided that the aggregate amount of contracts so awarded shall
not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
(b)  Contracts for goods, whose estimated individual cost
shall not exceed $20,000 equivalent, may be awarded through
solicitations of price quotations from at least three local
suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of contracts so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,100,000.
(c)  Civil works for Parts E, F and G (b) of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 may be either (i)
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local procedures
acceptable to the Bank or, whenever appropriate, (ii) carried out
under force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, UCCAO shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, UCCAO
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the


﻿- 16 -
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform UCCAO and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, UCCAO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account or
the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform UCCAO
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, UCCAO shall inform the BaDk
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with      the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform UCCAO and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of   (A    198   .
FOR SECRETARY


