OFFICIAL             LO,N NUMBER 2406 CM
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Second Western Province Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated               18              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2406 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    j     1          , 1984, between REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,700,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered between the Borrower and the
Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating Institu-
tion to administer the Fund Loan and the Bank is prepared to
accept such appointment;
(D)  Parts A through H (a) of the Project will be carried
out by Union Centrale des Coop6ratives Agricoles de l'Ouest
(hereinafter called UCCAO) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
UCCAO part of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and UCCAO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with


﻿-2-
the same force and effezt as if they were ful!,- set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and UCCAO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
(c)    "UCCAO" means the Union Centrale des Cooperatives
Agricoles de l'Ouest established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 73/15, dated December 7, 1973, and Decree No.
74/874, dated October 29, 1974, as such Law and Decree may be
amended from time to time, and UCCAO Statuts.
(d)  "TCCAO Statuts" means the Statuts of UCCAO dated March
22, 1978 and amended on November 25, 1982, as such Statuts may be
further amended from time to time.
(e) "MINAGRI' means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture.
(f) "Ggnie Rural" means MINAGRI's Direction du G4nie Rural,
or any successor thereto.
(g)   "IRA" means Institut pour la Recherche Agricole, an
institute  within  the   Borrower's  D4legation  Ggnerale  a   la
Recherche Scientifique et Technique.
(h)  "DEP" means MINAGRI's Direction des Etudes et 2rojets,
or any successor thereto.
(i) "FONADER" means Fonds National de Developpement Rural
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.


﻿-3-
(j)   "MINEQ" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
road construction and maintenance.
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UCCAO pursuant to Section
4.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreeinent.
(1)   "Project Area" means the whole area of the Western
Province.
(m) "CFA franc" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la
Communaute Financiere Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.
(n) "Fee" means the fee referred to in Section 2.03 hereof.
(o) "ha" means hectare.
(p)   "Project Account" means the account opened by UCCAO
under Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement (Western Highlands
Rural Development Project), dated April 17, 1978, between the
Association and UCCAO (Credit No. 784 CM).
(q)   "Category A feeder roads" means the feeder roads in-
cluded in the project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment (Feeder Roads Project), dated December 7, 1977, between the
Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 1494 CM).
(r)   "Category B feeder roads" means the feeder roads
included in this Project.
(s)  "Revolving Credit Fund" means the fund referred to in
Section 2.01 (b)(i)(B) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-one million five hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000).


﻿-4-
(b)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article III of this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to fifty-three thousand six hundred sixteen dollars
($53,616).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)  For the Interest Period commencing on /u6w
the interest rate shall be /10.08 % per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-5-
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified    Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the Loan and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such alloca-
tion may be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions
of such Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Bank or the Fund
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the application as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the applica-
tion.
(c)   Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Bank or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds to
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by
the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances, between
the Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 50:50, or such
other ratio as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Fund;
provided, however, that, if such application shall be made in
respect of expenditures that shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan only, such application
shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Loan
Account or the Fund Loan Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Bank shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall:
(a) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account to or on the order of the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement;
and/or
(b)   promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan Account in the


﻿-7-
aggregate amount specified in such notice, that it has approved
payment of the portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and that the
portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account in the amount
set forth in such notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Loan or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Fund Loan Account or the Loan Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof shall
continue to apply, mutatis mutandis, until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Bank may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, enter into
special commitments to pay amounts out of the proceeds of the
Fund Loan to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost of
goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of this
Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Bank that any
such special commitment shall, once it has been notified to the
Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay,
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the
Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of the
Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.09. UCCAO is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Article III of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in regard to
the Categories of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
hereto, save for the Categories (1)(b) and (c) and 3(e) thereof.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part H (b)
and (c) of the Project through DEP with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, financial and planning practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause UCtAO to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations of UCCAO therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
UCCAO to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance. In particular, the Borrower shall:
Ci) cause its services and agencies referred to in
paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement to enter into Project execution arra>ge-
ments with UCCAO as provided in said Section, to
carry out their respective obligations regarding
the execution of the Project pursuant to such
arrangements with due diligence and efficiency,
and to cooperate effectively with UCCAO in
carrying out such obligations; and
(ii) ensure that MINAGRI shall second qualified and
experienced bottomland development technicians and
agricultural extension workers (including about 24
intendants and about 12 female extension workers)
to UCCAO as required for the execution of the
PToject.
(c)  The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, make
available to UCCAO, as a grant, the proceeds of the Loan and the
Fund Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a), (2),
(3)(a) and (d), (4)(a), (5)(a) and (c), and (6) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-9-
(d)  The Borrower shall relend to UCCAO the proceeds of the
Loan and the Fund Loan allocated from time to time to Categories
(3)(b) and (c), (4)(b) and (5)(b) of the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and UCCAO under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including crediting by UCCAO of any amounts repaid to UCCAO from
the credits made under Part D of the Project to a special account
to be designated by the Borrower for financing cooperatives
equipment at the national level.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.02. Without any limitation upon its obligations
under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower:
(a)  undertakes, for purposes of Parts A, C, E, F, G and
H (a) of the Project, to fund the Project Account in addition to
the initial amount referred to in Section 7.01 (f) of this Agree-
ment, as follows:
(i) deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project
Account the amounts withdrawn from the Loan Ac-
count and the Fund Loan Account in respect of ex-
penditures paid out of the Project Account;
(ii) deposit, until completion of the Project, in the
Project Account, at the beginning of each quarter
of its fiscal year, the Borrower's other contribu-
tions towards expenditures under Parts A, C, E, F,
G and H (a) of the Project during the year con-
cerned; and
(iii) take all action necessary to ensure that, at the
beginning of each quarter of its fiscal year and
until completion of the Project, the aggregate
amount available in the Project Account shall not
be less than four hundred million CFA francs
(CFAF 400,000,000);


﻿- 10 -
(b) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to UCCAO, to the
extent required for the carrying out of Parts B and D of the Pro-
ject, the resources necessary (1) for the supply of UCCAO member
cooperatives and the members of such cooperatives with agricul-
tural inputs and equipment (Part B), and (2) for the expansion or
construction of coffee factories and storage facilities (Part D);
and
(c)  for purposes of Part B (b) of the Project, deposit in
FONADER, not later than August 31 of each year, the amount of the
Borrower's subsidy to be applied towards the purchase cost of
fertilizers and crop protection chemicals and ensure that FONADER
pays to the suppliers of said fertilizers and crop protection
chemicals the portion of their invoices corresponding to the
amount of said subsidy.
Section 4.03. Without any limitation upon its obligations
under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a)
ensure that UCCAO shall participate in the procurement of fer-
tilizers and crop protection chemicals required for the Project;
and (b) take all measures necessary to ensure that said fertil-
izers and crop protection chemicals are delivered to farmers in
due time and in adequate qualities and quantities.
Section 4.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part H (b) and (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants- inter alios, not later than September 30, 1984, or
such other date as the Bank may agree, a chief of the central
evaluation unit at DEP- whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency free-
ly usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 11 -
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part H (b) and (c) of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part H (b) and (c)
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use
in Part H (b) and (c) of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part H (b) and (c) of the Project and to exa-
mine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Fund Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part H (b) and (c)
of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d)  The Borrower shall furnish to UCCAO all such informa-
tion in respect of Part H (b) and (c) of the Project as UCCAO
requires to fulfill its obligations under Section 2.05 (d) of the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part H (b)
and (c) of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part of the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿- 12 -
(b)    Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested for Part H (b) and (c) of the Project from the Loan
Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested for Part H (b) and (c) of the Project
from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Bank's and the
Fund's representatives to examine such records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Fund, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan
withdrawn for Part H (b) and (c) of the Project from the Loan
Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank and the Fund such other
information concerning said separate accounts, records and expen-
ditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01 (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿- 13 -
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal ol, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary to ensure adequate maintenance of the water
points in the Project Area, including those constructed under
Part E of the Project, and shall provide or cause to be provided
the funds required for this purpose.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall cause to be taken all
action necessary to recover the maintenance costs of the works
carried out under Part E of the Project from the beneficiaries
thereof, through labor contributions and payment of an annual
maintenance fee.


﻿-14-
Section 5.04. The Borrower and the Bank shall, at regular
intervals, exchange views with respect to problems relating to
inputs supply and agricultural pricing policies in Cameroon.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the periodic
revisions of the price fixing forlula ("barame") applicable to
coffee in Cameroon shall be sufficient to cover the costs borne
by the cooperatives, in particular the primary marketing and
processing costs.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall, not later than November
30, 1984, or such other date as the Bank may agree, take all
appropriate steps to ensure that the minimum coffee-area to be
replanted by a farmer in order to benefit from the Borrower's
coffee-planting allowance be reduced from 1 ha to 0.25 ha.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)  UCCAO   shall  have  failed   to  perform  any  of   its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that UCCAO will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower's Law or Decree referred to in Section
1.02 (c) hereof or the UCCAO Statuts or any provision thereof
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UCCAO to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of UCCAO or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan (including


﻿- 15 -
the Fund Loan) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the   Borrower   to   perform   any   of   its
obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and    conditions    consistent    with    the
obligations   of  the   Borrower  under   this
Agreement.
(f) Any representation made by UCCAO in or pursuant to the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Bank in making
the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (e)(i)(B) of Section
6.01 hereof shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(e)(ii) of that Section.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan Agreement (other than
the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled;
(b) the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating Institu-
tion to administer the Fund Loan on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank;
(c)  the financial controller, the director for production
and the technical director referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement have been employed;
(d) the Borrower has transferred the technical and organi-
zational responsibility of the extension service in the Project
Area to TJCCAO;
(e) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and UCCAO; and
(f) the Borrower has deposited in the Project Account such
amounts as shall be required to bring the amounts credited
thereto to four hundred million CFA francs (CFAF 400,000,000).
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by UCCAO, and is legally binding upon UCCAO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and UCCAO, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and UCCAO in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 17 -
Section 7.03. The date     61&         299       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.04. If (a) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Loan Agreement shall have failed to
come into force and effect by the date specified in Section 7.03
of this Agreement or a later date established by the Bank for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions, or (b) the
entire principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and all charges which shall, have accrued on the Loan
shall have been paid before the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the Loan Agreement
shall be deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only
to the extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund
Loan Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual
interest to the parties thereunder, subject to such modifications
of the Loan Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (a) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, or (b) the Bank shall notify the Borrower that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan
Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall,
to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan, forthwith
terminate; provided, however, that in the case described in the
foregoing clause (b) such termination shall apply only to the
responsibilities of the Bank as such Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 3.09 hereof, the
Minister of the Borrower responsible for plan and management is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 18 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Plan and Management
Yaound6
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINPI                              8268-KN
Yaound&
With copy to:
Ministry of Financial Affairs
Yaoundf
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFI                              8260-KN
YaoundS
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By              /&/        1aXV6ol
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                 /40/
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so financed
in each Category:
Amount of the      Amount of the
Loan Allocated       Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed          Allocated       Expendi-
in Dollar        (Expressed in    tures to be
Category        Equivalent)      SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Consultants'
services
for:
(a) Parts A      2,500,000        2,270,000  )
and H(a)                                )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
)      95%
(b) Part H(b)                       380,000  )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(c) Part H(c)      250,000                   )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(2) Fellowships         900,000                         95%
for Part A
of the Pro-
ject
(3) Vehicles,
equipment
and main-
tenance for:


﻿- 21 -
AMount of the      Amount of the
Loan Allocated       Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed          Allocated       Expendi-
in Dollar        (Expressed in    tures to be
Category        Equivalent)      SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(a) Parts A,      3,400,000       2,830,000  )
C, E, G                                 )
and H(a)                                )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(b) Part B(a)       700,000         660,000  )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(c) Part D        6,000,000                  )
of the                                  )       85%
Project                                 )
(d) Part F        1,300,000       1,230,000  )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(e) Part H(b)       100,000                  )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(4) Fertilizers,
seeds and
chemicals
for:
(a) Parts A(b)    1,000,000         940,000  )
and C(b)                                )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
)       70%
(b) Part B(b)     3,000,000       2,360,000  )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(5) Civil works
for:


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the      Amount of the
Loan Allocated       Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed          Allocated       Expendi-
in Dollar        (Expressed in    tures to be
Category        Equivalent)      SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(a) Parts A,       300,000          280,000  )
C(b), E                                 )
and G                                   )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
)      70%
(b) Part D       1,100,000                   )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(c) Part F         200,000          190,000  )
of the                                  )
Project                                 )
(6) Salaries and                       1,890,000         10%
benefits for
extension per-
sonnel
(7) Fee                  53,616                      Amount due
pursuant to
Section
2.03 (a) of
this Agree-
ment
(8) Unallocated         696,384          670,000
TOTAL      21,500,000       13,7001,000
2.    The disbursement percentages 'have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Fund that no proceeds
of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out


﻿- 23 -
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of
the Bank and the Fund.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above:
(i) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the
date of the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later;
and
(ii) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(1) Categories   (3)(d) and   (5)(c), unless    a  roads
engineer and a mechanic have been employed by
UCCAO;
(2) Categories (3)(d) and (5)(c) in any given fiscal
year, unless the Bank shall have received by
the beginning (July 1) of such fiscal year: (A) an
annual "Category B" feeder roads construction and
maintenance program of UCCAO for such fiscal year
satisfactory to the Bank; (B) evidence satisfac-
tory to the Bank showing that the "Category A"
feeder roads related to such "Category B" feeder
roads have been constructed; and (C) evidence
satisfactory to the Bank showing that the Feeder
Roads Unit created under the Feeder Roads Project
(Loan No. 1494 CM) shall continue to operate
adequately; and
(3) Categories (3)(c) and (5)(b) in respect of UCCAO
or of any of the member cooperatives listed in
Part D of the Project, unless the Bank shall have
received in respect of UCCAO or any such coopera-
tive, as the case may be: (A) evidence satisfac-
tory to the Bank showing that UCCAO or any such
cooperative has taken appropriate measures satis-
factory to the Bank to improve its administrative,
accounting and financial procedures; and (B) a
detailed investment plan of UCCAO or any such
cooperative in respect of the investments to be
made by it for purposes of Part D of the Project.


﻿- 24 -
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the pro-
visions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan or Fund Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, provided, however, that no
such reallocation of proceeds of the Fund Loan shall be made to
Categories (3)(c) and (5)(b): and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan and/or the
Fund Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan and/or the
Fund Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed, over a five-year period, to promote
agricultural production, to improve coffee processing and social
infrastructure facilities, to provide better services to farmers
and to develop and strengthen cooperative institutions in the
Project Area; it consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   UCCAO
(a) Physical expansion of UCCAO field services through the
construction of storage facilities, office buildings and work-
shops and the purchase of vehicles and farm and office equipment.
(b) Reorganization of accounting, financial control, admin-
istration and personnel management procedures of UCCAO (and its
six constituent cooperative societies), expansion in number and
upgrading of the skills and training of agricultural extension
and cooperative development staff (including intendants and
female extension agents), through the expansion of training
facilities and the provision of fellowships, vehicles, and other
facilities.
Part B:   Production Inputs
Provision of credit to the members of UCCAO member
cooperatives to finance:
(a) The establishment of grain drying and storage facili-
ties at farm level and the provision of equipment for crop treat-
ment and coffee processing.
(b) The provision of incremental crop production inputs
(fertilizers, crop-protection chemicals, seeds).
Part C:   Applied Research and Seed Farm Activities
(a) Carrying out of a program of applied research with
IRA's assistance, and provision of equipment and vehicles there-
for.
(b) Expansion of seed farm activities from about 100 ha to
about 250 ha, and provision of machinery and equipment therefor.


﻿- 26 -
Part D:   Coffee Factories
(a)   Provision of credit to the UCCAO member cooperatives
(CAPLAME, CAPLABAM, CAPLAMI, CAPLANOUN, CAPLANDE and CAPLAHN) to
finance the construction and expansion of storage facilities and
the purchase of coffee processing equipment and vehicles.
(b)  Provision of credit to UCCAO to finance the expansion
of the central coffee processing factory at Bafoussam and the
provision of the necessary equipment and vehicles therefor.
Part E:   Village Water Supplies
Construction of about 450 water points, including facilities
for coffee treatment.
Part F:   Feeder Roads
Construction and periodic maintenance of about 500 km of
feeder roads known as "Category B", including the provision of
equipment, spare parts, fuel, lubricants and materials.
Part G:   Soil Conservation, Reafforestation and Bottomland
Development
(a)   Program of soil conservation and reafforestation on
about 850 ha, and the provision of vehicles and the equipment
necessary therefor.
(b)  (i) Development of about 315 ha of bottomlands through
the construction of drainage and flood control
works, the initial operation and maintenance of
such works and the provision of vehicles and the
equipment necessary therefor; and
(ii) initial cultivation activities in the above about
315 ha and in about 300 ha already drained and the
provision of vehicles and the equipment necessary
therefor.
Part H:   Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) Expansion of the monitoring unit within UCCAO.


﻿- 27 -
(b) Expansion of the central evaluating unit located in
Yaounde (within DEP), and establishment, equipping and initial
operation of a branch of the central evaluation unit at the
Western Provincial Delegation of Agriculture.
(c)  Annual evaluation of the progress made by UCCAO con-
cerning UCCAO's coffee marketing arrangements.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1989
through   September 15, 2003                  715,000
On   March 15, 2004                                765,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 29 -
Premium on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment   -                         Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before                     1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of   -    , 198i.
FOR SECRETARY


