K7i2L  zo/zz a
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
~~~~.       *    ..11|:'1     
Report No.10521-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
July 24, 1992
Soathern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUSPRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of February 1992)
Currency Unit   Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
ZK I = USD 0.00S
USD I = ZK 125.00
F!SCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND NiEASLURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoZ                 Bank of Zambia
BIS                 Bank for International Settlements
CTS                 Contractor Training Specialist
DC                  District Council
DCU                 Distri. Cooperative Union
DFI                 Development Financial Institution
ERC                 Economic Recovery Credit
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FINNIDA             Finnish Development Agency
FMA                 Farmers Marketing Association
FPS                 Floor Pricing System
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
ICC                 InJependent Commercial Cooperative
INDECO              Industrial Development Corporation
IRR                 Internal Rate of Return
IT                  Independent Trader(s)
LB                  Lima Bank
LST                  Large-scale Trader
MIADIA              Managing Agricultural Development in Africa
MAFF                Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MCTI                Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry
rMDM               NMarket Development and Monitoring
MiLG                Ministry of Local Government
MLIC                Marketing and Logistics Information Center
MIOF                Ministry of Finance
NAMBOARD            National Agricultural Marketing Board
NENIIC              National Economic NManagement and Implementation Committee
NORAD               Norwegian Development Agency
OGL                 Open General License
PCB                 Participating Commercial Bank
PCU                 Provincial Cooperative Union
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
PIRC                Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMA                 Participating Marketing Association
PRP                 Policy Reform Package
PRE                 Provincial Roads Engineer
PSD                 Private Sector Development
RDEP                Roads Department
REC                 Roads Engineering Credit
RIF                 Rural Investment Facility
RRRNf               Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
RRU                 Rural Roads Unit of RDEP
SMR                 Strategic Maize Reserve
SST                 Small-scale Trader
TA                  Technical Assistance
TCP                 Technical Committee on Privatization in ZIMCO
VOC                 Vehicle Operating Cost
ZABS                Zambia Bureau of Standards
ZCF                 Zambia Cooperative Federation
ZIMCO               Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZNBC                Zambia National Commercial Bank



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
A!a=CULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR:
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   ..............................    i-v
I. THE AGRICULTUtRE SECTOR   ....                    ....  ........................                         1
A. Agriculture In the Economy  ..........................    I
B. Development Strategy and Priorities  .....................    2
C. Project-Related Institutions ...........................    4
D. Financial Sector ............  .........   5
E. The Private Sector ................................   12
F. Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure ....                 .......   13
G. Bank Group Support ...............................   18
H. Lessons Learned  .................................   18
H. THE PROJECT                     ............................................                           19
A. Project Rationale and Objectives  .......................   19
B. Project Summary Description  .........................   20
C. Detailed Project Features ............................   21
D. Project Costs  ...................................   27
E. Financing ......................................  27
F. Procurement ....................................   29
G. Disbursements  ..................................   30
H. Accounts and Audits ...............................   32
MI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .............                           ..        ..................   33
A. Project Organization ...............................   33
B. Implementation Responsibility  .........................   33
C. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  .....................   34
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ........................... ...   35
A. Benefits .......................................  35
B. Environmental Impact ..............................   39
C. Gender Focus  ...................................   39
D. Risks  ........................................   39
V. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES, AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                 ..... 40
Thi report is based on the FAO/CP pp on report ad the findings of a pppiipp               imisiom that visited
Znmbis September 16 to October 3, 1991 and Januuy 20 to Febnza  15, 1M  respectively. The mission compisd
Mess. B. Zege (mtission leader and agricultual economist), T. Baddar (etdit specialist). I. Shulker (economist), M.
de Langen (transportation economist), C. Nilason (roads engineer). R. Cahoon (roads enginr).  Mr. 1. LAreithi
(economist) finalized the appmisal of the project during March 30.31, 1992. Ms. 0. Donovan (economist) and 1.
Icotalo (road  uinticnane specialist) reviewed the project design. Ms. Emma  S. Svec poide  secretarial upport in the
ppmtion of the project. Meassa. Chaim Heiman and Stephen Denning are the managing Division Chief and Department
Director, respecively, for the opereaion.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usea by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



tables 
Table 1: Ownership and Pirticipation Criteria for PCBs ........ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
Table 2: Project Cost Summary ............... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. ..    .   27
Table 3: Financing Plan ......... ........           .......................  28
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ..................  29
Table 5: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  ..........................  32
Table 6: Estimated Financial Rates of Return of Selected Investments .... ........  37
Table 7: Sensitivity Analysis for Economic Rates of Return  ..................  38
Annexes
Annex 1:      Maize and Fertilizer Marketing and Maize Pricing
Table 1.      Projected Development of Private Sector in Maize and Fertilizer
Subsectors
Table 2.      Maize Price Structure in 1992
Arnex 2:      Project Financial and Economic Analyses
Table 1.      Projected Cash Flow for 10-Ton Truck
Table 2.      Projected Cash Flow for Tractor with 10-Ton Trailer
Table 3.      Projected Cash Flow for 1.5-Ton Truck
Table 4a.     Economic Analysis - Medium Term Credit Investment Costs and
Benefits
Table 4b.     Economic Analysis - Rural Roads Program Investment Costs and
Benefits
Table 5.      Economic Analysis - Project Costs and Benefits
Annex 3:      Project Cost Estimates
Table .       Detailed Costs - Rehabilitation of Rural Roads
Table 2.      Detailed Costs - Market Development and Monitoring
Table 3.      Detailed Costs - Technical Assistance
Annex 4:      Status of Project Audits in Zambia
Annex 5:      Terms of Reference for Consultants
Annex 6:      Selection and Appraisal of Participating Commercial Banks
Annex 7:      Supervision Plan
Annex 8:      Summary of Key Project Indicators
Anrex 9:      Gu.delines for Project Accounting
Map
IBRD Map 23688



ZAMB'A
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
lBorrower:          Government of the Republic of Zambia
Beneficiarie:       Ministry of Agriculture, Food and FiFheries; Bank of Zambia (BoZ);
participating Commercial Banks (PCBs); commercial cooperatives and
marketing associations, private enterprises, maize mills, and Zambia
Bureau of Standards.
Amount:             SDR 24.1 million (USD33.0 million equivaleiit)
TesI :              Standard IDA terms, with forty years maturity
Qn-lending Terms:   (a) For credit component: BoZ, acting on behalf of the Government of
Zambia, to PCBs at BoZ's discount rate or a three month savings deposit
rate, whichever is higher; (b) For technical assistance: Ministry of
Finance to participating commercial cooperatives or farmers' associations
as interest-free loans.
Protject Objctives:   The proposed Project aims at increasing agricultural production in
response to recently adopted economic reforms. It will assist Zambia to
transform its highly regulated financial sector, and inefficient maize
marketing and milling, fertilizer distribution, and rural transportation
systems into more competitive and efficient ones. The main objectives
of the Project will be to: (i) support and deepen the implementation of
financial reforms initiated under the stabilization and structural
adjustment programs; (ii) stimulate private sector participation in these
activities; (iii) commercialize these activities by drastically reducing
government involvement, making them more responsive to free market
prices and commercial bank financing and less dependent on budgetary
subsidies; (iv) rehabilitate rural roads and transportation that are essential
for increased agricultural production; (v) rehabilitate, on a pilot basis,
about 20,000 ha of abandoned or underutilized commercial farms in
areas of high production potential; and (vi) promote women's access to
credit and job opportunities generated by the Project.
Proiect Description:  The Project will be implemented over a five-year period and consists of
five components. (i) Private Sector Development (PSD) will support
increased private sector participation in rural marketing, input supply,
maize milling, rural transportation, and rural road maintenance by
lending for working and investment capital to private enterprises,
independent cooperatives or farmers associations, and labor-intensive
road contractors. (ii) Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(RRRM) will support rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of rural roads in
Central, Lusaka, and Southern provinces, which will become major
sources of maize supply when market liberalization and price decontrol
are fully implemented, and provide institutional and financial support to



..
strengthen the capacity for road maintenance in the office of the
Provincial Roads Engineer (PRE) by establishing a rural roads unit in
each of the three provinces. (iii) Market Development and Monitoring
(MDM) will provide support to the Marketing and Logistics Information
Center (MLIC) for the collection, analysis, and dissemination of mnarket
information and for providing training seminars to private traders; and
to Zambia Bureau of Standards (ZAAS) for establishing and monitoring
standards for animal feed, maize, and vegetable oils. (iv) A Policy
Reform Package will support the creation of an environment conducive
to the successful achievement of project objectives by enhancing the
profitability of project investments and deepening policy reforms and
institutional improvements initiated under the ongoing Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC), the recently approved Privatization and
Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC), and the proposed Roads Engineering
Credit (REC) through supporting the removal of subsidies and price
controls on fertilizer, maize, and the transportation of these two
products, the enactment of privatization legislation, the leasing of public
grain storage facilities, and increased autonomy and accountability for
cooperatives. (v) Technical Assistance will be provided to suppo;t the
implementation of PSD, RRRM, and PRP by providirg professional
management teams to selected independent cooperatives or marketing
associations; roads engineers, and a contractor training specialist; a
market information specialist for MLIC; a grading and stardards
specialist for ZBS; monitoring and evaluation consultancy; annu9l atoject
auditing consultancy; a maize export study to determine Zambiat' ;  qrt
opportunities; aid short-term consultants to run seminars and worksnops
for private trade, s.
Benefits:           The achievement of project objectives will facilitate agriculture's supply
response to the improved policy environment resulting from the country's
adjustment program. The Project will enable both farmers and rural
enterprises to respond to the improved incentive structure by increasing
agricultural production. The major benefits of the Project will be
increased agricultural production and improved efficiency in the
production and supply of food, with an associated long-run reduction in
the cost of food to both the rural and urban populations, improved
household food security, and increased incomes to farmers and rural
enterprises. Increased production, cost savings, and increases in
efficiency will result from an improved policy environment; a change in
marketing, processing, and production patterns; and rehabilitation of
rural transportation infrastructure. The Project will also facilitate the
removal of price controls and subsidies on food, resulting in considerable
budgetary saving to the Government.  The majority of project
beneficiaries will be women, who are major participants in most project
activities. Overall project economic rate of return is estimated at 24
percent.



iii
Bhki:                The Project's main risk lies in the limited capability of the Government
to implement the requisite reforms to improve the incentive structure for
farmers and other private agricultural enterprises. This risk will be
minimized by improving its implementation capacity during the transition
period through a strong technical assistance component.



iv
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Project Cost Summary
Project Components                             Proiect Costs
-USD Million-----
Local     Foreign      Total
Private sector development             20.4         10.5      30.9
Rural road rehabilitation &             3.6         10.9      14.5
maintenance
Market development and monitoring       0.1          1.6       1.7
Tedhnical assistance                    3.2          3.7       6.9
:    base . sts                     27.3        26.7       54.0
Physical contxigencies                0.4          1.2       1.6
Price contingencies                   9.6          2.8      12.4
Total Project Costs                    37.3         30.7      68.0
Einancing Plan
------ ----  USD Million----------
Local     Foreign        Total
IDA                   9.6         23.4         33.0
AtDB                  5.2          7.3         12.5
Government           15.5            -         15.5
Commercial bank       3.5                       3.5
Beneficiaries         3.5            -          3.5
Total                37.3         30.7         68.0



v
Estimated Bank/IDA Disbursement Schedule
(USD million)
Project Year                 FY 93    FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97   FY 98   FY 99
Annual disbursement          2.0       6.0     8.0     6.0     6.0      3.0      2.0
Cumulative annual
Disbursement (USD million)    2.0    8.0    16.0    22.0    28.0    31.0       33.0



I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Agriculture In the Econemy
1.01         Introduction. Zambia is a landlocked country, covering an area of 752,620 km2
and lying mainly on a plateau ranging from 900 to 1,500 m. The annual population growth rate
over the last two decades averaged about 3.7 percent, and in mid-1989 the population was
estimated at about 7.9 million. Administratively, Zambia is divided into 9 provinces and 57
districts. About 60 percent of the population is concentrated in four provinces (Southern,
Central, Lusaka, and Copperbelt) along what is known as the line-of-rail. The country's urban
population accounts for about 50 percent but urbanization is consiuerably higher in the above
provinces.
1.02         Zambia's real GDP r ew at an average annual rate of only 2 percent between
1983 and 1988. Because population growth has increased faster than GDP, per capita GDP has
consistently declined.
1.03         The major structural shift in the economy has been a relative decline in the
.nining sector's share of GDP from 41 percent in 1965 to about 15 percent in 1988, while value
added from the services sector has expanded from 32 percent to approximately 43 percent of the
total. Output of the agriculture sector has failed to expand sufficiently to change the sector's
relative share-14 percent of GDP.
1.04         Agriculture's relative share of GDP masks the dependence of Zambians on the
sector. About 50 percent of the population depend directly on agriculture for their livelihood.
Agriculture employs 67 percent of the labor force in the formal sector and it remains by far the
major opportunity for employment for rural women. Food imports (mainly wheat, dairy
products, and vegetable oils) account for at least 10 percent of the total value of the country's
imports, and agricultural exports (mainly tobacco and cotton) account for less than 2 percent of
total export earnings.
1.05         Structure and Performance of the Sector. Agricultural production is carried
out by four categories of farmers. imallholder farmers, numbering about 460,000, cultivate an
average of 2 hecta: s each with family labor and simple hand tools and produce primarily for
their own subsistence with only an occasional marketable surplus. Emergent farmers (small-scale
commercial farmers), numbering about 120,000, cultivate an average of 10 to 20 hectares and
produce a large marketable surplus using oxen plows, improved seeds, and fertilizers. Some
26,000 medium-and large-scale commercial farme  . -ach cultivate 30 to 600 hectares, utilizing
hired labor and oxen or tractors and a broadr  . . nological base. Commercial agriculture,
mainly concentrated along the line-of-rail and . : *ern Province, has been the major source of
agricultural growth, increasing its share fron i:S to 55 percent of agric. '"ural output between
1965 and 1988. Meanwhile, the real rate of growth in traditional (subsistence) agriculture has
been stagnant and its relative share has declined significantly.
1.06         Agriculture's annual growth, averaging 3.5 percent during 1980-88, was far
below its growth potential and also below the annual population growth. Most of the recent
growth in the sector is attributable to increased production of maize, sugar, and wheat. Although
annual growth rates between 198.1 and 1988 were better than during the period 1965-83, total
production has not exhibited a sustained upward trend, largely because of govermnent policy that
reduced producers' incentives. Lack of incentive has been largely the result of a highly
overvalued exchange rate and other distortions (e.g., price controls).



-2 -
1 07          Agricultural Growth Potential. Although Zambia's agroecology and abundance
of nawlral resources (land and water, forestry, fisheries, and wildlife) permiit a wide variety of
farming systems, little structural change or diversification has taken place in agriculture. There
is considerable potential for increased production and diversification in all subsectors, including
horticulture, livestock, and wildlife. Zambia's irrigation potential is considerable but only 6
percent of it is utilized. Zambia's land supply is also abundant and there are about one million
ha of underutilized or abandoned farms (para 1.12). Labor constraints tend to counteract its
potential impact on production and productivity, but these constraints can be alleviated through
increased use of animal power and mechanization.
B. Development Strategy and Priorities
1.08          Recognizing the need to improve and sustain the economy'?  -"fe .Aaihce, the
Government has initiated a r.w policy and institutional reform program. ^.   "0, 2 Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) was agreed on with the World Bank and the International ..lonetary
Fund as the first step in the stabilization and adjustment process. The major components of this
program are: (i) decontrol of all prices of products (except maize) and inputs; (ii) adjustment of
the exchange rate in real terms and the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions; (iii)
liberalization of export and import trade, while providing export incentives; (iv) implementation
of fiscal austerity measures to reduce budget deficits and control domestic inflation; (v)
implementation of monetary policy measures to adjust interest rates and tighten money supply;
(vi) implementation of a public investment program reform focusing resource allocation on
priority sectors and programs; (vii) implementation of a civil service and parastatal sector reform
program to improve efficiency and performance; and (viii) implementation of a privatization
program to encourage private sector participation in future economic growth.
1.09          Several measures have already been introduced and efforts have been increased
since the new government was voted into power in October 1991. These include progressive and
ongoing devaluation of the kwacha and introduction of a dual exchange rate system; elimination
of all price controls (except for maize, which is only partially decontrolled); removal of subsidies
on agricultural commodities (except consumer subsidies on maize meal), fertilizer, and
transportation; increased interest rates; incentives for increased exports; and restructuring of
public expenditures. The Government is also committed to privatizing m-t of the parastatals and
is preparing national investment guarantee and privatization legislation. It is premature to
evaluate the effect of the program, alihough there are already some positive signs, includinig a
decline in inflation from 150 percent in 1990 to an estimated 120 percent in 1991.
1.10          Adjustment Priorities i.l Agriculture. In the short term, the policy reform
priorities in agriculture consist of: '!'. promoting private sector participation in agricultural
marketing, input distribution, and ag.,processing through removal of price controls on maize
meal, import and export restrictions, and liberalization of maize, seed, and fertilizer marketing;
(ii) improving agriculture's incentive structure by eliminating price controls and introduction of
market-determined producer prices for products and inputs; and (iii) restructuring public
expenditures for agriculture by eliminating maize, fertilizer, ar.d transport subsidies a '
concentrating limited budgetary resources on priority programs that are intended to improve
farmers' incentives and production efficiency, especially research and extension, the collection
and dissemination of market information, establishing and monitoring standards for agricultural
products, the provision of credit, and infrastructure development (especially rural roads and
transportation).



3 -
1.11          In the long term, priority policy reforms include: (i) sustaining improvements in
the incentive structure through appropriate exchange rate and monetary policies; (ii) stimulating
private sector developnient and participation in the provision of rural financial services,
marketing, storage, processing, and transportation; (iii) eliminating restrictions on export of food
grains; (iv) implementing r tforms in the management and delivery of basic agricultural services
so that these become more efficient and relevant to farmers' needs; (v) investing more in human
capital (education, health, food security, and nutrition) to improve the quantity and quality of the
agricultural labor supply; (vi) implementing reforms In traditional land tenure systems to provide
security in land anci credit facilitation generated by commercial agriculture; and (vii 'formulating
a land use policy to encourage long-term, on-farm investments and optimal use of land in large-
scale commercial agriculture.
1.12          Land expansion has been and remains the best option for increasing agricultural
production in Zambia. At Zambia's independence, however, man,y arge-scale comm' <nal farms
were abandoned by expatriate ,armers. In recent years, the deterioration in the economy and the
policy-induced disincentives in agriculture have resulted in considerable underutilization of land.
A study to assess underutilization in commercial farms is currently being prepared.  To
implement the findings of the study, a pilot subcomponent to rehabilitate a few abandoned and
underutilized farms will be included in this Project. Many of the recommendations of the study
will be implemented under the proposed Agricultural Diversification and Financial Services
Project (FY94).
1.13          The new liberalized marketing and pricing system for maize and fertilizers will
have short-term effects on r oduction and marketing. In the medium term, price decontrol and
market liberalization will e  .urage maize production near the main consumption centers, where
farmgate prices will be highest because the cost of transport to mills and urban markets will be
the lowest. Contra.y to common belief in the country, maize production will not only be
concentrated along the line-of-rail but will also gravitate to areas close to provincial or district
consumption centers. Production in non-line-of-rail provinces will be mainly intended for
intraprovincial trade, which accounts for almost half of the domestic maize trade. Interprovincial
trade, accounting for the other half, will cease to be profitable for marketing agencies in non-line-
of-rail provinces (e.g., Eastern Province). Instead, the entire consumption in major urban centers
will be met by production from areas along the line-of-rail. In terms of transport costs, these
areas provide the cheapest source of maize for major urban areas and also the most likely source
of maize for export.
1.14          Lusaka and Copperbelt cities account for over 60 percent of domestically traded
maize consumption. Supplying these centers from low-cost provinces will reduce consumer
prices for roller meal by at least 14 percent in 1992 under free market prices. Because most non-
line-of-rail provinces are self-sufficient in maize production, price decontrol and market
liberalization will simply encourage them to sustal,A their respective self-sufficiency levels and
discourage production beyond self-sufficiency. Cost savings in these areas could be as high as
37 percent (annex 1, table 2). It is possible that Eastern and Northern provinces, which will lose
the above markets, could continue producing surplus maize for export to neighboring Malawi,
Mozambique, and Zaire.



-4 -
C. Project-Related Institutions
1.15         Following are the main institutions involved in the development of agricultural
marketing, processing, and transport infrastructure.
1.16         The Ministry of Agriculture Food and Fisheries (MAFF) is responsible for
promoting increased agricultural production and productivity by providing support services in
research, extension, surveying and investigat;on, planning, and cooperative development. The
ministry's activities at the provincial level ai ^ coordinated by a provincial agricultural officer.
1.17         Cooperatives collect and market agricultural crops and provide seasonal credit
to finance the supply of improved seeds and tI rtilizers as well as the operation of hamniermills
and consumer shops. Tre cooperat.ve system consists of primary societies at the grassroots level,
district and provincial cooperaLive unions at the secondary level, and the Zambia Cooperative
Federation (ZCF) as the chief organization at the national level. ZCF offers support to the
PCUs such as training and procurement of goods and services. ZCF is also involved in
supplying farm credit, transporting produce using its own trucks, and purchasing and moving
maize for the strategic reserve. The Department of Cooperatives in MAFF provides support
services to cooperatives. A provincial cooperative officer in each province is responsible for
marketing opcrations by cooperative. The provincial cooperative officers are supported in each
district by an audit sertion and district cooperative officers. In the past, the ncw defunct
Ministry of Cooperatives provided subsidies to the PCUs for marketing maize and fertilizers.
The practice of providing PCUs with thejR subsidies and government-guaranteed bank loans is
currently under review. Tfheir anticipated eliminatior. will impose severe constraints on the ability
of many cooperatives, especially those operating at low efficiency, to perform their traditional
functions and many are expected to discontinue operations. Their closure is likely to be balanced
by expanding the activities of commercial farmers' cooperatives (para 1.36) and the entry of
private sector traders.
1.18         The Marketing and Logistics Information Center (MLIC) is a newly created
unit of the MAFF. Its primary function is to collect, analyze, and disseminate relevant
information on markets for agricultural commodities. It will also provide training seminars and
workshops for participants in the agricultural marketing system to develop their understanding
of private sector markets.
1.19         The Ministry of Power, Transport and Communications (MPTC) has the
overall responsibility for transport policy and regulation. The ministry has separate departments
for power, transport, and communications, each headed by a deputy permanent secretary. The
deputy permanent secretary for transport is responsible for all transport policy matters, including
roads, rail, and air. The ccnstruction and maintenance of the country's road network, however,
are the responsibility of two other government agencies, the Ministry of Works and Supplies
(para 1.20) and the District Councils. The commercial functions for each iransport mode are
undertaken by the parastatals, operating under Zambia In.1ustrial and Mining Corporation
(ZIMCO), the holding company. The ministry performs its regulatory functions through the
Road Traffic Commission and the Roads Traffic Board, and its planning function through the
Transport Planning Unit.
1.20         The Ministry of Works and Supplies, through the Roads Department (RDEP),
is responsible for the planning, construction, and maintenanze of the primary road network.
Headed by the director of roads, the Roads Department is responsible for managerial control,



procurement of works under contract, procurement of design and supervision services, and
coordination of road maintenance work. The Roads Department is organized along provincial
lines, with a provincial roads engineer in each province, and its works are carried out through
contractors under its supervision.
1.21         ZCCM  and INDECO Mills are the two parastatals in charge of large-scale
commercial milling of maize and wheat.  ZCCM's subsidiary, Mulungushi Investment
Companies, produces maize meal exclusively for ZCCM's copper mines. INDECO maize mills,
with the largest market share, have a total installed capacity of 799,600 tonnes a year, or 97
percent of large-scale commercial maize milling capacity in the country. Under the new policy,
all consumer subsidies on maize meal will be paid directly to the mills. This system will remain
in place until all subsidies on maize meal are removed, possibly by mid-1992.
1.22         The Zambia Bureau of Stand irds (ZABS) is a statutory body under the
Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry responsible for national standards. Although this
organization has been effective in establishing standards, it currently lacks the facilities and
equipment to monitor industry compliance with these standards in a timely fashion. Given the
current policy incentives to promote exports, the institution should also improve its information
service to exporters by providing information on standards requirements in other countries
through computerization of their information system and increased access to international
standards databases.
D. Financial Sector
1.23         Background.  The financial sector in Zambia has been affected by the
persistently high Government budget deficits, and the consequent inflation and negative real
interest rates in recent years. High levels of government borrowing and privileged access of the
parastatals to credit have crowded out the private sector. There are also significant policy-
induced distortions in the financial market. Addressing these issues is one of the main objectives
of the Government's stabilization program and a prerequisite for the Bank of Zambia (BoZ) to
actively promote the development of financial markets in the country. Distortions in rural
financial markets are discussed in more detail below, followed by a discussion of the
macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment programs being implemented to correct the
distortions in the financial sector. Finally, the role of the proposed Project in complementing the
macroeconomic adjustment program and providing credit to the agricultural sector during the
transition period is discussed.
1.24         Structure. Zambia's banking system is relatively well developed in terms of the
number and diversity of institutions. In addition to the Bank of Zambia (the central bank), the
sector includes twelve commercial banks (all of them private, except one), two parastatal
development financial institutions (DFIs), and the savings organizations (the Post Office Savings
Bank, Zambia Credit Union and Savings Association [CUSAJ, and National Savings and Credit
Bank [NSCBJ), and eleven other financial institutions. Most commercial banks operate with a
network of branches and sub-branches in provincial and major district towns. They have limited
rural orientation in their provision of financial services. Most lending is short-term, and the
money market lacks depth.
1.25         Rural financial services are limited and poorly developed in terms of financial
markets. Lima Bank (LB), Zambia Cooperative Federation - Financial Services (ZCF-FS),
CUSA, and NSCB are the major providers of rural financial services, mainly consisting of



savings or deposit and credit facilities. The history of Zambia's rural financial sector has been
characterized by changes in the names of financial institutions servicing agriculture without
fundamental reforms in the institutions' mandates and operating policies or procedures. For
example, the Land and Arricultural Bank, inherited at independence, was renamed the Credit
Organization of Zambia but collapsed in 1970; it was replaced by the Agricultural Finance
Company (AFC). In 1979, this was changed to the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank,
which gave way to the Lima Bank in 1986. All government-owned rural financial institutions
intended to target credit to agriculture have suffered from:  (i) skill deficiencies among
professional and administrative support staff; (ii) lack of medium- and long-term corporate
planning; (iii) lack of autonomy evidenced by frequent government interventions in management;
(iv) inadequate capital structure and financial resources; and (v) inappropriate corporate, iructure
and culture. These problems have prevented rural financial institutions from providing adequate
financial services to the rural population and enterprises.
1.26         Financial Market Distortions. For reasons described above, and also because
past interest rate policies constrained banks from charging the rates necessary to allow them to
extend their activities to rural areas on a financially profitable basis, commercial banks have
provided only limited services to the rural sector, including agriculture. In order to compensate
for the policy distortions that restricted the supply of commercial credit to the rural sector, the
Government provided subsidized credit. This credit has been channelled mainly through
specialized financial institutions and, to a limited extent, commercial banks. Subsidized credit
has been characterized by lou fixed interest rates, quite often negative in real terms, administered
by BoZ. These, together with low recovery rates, have eroded the financial integrity of both
financial institutions and credit programs.  More prudence in extending credit and loan
supervision has accounted for better recovery performance by commercial banks. Low or
negative interest rates have also inadvertently discouraged savings, leaving most credit programs
of specialized financial institutions dependent on government budgetary allocations or donor
funds. Current levels and structure of interest rates are presented in para 1.32. In addition, the
effects of farmer access to subsidized credit as an incentive for adoption of new technologies have
not been encouraging.
1.27         Market distortions brought about by government policy have caused commercial
banks to perceive lending to agriculture as a high-risk operation with high transaction costs.
Consequently, lending to agriculture by the financial institutions has been closely linked with the
input supply and crop marketing functions of marketing agencies (e.g., LINTCO) and marketing
cooperatives (especially PCUs). Under the administered single-channel marketing system, loan
disbursements have been traditionally tied to "local purchase orders" (credit-in-kind) and loan
repayments to marketing through a "stop order system". Although this system has allowed
lending institutions to operate without requiring tangible securities from borrowers and has
facilitated loan recovery at minimum costs, it can only function under a single-channel marketing
system. Recent further market liberalization in the sector has led to the collapse of both the local
purchase order and stop order systems. Consequently, credit recovery rates among major
lenders, except commercial banks, have fallen below viable levels, and the credit programs of
all rural financial institutions are no longer sustainable, necessitating huge government subsidies.
1.28         Commercial banks that have lent to the agriculture sector have relied on relatively
effective credit recovery strategies, including strict lending criteria and close supervision of loans.
Loan recovery by commercial banks averaged 87 percent of their agricultural portfolios to
smallholders during the period 1989-91. Although the BoZ operates a guarantee scheme for
small loans to small-scale enterprises, most commercial banks have been reluctant to make use



-7 -
of it and have preferred to lend on the basis of the creditworthiness of the borrower or credit
proposal. In lending to marketing cooperatives for crop and fertilizer procurement, however,
conmnercial banks have relied on govermment guarantees.  Loan disbursements to these
cooperatives have been made against a government guarantee repay in case of default. These
repayment defaults by the cooperatives have become a major drain on the government
budget and a significant cause of budgetary deficits In recent years. Reliance on government
guarantees by commercial banks has inhibited the development of suitable financial instruments
for crop purchase and input distribution in the country. As part of its policy reforms, the new
Government has declared that it will no longer provide funds (through the budget) nor
guarantee commercial loans to cooperatives and private traders for procurement of maize
and fertilizer. Instead, commercial banks will have to provide such facilities to borrowers on
a purely commercial basis and at their own risk.
1.29         Financial Sector Reform and Strategy. Several reforms in the financial sector
are being initiated and will be implemented under various stabilization and structural adjustment
programs supported by the Bank and IMF. These reforms, taken together, constitute a financial
sector reform program. The major programs that contain significant financial reforms include
the short-term stabilization measures supported by the Bank's Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
and the IMF's monitored program. The long-term structural reforms supported, initially, by the
Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC), will be implemented under several structural
adjustment operations in the next five years. Future reforms in the financial sector will mainly
involve changing from stringent liquidity and reserve requirements and credit ceilings, to
instruments of indirect monetary control. In the immediate future, the priority in the banking
sector is to amend the banking legislation to strengthen the capacity and authority of the BoZ in
areas of banking supervision and prudent regulation.
1.30         Short-term  Stabilization Measures. Economic stabilization is a necessary
condition for financial deepening and the development of financial markets in Zambia. The
Government's stabilization policies for 1992-94 are set out in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
considered by the Committee of the Whole on March 17, 1992. The program objective (pre-
drought) is to achieve real GDP growth rates of 2% in 1992, 3% in 1993 and 4% in 1994,
implying a positive real per capita growth by the end of the 1992-94 PFP p;.,:iod. Gross
investment is expected to grow to about 20% in 1994, more in line with the experience of the
1980s (however, investment statistics are particularly inaccurate and conclusions should be drawn
with care). This rise in private investment will be facilitated by a fiscal policy seeking to increase
public savings and shift financial resources to the private sector, and a monetary policy seeking
to attract savings through a positive interest rate policy. The most daunting task is to lower
inflation from about 100% in 1991 to 45% in 1992, 15% in 1993 and 5% in 199a' (all on a
calendar year basis). The stabilization plan is to achieve a primary budget deficit (excluding
grants) of no more than 2% of GDP in 1992, full balance in 1993 and a small surplus in 1994.
The IMF is working closely with Zambia on this issue, and is ensuring that all necessary
measures are being implemented to bring inflation under control. In view of their importance,
these measures are key irs4icators of Government determination to recover control of the
economy. The primary measure to achieve this is the rapid elimination of all subsidies, of which
the principal ones have been for maize and fertilizer. Monetary and interest rate policies are key
elements of the stabilization strategy.
1.31         Monetary and Interest Rate Policies. The adoption of positive interest rates is
an essential element of the financial sector strategy. BoZ has established a target for broad
money growth of 25 percent for 1992. This is lower than the year on year inflation objective (45



-8v
percent) since it is anticipated that it will take some time for inflation tc decelerate as monetary
policy is tightened. In addition to monetary restraint, the Government has increased maximum
effective interest rates charged to borrowers to about 70%, which is equal to the inflation rate
targeted for the end of the first quarter 1992. Further increases may be necessary if inflation
turns out to be higher than expected. As inflation falls during the year, the interest rate ceiling
will be held constant, and interest rates charged to customers are expected to decline. To
encourage savings, efforts will also continue to be directed at raising bank deposit rates relative
to lending rates, particularly through reducing the proportion of non-interest bearing deposits
placed with the Bank of Zambia as mandatory reserves.
1.32         Under the stabilization program, the Government is committed to achieving
interest rates that are positive in real terms. To this end, the interest rate structure was recently
increased by five percentage points, so that: (i) the Bank Rate is now 47 percent; (ii) the
maximum lending rate of commercial banks is 51 percent; and (iii) the minimum interest rate on
balances in savings accounts is 38 percent (the banks are actually paying rates which are slightly
below the Bank Rate). Accordingly, commercial banks have increased their lending rate to 51
percent, implying a 4 percent spread relative to the Bank rate. The rate of interest on loans to
small-scale farmers and small-scale enterprises is capped at 47 percent, implying a spread of zero.
In addition to these minimal lending rates, banks are charging fees up front that make the
effective cost of borrowing exceed 70 percent (positive effective rates). The Government also
intends to decontrol interest rates after the annual inflation rate has been brought down to less
than 50 percent (i.e., by the end of 1992).
1.33         The Government's strategy to reduce inflation relies largely on money supply
management. For this purpose, mandatory reserve and liquidity requirements have been
increased; banks are required to hold 28 percent of their deposits with BoZ at no interest and to
maintain an overall liquidity ratio of about 60 percent. To offset the cost of these high liquidity
requirements and their effect on revenue, commercial banks have resorted to charging fees that
are paid up front, effectively increasing the interest rate and the spread on commercial loans.
The proposed credit component will fall within the overall credit ceiling and liquidity
requirements for restricting money supply growth. Although the proceeds of the credit will not
be subject to BoZ's reserve requirement, PCBs will have to maintain the overall liquidity ratio.
At this critical juncture of transition from controls to free market, the proposed credit will
increase the funds available to PCBs for lending to the private sector in agriculture. Even so,
the credit amount (USD30 million over a five year period) will constitute a marginal proportion
of the total lendings of the PCBs.
1.34         Longer-Term Structural Reforms. In the medium term, the priorities are to
hulp the Bank of Zambia move to more indirect methods of monetary control, and to develop the
money markets, thus encouraging term  transformation.  Strengthening the institutional
infrastructure, particularly the provision of financial services to informal arnd microenterprises
(including rural and agricultural), and of a small capital market will be important. Development
of sound contractual savings institutions will follow. In this context, the proposed Project will
help reduce Government expenditure and move presently subsidized activities to financing at
positive interest rates.
1.35         As part of the long-term structural reform, the Government has also initiated a
long-term program of financial sector reforms to improve the ability of the banking system to
play an effective role in supporting the country's development programs and resource
mobilization for its privatization program. The long-term objectives of this program are to: (i)



-9 -
gradually remove distortions in the interest rate structure to improve mobilization and allocation
of resources; (ii) eliminate the distortions introduced in the financial sector by government
!narantees for loans to the cooperXtives and parastatals; (iii) provide more market-oriented
entives for priority sector lending; (iv) make subsidies in priority sectors or activities more
transparent; (v) adopt appropriate monetary tools to control inflation; (vi) strengthen the
development of appropriate capital markets. Government envisions a program of reforms that
will move gradually toward a more competitive market-based system, indirect controls, a larger
private sector role, and increased autonomy and accountability for financial institutions remaining
under government control.
1.36         In the provision of traditional banking services, Zambia already has an
exceptionally competitive system of twelve banks, only one of which is majority state-owned.
The priority in banking reform in the medium term is to strengthen the regulatory ability of the
Bank of Zambia, so as to ensure proper capital adequacy and minimum capital requirements for
commercial banks and financial institutions, and to redefine the regulatory powers of the Bank
of Zambia to permit a more flexible and efficient approach in dealing with emerging problems.
A second urgent issue is to modernize the banking laws to permit banks to participate in the
privatization process, such as through buying and selling shares. Laws are already in draft form
to deal with the above. Other urgent issues, such as the provision of term credit, are to be
addressed in follow up credits, including the proposed Project. A number of consultancy studies
(Denmark, IDA) have already been completed on how to develop a Zambian stock exchange,
to permit trading in shares of companies to be floated, and a study team is currently visiting
neighboring exchanges. Government intends to modify current laws on this issue to permit the
development of an interim exchange by early 1993, and to ensu:e that when a full exchange is
established, it will be relevant to Zambia's needs.
1.37         Government will encourage greater competition in the provision of rinancial
services, such as pensions and building society funds, that are presently dominated by state
monopolies. Insurance is also dominated by the state company because it has a monopoly on re-
insurance, which effectively makes Zambia uninteresting to foreign insurance companies.
Legislation to remove these financial monopolies was announced in the 1992 Budget. A
regulatory system will be required within two years to supervise these sectors in a newly
competitive system.
1.38         Access to foreign exchange is regulated th.ough a foreign exchange account
known as the Open General License (OGL). This account is managed by the BoZ which
processes applications for foreign exchange on a first come, first serve basis. Due to the shortage
of foreign exchange in the country, there is usually a waiting period for foreign funds. However,
the waiting period has decreased from about six months to about two weeks between January
1992 and June 1992 as more foreign exchange has been channelled through the OGL. To avoid
distorting the market for foreign exchange, all foreign exchange needs for the credit component
of this project will be channelled through the OGL. Project beneficiaries requiring foreign funds
will follow the normal OGL application process.
1.39         Justification for Proposed Credit. Although there are several initiatives for
reforming the financial sector (paras 1.30-1.38), the liberalization and deepening of the financial
system is a long-term goal. In addition, experience from other countries undertaking financial
reforms suggests that following liberalization of the financial sector, commercial banks are slow
to increase lending to agriculture or rural microenterprises because it takes time to establish a
viable banldng netwoxk even in a liberalized interest rate regime and transaction costs and risks



- 10-
are higher than in other sectors. Although the Government's financial reform program is likely
to provide the requisite incentives for commercial banks to provide a wider coverage to the rural
sector than hitherto, building infrastructure, developing appropriate financial instruments and
adopting risk management techniques will take time. In the short and medium-term, the financial
needs of the rural sector, particularly of the emerging agribusiness enterprises following market
liberalization, are not likely to be met through the existing channels in their present state. Hence,
if the anticipated agricultural growth in response to improvements in the policy environment is
to materialize, directed lending as proposed under the Project (para. 2.06 and 2.07) will be
required during the transitional period until the commercial banks and other financial institutions
have had time to develop suitable instruments and expertise for dealing with the rural sector.
1.40          The Government decision to no longer provide funds or guarantee commercial
loans to cooperatives or private traders is a significant step toward the commercialization of credit
for procurement of maize and fertilizer. However, crops and inputs in transit are not suitable
collateral or security and commercial banks will find it difficult to lend to small and unestablished
traders entering the liberalized marketing system with no collateral other than goods-in-transit.
Because the emergence of private traders will be the cornerstone of the liberalized agricultural
marketing system, it is critical that commercial banks develop the skills and instruments necessary
to service small-scale agribusiness enterprises in the country. The proposed credit has as its
objectives: (i) the promotion of lending to rural areas, particularly during the transition from the
present highly regulated system to a free market system; (ii) restoring appropriate incentives to
commercial banks to lend on a commercial basis to creditworthy clients and viable investment
proposals; (iii) providing banks with term financing that they require to develop term lending for
investment purposes in the agricultural sector; and (iv) providing short-term credit to agribusiness
enterprises during the transition as a means to enable commetl.ial banks to develop appropriate
financial instruments to meet the needs of the growing agribusiness sector under market
liberalization. The proposed Project represents the first initiative to provide private traders with
access to commercial credit at reasonable market costs. In this sense, the Project constitutes a
significant departure from the tradition of relying on market-distorting government guarantees
against loans for crop and input procurement by commercial banks. The credit component of this
Project is critical in allowing the Government and the banking sector to make this transition.
During the market liberalization process under the stabilization program, the availability of
working capital to agrobusiness enterprises will be critical to the success of the Government's
market liberalization program, as indicated in para 1.51. Moreover, high inflation has resulted
in increased money demand to finance the purchase of crops and fertilizers by agribusiness
enterprises.
1.41          Role of Proposed Credit. The proposed Credit will support and deepen the
implementation of the macroeconomic initiatives being undertaken. Specifically, it will: (a)
facilitate the elimination of subsidies related to-maize and fertilizer marketing by transferring the
responsibility of financing the purchasing of thesc commodities from the Government to the
commercial banks; (b) provide for a monitorable time-bound plan of action to move toward
market-determined interest rates; (c) provide an effective mechanism for periodic adjustment of
interest rates under changing economic conditions to ensure that they remain positive at all times;
(d) contribute to the promotion of efficient and viable PCBs by requiring that they remain
financially sound and by supporting policy reforms that are conducive for efficient and profitable
banking business; (e) eliminate the distortions introduced by government guarantees for loans to
the cooperatives and parastatals (maize mills) in the financial system; and (f) provide a



- 11 -
transitional mechanism for commercial banks to develop suitable short-term lending instruments
to the growing private agribusiness sector.
1.42         Participating Commercial Banks (PCBs).  Three commercial banks have
indicated their interest in and are likely to qualify for participating in implementing the PSD
component. Additional commercial banks could qualify if and when they meet participation
criteria as stipulated in the Bank's OD 8.30. All PCBs will be appraised and qualified by IDA
supervision missions upon receipt of application for participation. PCBs that cease to meet the
participation criteria will be disqualified by IDA supervision missions. The ownership and
summary of the operations of the potential PCBs are summarized in Table 1. A brief description
of each potential PCB and financial ratios are presented in Annex 6. There has been a marked
decline in agricultural lendings, mainly reflecting reduced lending for maize and fertilizer
procurement by the commercial banks in the last two years. This was occasioned by delayed
liquidation of overdrafts by the cooperatives and the Government's delay in honoring its
guarantees, particularly during the 1990/91 marketing season. In addition, the Government
ceased to oblige commercial banks to provide overdraft facilities to cooperatives for maize and
fertilizer procurement. The financial ratios are quite satisfactory, particularly in view of the
policy constraints under which the banks have been operating. All three banks appear to have
sound management controls in place and are audited on an annual basis by independent
international auditing firms. While there is no evidence of financial distress in the banking
system, BoZ is interested in safeguarding the soundness of the banking system by introducing
new reporting requirements and comprehensive capital and loan exposure guidelines. It is the
intention of the Bank of Zambia, as soon as legislation allows, to introduce capital adequacy
requirements along the lines recommended by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS).
Capital adequacy levels are expected to increase as a result.
1.43         PCBs interest in participating in the implementation of the credit component is
largely based on their need to have access to term sources of capital for medium and long-term
lending. Domestic sources of medium term capital are extremely limited by the virtual lack of
capital markets. The provision of short-term credit to finance the purchasing of maize and
fertilizer on commercial terms and conditions is regarded by the PCBs as a significant step
towards the commercialization of crop and fertilizer financing which traditionally has been
associated with government control on interest rate and interventions in the PCB's freedom and
accountability for choosing credit risks and clients. The Project is perceived by the PCBs as an
important restoration of managerial autonomy with regard to decisions pertaining to financing
crop and fertilizer purchase. In addition, the effective spread of the PCBs on project funds will
be higher (10 percent) than that obtainable on deposits (4 percent) by about 6 percentage points,
despite the initial higher cost of borrowing project funds (i.e. 45 percent compared to only 38
percent for deposits).



- 12 -
Table 1: Ownership and Participation Criteria for PCBs
Name of PCB        Year   Ownership   Number of   Lending to   Term and   Loans and        Net
branches]'  agriculture    current    advances    operating
(% of total    deposits   (ZK       profit (ZK
portfolio)y   (ZK        million)    million)
million)
1. Barclays           1989     Private         32           66       3,400       3,200         n.a.
1990                     34           59       4,700       3,700         224
1991                     36           44      10,200       8,500         423
2. ZNCB               1988/89  Parastatal      40          n.a.      2,900       1,100          146
1989/90                  44         n.a.       5,300       2,000         450
1990/91                  50           25       9,700       4,200         990
3. Standard chartered    1988  Private         30           52        1,600      1,400          118
1989                     31           51       3,700       3,500         224
1990                     33           40       3,700       3,600         323
n.a.Not available
1/ Includes branches and agencies
a/ Includes both farm credit and crop purchasing loans
ourc: The Participating Commercial Banks' Annual Reports.
E. The Private Sector
1.44           Excessive regulation and control of private sector activity in the past has eroded
investor confidence and stifled private sector initiatives in most economic activities. However,
Zambia is now making considerable progress in establishing an improved business climate for
the private sector, including the decontrol of prices, introduction of an open general license
system (OGL) for imports, and the elimination of most of the restrictive aspects of import and
export licenses. The 1991 Investment Act has been instituted to protect private investors from
excessive government interference and expropriation. With donor support, a local legal firm has
undertaken a review of business-related legislation and has identified the aspects of business-
related law in need of revision. The Government is preparing proposals for addressing these
issues with the aim of implementing appropriate legislation in 1992. In a further move to
promote private sector participation in the economy, the Government announced in May 1990 that
it was prepared to sell up to 49 percent of its holdings in most parastatals. The Government has
also announced its intention to eventually transfer fully to the private sector all but public utilities
and natural monopolies. The privatization of parastatals is currently being initiated with the
assistance of consultants provided by IDA under the PIRC. The privatization of maize mills will
be implemented under the auspices of PIRC. The development of the private sector, particularly
of private agribusiness enterprises, will depend largely on the ability of the banking sector to
provide the requisite financial intermediation. This ability is currently constrained by the
Government's money supply management (para 1.32).



- 13 -
1.45         Independent Commercial Cooperatives (ICC).  Apart from the traditional
government-controlled cooperatives (para 1.17), there are about ten independent cooperatives that
belong to medium- and large-scale commercial farmers. So far, their major activity has included
the supply of agricultural irputs (e.g., fertilizers, chemicals, machinery, and irrigation spares).
Price control and legal prohibitions have caused them to shun product (including maize)
marketing. These cooperatives are managed on commercial basis and are financially viable.
They are better positioned, during the transition period, to replace the moribund traditional
cooperatives in maize marketing. The ICCs have indicated their desire to participate in maize
marketing, provided: (i) maize prices are decontrolled; (ii) the Government provides initial
technical assistance to help them manage the marketing of the 1991/92 and 1992/93 maize crops;
and (iii) funds for maize procurement are made available through the banking system. The
proposed Project will respond to these requirements.
F. Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure
1.46         Sustainable agricultural growth and an optimal pattern of production depend on
sound policies and the development of appropriate marketing and processing infrastructure
including storage, processing, and transport. Pricing and marketing policies and complementary
investments in institutions, storage, processing, and transportation are critical to providing an
economic environment that is conducive to growth and efficiency in agriculture.
1.47         Pricing and Marketing. Until November 1991, the GL   riment pursued an
interventionist agricultural strategy, including nationalization of maize miils, establishment of
parastatals and government-controlled cooperatives, regulated markets, price controls, and
subsidies. The cost of pursuing this strategy with its resultant distortions has been substantial
both in direct expenditure and foregone growth. As indicated earlier (para 1.06), the agricultural
growth rate was below the sector's growth potential. The strategy also distorted produc.ion
patterns and hindered development of private sector capacity to provida maize marketing and
fertilizer distribution services in the country. Although the Bank made n.iumerous efforts to help
Zambia achieve improved growth by moving to market-oriented policies during the 1980s, these
efforts failed as a result of inadequate political commitment. The new government realizes that
the policy mix of heavy government interventions, regulation, and concentration of resources on
subsidies provides a weak and unsustainable foundation for future growth. It prefers strategies
with a lower social cost and more desirable and effective outcomes. It feels that it has a strong
mandate for an economic reform program, including privatization of the parastatal sector and
promotion of private sector development to spearhead economic growth. The Government has
made a determined start by (i) substantially reducing maize subsidies, (ii) eliminating subsidies
and decontrolling prices on fertilizer from March 1, 1992, and (iii) planning to liberalize and
decontrol road haulage rates for maize and fertilizer. While the policy environment is improving,
faster production response and better efficiency in resource allocation will require: (i) stimulation
of the private sector investment in agricultural marketing, input distribution, maize milling, and
rural transportation; (ii) attainment of market-determined prices for maize and fertilizers; and (iii)
provision of adequate budgetary resources to rehabilitate rural roads leading to major production
areas. These will be supported under the proposed Project.
1.48         The liberalized maize marketing sector that will emerge in response to price
decontrol and removal of other market distortions is likely to be similar to that developed in
Tanzania following the liberalization of grain marketing. It is likely to have the following
structure during the transition period: (i) Small-scale traders (SST), possibly themselves maize
farmers, rural traders, and hammermill owners will enter the market opportunistically, purchasing



- 14 -
in surplus areas along the line-of-rail and transporting to nearby mills or wholesale markets,
which are likely to emerge in Lusaka and Copperbelt cities. SSTs may also act as primary
buying agents for mills or wholesalers. Their annual turnover may not exceed 300 bags in initial
years; and (ii) Large-Scale Traders (LST), possibly comprising existing district cooperative
unions (DCUs), provincial cooperative unions (PCUs), independent farmers' cooperative societies
(with medium- and large-scale farmers as predominant members), new farmers marketing
agencies (FMAs), and independent traders (ITs). They will have an average annual turnover of
500,000 bags. These two categories of traders can be expected to provide a healthy foundation
and reasonably competitive wholesale market in maize. During the transition period, however,
the liberalized maize market will display some weaknesses in its development and will require
support - which will be provided under the proposed Project.  Details on the projected
development of the private maize marketing sector are in Annex 1, Table 1.
1.49         Cooperatives, having enjoyed a monopoly in the past, are expected to have a
declining role in the liberalized agricultural marketing system. Assessment of the financial and
management capacity of the PCUs shows that it will be extremely difficult for them to compete
effectively without a reorientation in their business outlook and management culture. PCUs will
find it difficult to raise working capital from commercial banks because most of them are
insolvent, and the government will no longer provide them with loan guarantees for commercial
bank overdrafts. They also have historically been the buyer of last resort, and their traditional
sources of maize are extremely dispersed and often far from major markets, making it difficult
for them to compete with private traders and mills that will buy maize at locations closer to the
major mills or the line-of-rail. They also suffer from rranagerial inefficiency, demonstrated by
poor performance in the past, and this may exacerbate their inability to rationalize their
operations and adapt vo a competitive private sector marketing system.
1.50         New organizations have already begun to emerge in the private sector marketing
system, consisting of the SSTs and LSTs (para 1.48). The transformation of existing independent
and commercially viable input-supply cooperatives into multipurpose cooperatives with additional
responsibility for maize procurement and distribution will be crucial to successful marketing of
maize, especially during the transition period. The following cooperatives have agreed to
transform  themselves into marketing cooperatives:  Zambia Farmers Cooperative Society
(operating in Lusaka, Central, and Southern Provinces), ZATCO in Southern Province, Mukushi
Farmers Cooperative Society in Central Province, and Kabwe Farmers Cooperative Society in
Central Province. Many of these cooperatives and independent traders are likely to face
constraints encountered by similar agribusiness enterprises in liberalizing economies in the region
(e.g., Tanzania and Malawi): (i) the tightness of liquidity within the banking sector, caused by
the government's stabilization program, will .verely limit working capital availability for
purchasing maize and fertilizer; (ii) assembly traders (SSTs and ITs) may face delayed licensing
until it has become clear that primary cooperatives or DCUs cannot cope with the marketing of
the crop; (iii) scale of operation for mills, ITs, and FMAs opt to be involved in intra- and
interprovincial maize trade is likely to be limited by general lack of transport capacity, inadequate
working capital to purchase maize and fertilizer, and availability of storage capacity; and (iv)
managerial capacity in new marketing agencies to effectively and efficiently manage large-scale
maize marketing operations is limited. The proposed project will address these constraints.
1.51         In order to avert a collapse in the maize marketing system with resulting local and
national food shortages, the Government wil! need to play an active role in encouraging private
sector development. There are two roles that the Government can play. The first is to liberalize
both domestic and export maize marketing and decontrol maize prices at all levels. Accordingly,



- 15-
liberalization of maize marketing was a condition for Negotiations. Liberalization of maize
exports will provide a safety net for domestic producers and traders in case of falling prices in
the domestic market. With active export, export parity prices will become the de facto floor
prices. The second role is to provide both working capital and technical management assistance
to organizations that face constraints in these two resources. These will be provided under the
project.
1.52         Storage. Except for limited storage capacity at the larger mills, storage is, for
the most part, owned by the Government, and used free-of-charge by the cooperatives. Prior to
1988, these facilities were controlled by Namboard, but control was handed over to ZCF when
it assumed the functions of Namboard. Management of a strategic maize reserve also became
the responsibility of ZCF at that time.
1.53         Currently, maize storage capacity totals some 13.8 million bags, divided among
silos in Lusaka, Monze, Kitwe, Chisamba, Kabwe, and Ndola with 1.3 million bags; sheds with
3.6 million bags; and hardstandings with 8.9 million bags. Although the total storage represents
90 percent of the record maize crop of almost 15 million bags in 1988/89, only 35 percent is
covered storage. Storage distribution does not reflect the production patterns of the last five
years. Production in Eastern Province has averaged over 4.6 million bags in this period, but
storage capacity is reported to be only about 0.8 million bags; in Copperbelt Province, available
storage amounts to some 2.3 million bags, whereas production only amounts to 0.6 million bags.
1.54         Under the privatization initiative being undertaken by the Govermnent, the use,
management, and charges for these facilities are under review. The intention is to lease the
facilities to commercial parties. Given their varying condition, the question of who wil'. bear the
cost of rehabilitation will be negotiated between the Government and interested parties. A study
to evaluate the quantity and condition of these grain storage facilities is currently being
undertaken by MAFF and will be completed by April 1992. Satisfactory institutional
arrangements for leasing government-owned storage facilities was a condition for Board
presentation.
1.55         The development of new marketing patterns will ultimately dictate the location
and type of storage required. If the cooperatives' role in maize marketing diminishes, so too will
their storage requirements, even in surplus areas. If private grain merchants develop, their
requirements may increase. The leasing or selling of government storage facilities to interested
parties will allow a smooth transition of these changes. If substantial differences in grain prices
occur between seasons, farmers may be encouraged to store grain.
1.56         Processing. The processing of agricultural commodities is dominated by maize
milling. Since the nationalization of the major mills in 1987, maize processing and the supply
of meal to urban areas has been carried out by parastatals. There are also a few medium-sized
mills and hammermills owned by cooperatives. It is estimated that the combined milling capacity
of all mills and hammermills is about 22.5 million bags a year, which exceeds total maize
production. The location of these mills does not necessarily coincide with the location of the
effective demand, and there remains. an unsatisfied demand for breakfast and roller meal in many
urban areas, particularly those outside the line-of-rail provinces. There are several structural
constraints in the maize milling industry: low production efficiency because of low capacity
utilization; low and variable cost efficiency; government-controlled consumer prices based on
average costs of less efficient mills; lack of price competition among mills (centralized pricing
policy); lack of product differentiation (uniform product quality); inadequate commercial practices



- 16-
among mills (poor management information systems, lack of standard costing and flexible
budgetary control and the like ); and inadequate returns.
1.57         The Government has been promoting a hammermill program with the objective
of reducing demands on saasonal transport, storage, and handling; reducing milling costs; and
injecting an element of competition into the milling sector. Expansion of the hammermill
program has been proceeding satisfactorily. Because in the past their distribution was decided
on politic4.t grounds, it is highly probable that some mills have been installed too close together,
to the detriment of their viability. Additionally, insufficient attention is being given to the repair
and maintenar e of facilities in the rural areas. To avoid mislocation, financing of hammermills
under the Project will be based on viability evaluation by the PCBs.
1.58         The privatization of INDECO Group maize mills is being implemented under the
auspices of the PIRC. Privatization of the mills through full divestiture will permit mills to
introduce competitive commercial policies and practices in the milling industry and will enable
mills to attract needed investments for working capital and rehabilitation to support the
procurement and selling policies under the liberalized market. The proposed Project will
complement this privatization process by providing for working capital to mills to procure maize
for milling.
1.59         A Technical Committee on Privatization (TCP) in ZIMCO is responsible for
implementing the privatization of the INDECO Group mills. TCP, with the assistance of
consultants provided by IDA under the PIRC, will be responsible for determining the
privatization tranching, forms of privatization, and sales methods of each mill. TCP has agreed
to expedite the privatization of maize mills by tranching them to coincide with market
liberalization and price decontrol in the maize subsector.
1.60         Grading and Standards. Grading and standards monitoring of crops and inputs
are generally poor in Zambia. At present, ZABS has no laboratory testing facilities to monitor
the quality of produce and relies on accredited laboratories for this service. In some cases, the
only laboratories capable of testing a product are those of the manufacturers. Assured access to
laboratory testing facilities is important for the bureau to discharge its responsibilities. ZABS
has recently established mandatory standards for animal feed, which became operational in June
1991. These standards will rationalize production in the livestock industry, particularly for
poultry. The variable quality of animal feed has been one of the causes of the rapid decline in
the poultry industry since the early 1970s. Crop market integration will also be facilitated by
establishing and enforcing specific grades and standards for commodities. The Project will
provide for this.
1.61         Transport. The Zambian road network is comprised of international trunk,
main, district or rural, branch, and estate roads. There are 3,120 km of trunk roads, 4,050 km
of main roads; and about 29,600 km  of district or rural roads in the country.  About
6,000 km (17 percent) are paved, 8,400 km (23 percent) have a gravel surface, and 22,000 km
(60 percent) are unclassified earth roads. Most of the trunk and main roads are paved or gravel-
surfaced two-lane roads, whereas the lower road categories are often only a single unsurfaced
lane.
1.62         Each year, Zambia suffers substantial losses because maize is damaged by rain
as a result of late evacuation after harvest, and late delivery of fertilizer results in low crop
yields. Although these problems can be attributed in part to inefficiencies in the marketing



- 17 -
system and problems in fertilizer procurement, shortcomings in the transport sector are a major
factor. Road transport accounts for the bulk of the movement of agricultural products in the
country. Road development generally has been concentrated on the links to the seaports and
provincial centers, while rural roads have been seriously neglected. Poor rural conditions and
shortage of transport services often lead to high transport costs despite government tariff controls.
For exanmple, a World Bank Agriculture Sector Strategy Study (1992) estimated that transport
costs accounted for about 45 percent of the consumer price for maize meal. Improvements in
rural roads alone may not result in increased availability and efficiency of transport services for
goods and people. Adequate supply of suitable trucks through allocation of foreign exchange to
truck importers is a necessary condition. Road rates for maize and fertilizer and bus fares are
controlled by government, and this partly explains the high transport cost for maize and fertilizer.
The Zambia Truckers' Association, acting as a cartel, negotiates the rates applicable to maize and
fertilizer with the government before the beginning of each marketing and production season.
Liberalization and decontrol of tariff rates for these commodities will lead to reduction in
transport costs for commodities. The proposed Project will seek to achieve this (para 2.25).
1.63          Road transport infrastructure and services have deteriorated dramatically since
the early 1980s because of inadequate technical capacity and financial resources. The Roads
Department (RDEP) suffers from lack of adeouate staff because it is unable to attract experienced
and qualified engineers under the present government salary structure. In addition, RDEP is
operating with inadequate financial resources despite donor support, especially for the repair and
maintenance of main roads. The district councils (DCs), which are responsible for district, rural,
and branch roads, do not have the technical capacity, equipment, or financial resources to
maintain these roads. Each DC employs a small team of technicians and artisans to carry out
public works under a priority program, established by the DC, and approved by the Ministry of
Local Government(MLG). Largely because of the limited resources, road development and
maintenance have been totally neglected. The DCs have no capacity to implement rural roads
rehabilitation or maintenance and the prospects for improvement are poor.
1.64          The main problems in the transport sector are aging infrastructure and transport
fleets and inadequate maintenance. Many roads have deteriorated to the point where the present
carriageway is below the surrounding land surface as a result of weathering and traffic. During
the rains, runoff tends to collect along the road, acting as a drain to surrounding areas. Many
cross-drainag. structures have also been c%stroyed. Few rural areas are served by all-weather
roads, and many homesteads are far from the nearest passable road. Many of the rural roads
have received practically no maintenance and have deteriorated so badly that they are little more
than seasonal tracks, impassable during the rainy season. This seriously inhibits the haulage of
crops and fertilizers in rural areas, because truck operators are -4nwilling to incur the high
operating costs on these roads or the risk of breakdown. The use of excessively heavy trucks on
rural roads has contributed to their deterioration. The proposed Project will minimize this
damage by supporting procurement of suitable trucks (para 2. 11).
1.65          Although the overall coverage of the road network is adequate and the main
national and provincial roads are in relatively good condition, there is an overwhelming need for
rehabilitation and maintenance, particularly for rural roads. Rural roads are subject to heavy
traffic during the period of produce evacuation. Most transport haulage operators, both private
and parastatal, use large trucks with payloads in excess Jf 20 tons and high axle loads, and these
vehicles cause rapid and severe damage to rural roads. There is a noticeable absence of smaller
trucks and light vehicles in rural areas because of the long-haul distances for most freight
haulage, the seasonal nature of crop haulage, and import restrictions. Smaller trucks will be



- 18 -
more appropriate for the short-haul operations if the roads were improved and the haulage pattern
changed to shorter distances as envisaged under the new maize marketing system in the proposed
Project.
1.66         The extensive network of unclassified roads and tracks that link rural communities
receive little support from government and are often cut off for extended periods during the rainy
season. Traffic on these access roads is, for the most part, restricted to oxcarts, tractors (with
trailers), and the occasional light vehicle. Relatively small improvements to these roads and an
increase in the availability of oxcarts, tractors, and light vehicles (1 to 2-ton pickups) will
stimulate increased production in these areas by making them more accessible.
G. Bank Group Support
1.67         Bank Group financial assistance to agriculture involved thirteen projects and one
SECAL operation. Main project objectives included increased production of crops, livestock,
fisheries, and forestry and greater incomes for beneficiaries (mainly smallholder producers).
These projects were implemented under a hostile policy environment however, (characterized by
extreme market distortions, price controls, and subsidies), and inadequate rural transport
infrastructure. The resultant disincentives impeded the achievement of the project objectives.
Project implementation was also marred by delayed procurement, slow disbursements, inadequate
staffing, and delayed auditing of project accounts.
H. Lessons Learned
1.68         Zambia's implementation performance in projects and adjustment operations has
been mixed in recent years. Early progress in the existing adjustment program has been
promising, except in reducing the fiscal deficit and in containing subsidies, the bulk of which are
related to maize. Slippage in implementing reform programs, followed by reversals of previous
reforms, have characterized Zambia's adjustment effort in the past, leading to frequent and
prolonged withdrawal rights suspensions. During much of the period between 1986 and 1992,
Zambia's withdrawal rights on IDA credits were under suspension. Withdrawal rights were first
suspended between May 1987 and March 1991 and again between September 1991 and February
1992. During these suspensions, portfolio supervision by IDA was rendered extremely difficult.
Implementation of discrete projects hds also been marred by staffing, counterpart funding,
procurement, disbursement, auditing, and impact problems. In general, the policy environment,
characterized by extreme market distortions and inadequate infrastructure development, has
circumscribed project performance. Under these circumstances, considerable advance actions to
improve the policy environment are necessary and have been agreed upon under the proposed
project. Zambia's compliance with audit covenants has been particularly unsatisfactory and notice
has been served on the government to institute full compliance by the end of May 1992 (Annex
4). If non-complhance continues, sanctions, including suspension of disbursements, will be
applied by IDA. Consequently, the Government has now employed a private firm of auditors
to bring the audit backlog of all Bank Group supported projects up-to-date before the deadline.
In addition, institution-building support to the Auditor-General's Office is planned under a
proposed TA III (FY93). There is adequate private audit capacity in the country through
international audit firms based in Zambia. Project funds will be used to provide independent
audit services for project accounts on the basis of an automatically renewable contract (unless the
auditor's performance is unsatisfactory).



- 19 -
1.69          The MADIA studies concluded that government programs to provide rural
infrastructure (roads, transportation services, storage and the like) have great influence on the
level and pattern of agricultural growth and on private investment in agriculture. Improving rural
infrastructure is an essential condition for agricultural growth in countries, like Zambia, where
smallholders have poor access to roads and transportation services. For example, improved
market incentives through liberalization and price decontrol can easily be thwarted if the physical
barriers and economic costs of transporting goods to and from local markets are too high. Recent
experience in some liberalizing African countries (Tanzania, Ghana, and Malawi) confirms that
the supply response of structural adjustment operations can be effectively stifled by deficiencies
in rural infrastructure. Also, an OED analysis of completed Bank-supported projects to create
agricultural infrastructure found that economic rates of return aven- 'd 17 percent. In this sense,
rural infrastructure is an important element of agriculture's incentive structure. Improvements
in agricultural infrastructure should therefore be sequenced to overlap with policies for improving
agriculture's price incentives (e.g., price decontrol and market liberalization). The proposed
Project will provide a vehicle to meet this requirement.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.01          Rationale. There is general agreement that agriculture has the greatest growth
potential to respond quickly to the economic reforms of the program supported by the Bank and
IMF. If the anticipated accelerated growth is to materialize, increased investment will be
required. This investment will be provided through the proposed financial support to the private
sector. It will be consistent with the IMF/Bank supported stabilization program because it will
rationalize the financing of purchasing maize and fertilizers, both of which have substantially
contributed to fiscal and monetary imbalances in the past. Increased investments in agriculture
will be essential to obtain the anticipated response to the policy reforms. Experience elsewhere
has shown that following liberalization of the financial sector, commercial banks are likely to
reduce lending to agriculture where transaction costs and risk are higher than in other sectors.
Financial institutions in Zambia have little experience in lending to small-scale agribusiness
enterprises engaged in trading commodities. Commodities in transit are generally not suitable
for collateral purposes and these firms are therefore likely to be perceived as high risk for lending
purposes. Hence, if the expected agricultural growth is to materialize, targeted lending, as
proposed under the Project, will be required during a transition period until the financial system
is deepened and market imperfections removed to enable commercial banks develop suitable
financial instruments to provide the necessary financial support to agriculture. Such support will
not distort the financial system and will be consistent with the Bank's guidelines on financial
sector operations.  Indeed, the proposed support will remove the distortions inherent in
government guarantees for credit to purchase maize and fertilizers and commercialize credit
transactions for this purpose by leaving the decision of whether to grant credit or not to the
commercial banks. Finally, the reforms being undertaken by the new government may be
difficult to sustain unless adequately funded by the Bank and other donors under this and similar
projects.
2.02          Objectives. The proposed Project aims at increasing agricultural production in
response to the recently adopted economic reforms in Zambia. It will assist Zambia in
transforming its highly regulted financial sector and inefficient maize marketing, fertilizer
distribution, maize milling, and rural transportation systems into more competitive and efficient
ones. This will be achieved by implementing policies and investrnents intended to: (i) support



- 20 -
and deepen the implementation of financial raforms initiated under the stabilization and structural
adjustment programs; (ii) remove constraints to private sector participation (including
commercially operating cooperatives) in these activities; (iii) commercialize these activities by
drastically reducing government involvement, making them responsive to free market prices and
commercial bank financing, rather than remaining dependent on budgetary subsidies as at present;
(iv) rehabilitate the rural roads and transportation that are essential for increased agricultural
production; (v) rehabilitate, on a pilot basis, underutilized or abandoned large-scale commercial
farms in areas with high potential; and (vi) promote women's access to credit and job
opportunities generated by the Project.
B. Project Summary Description
2.03         The Project, to be implemented over a five-year period, consists of five
components:
*     Private Sector Development (PSD) will support increased private sector
participation in maize marketing, input distribution, maize milling, rural
transportation, and rural road maintenance by financing working and
investment capital to private enterprises (including maize mills),
independent traders or cooperatives, labor-based road contractors, and
underutilized or abandoned farms (51 percent of total cost).
-     iRural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance (RRRM) will support
rehabilitation of 1000 km of rural (feeder) roads in Southern, Lusaka,
and Central provinces and capacity for road maintenance ifi the
provincial roads engineer (PRE) by establishing a rural roads unit (RRU)
in each of the three provinces (30 percent of total cost).
*     Market Development and Monitoring (MDM) will provide support for
collection, analysis, and dissemination of relevant market information;
training seminars and workshops for individual private traders by
existing Marketing and Logistics Information Center (MLIC) of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF); and establishment
and monitoring of standards and grading for animal feed, maize, and
other agricultural products and inputs by the Zambia Bureau of Standards
(ZABS) (2 percent of total cost).
*     Technical Assistance (TA) to support implementation of PSD, RRRM,
MDM, and the policy reform package (see below) will be provided.
During the transition to a free market system, it will be necessary to
have an active program of public support for the development of a
private sector marketing system (17 percent of total cost).
*     The Policy Reform  Package (PRP) will support creation of an
environment conducive to successful achievement of project objectives
by enhancing profitability of project investments and deepening policy
reforms and institutional improvements initiated under the ongoing ERC,
the recently approved PIRC, and the proposed Roads Engineering Credit
(REC) (O percent of total cost).



- 21 -
2.04          Project costs are estimated at about USD68.0 million, including price and physical
contingencies, with a foreign exchange component of about 45 percent.
C. Detailed Project Features
2.05 Private Sector Development. PSD consists of two subcomponents: provision for
incremental w orking capital (short-term credit) and investment capital (medium-term credit). The
Project will provide for both working and investment capital to support private sector
participation in maize marketing, fertilizer distribution, maize milling, rural transportation, and
rural roads maintenance. Funds will be provided to private enterprises (including maize mills,
independent traders, cooperatives or farmers' marketing agencies, and labor-based contractors
and commercial farms). Credit funds will be channeled through BoZ to participating commercial
banks (PCBs) in local currency. This will alleviate the constraints on availability of working
capital that could severely limit the operations of emerging private traders and cooperatives
during the transition period (para 1.51). The Project will fund only incremental amounts
disbursed by PCBs each year, calculated on the basis of with and without project values for maize
and fertilizers (Annex 1, Table 1).
2.06          Incremental Short-term Credit. Loans for working capital will be provided to
enterprises (SSTs and LSTs) that require recurrent overdraft or permanent working capital for
purchasing maize from farmers or aertilizer from importers. It is intended that funds allocated
for this purpose will revolve on an annual basis, providing a stable source of capital each planting
or harvest season. Although these funds will ease tne anticipated shortage of capital for
purchasing the 1992/93 maize crop, only incremental amounts disbursed by PCBs will be funded.
Shortage of working capital among farmers could also be exacerbated by the current drought,
which will decrease farmers' profits and therefore increase their need for loans to purchase inputs
(e.g., fertilizer and seeds) for the next planting season. By channeling this credit through PCBs,
it is expected that the problems associated with government guarantees for maize purchase
overdrafts to cooperatives in the past will be avoided. PCBs will only lend to creditworthy
enterprises and at their own risk and discretion in accordance with eligibility criteria for final
beneficiaries and subprojects specified in Annex 6 and in the subsidiary loan agreements with
PCBs.
2.07          Medium-term Credi'. Credit for investment capital is intended for purchase of
specified capital items used in maize marketing, fertilizer distribution, and rural road
maintenance. Specifically, this credit will be used for purchasing trucks (not exceeding a 12- ton
capacity), tractors, trailers, weighing scales, hammermills, and road construction equipment and
for rehabilitating underutilized or abandoned commercial farms under a pilot scheme limited to
a total of about 20,000 hectares. Funds for these purposes will be made available to individuals
or enterprises involved in maize marketing, fertilizer distribution, rural road maintenance, and
farm rehabilitation directly or through a leasing program administered by a PCB. Subloans for
medium-term credit will not exceed the equivalent of USDI00,000 for each borrower. Medium-
term subloans will be equally subject to the eligibility criteria specified in Annex 6 and in the
subsidiary loan agreements with PCBs.
2.08          Lending Terms and Conditions. Credit funds under this Project will be made
available to beneficiaries through commercial banks that satisfy the participation criteria (specified
in Annex 6). Initially, three potential PCBs have been identified: Barclays Bank of Zambia Ltd.,
Zambia National Commercial Bank Ltd., and Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia Ltd. These
banks have agreed to participate in this lending program in accordance with their normal



- 22 -
commercial practices and at their own risk. The eligibility criteria for final beneficiaries and
subprojects are specified in Annex 6. Although the commercial banks perceive agriculture and
small agribusiness as high-risk and high-cost activities, they realize that these sectors are
strategically important because th..y constitute the linchpin of government strategy to diversify
and accelerate economic growth and agriculture could constitute a significant proportion of their
lending in the future. Additional banks will be permitted to join the program at a later stage if
they satisfy the participation criteria.
2.09         Interest Rates. PCBs have agreed to participate on the following terms and
conditions: (i) interest on subloans will be set at a rate that allows a spread of 4 percent above
the BoZ discount rate (this is the inter-bank rate and is slightly higher than the rates PCBs are
paying for savings accounts, see para 1.34) or a three month deposit interest rate paid to the
general public, whichever is higher; (ii) the subloan period will not exceed one year for working
capital and three years for investment capital; (iii) PCBs may apply their normal evaluation
procedures in appraising such subloans; (iv) PCBs may charge any applicable fees (e.g., front-end
fees); (v) losses or bad debts resulting from this operation will be borne by the PCBs; (vi) funds
under the credit component will cover only 80 percent of the intended subloans; (vii) PCBs and
project beneficiaries will contribute the remaining 20 percent; and (viii) the PCBs will recycle
the funds within the agriculture sector and this will be followed through the monitoring and
evaluation system (para 3.10). To ensure that onlending interest rates remain positive in real
terms at all times, assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government will make
significant progress toward attaining market-determined interest rates by (a) adjusting them
on a quarterly basis to approximate the projected domestic rate of inflation with effect from
the third quarter of 1992, and (b) decontrolling interest rates at all levels by December 31,
1993. Assurances were also obtained that before full decontrol of interest-rates, Government
will review domestic interest rates on a quarterly basis and submit such review to IDA for
comments and promptly implement the said quarterly adjustments, taking into account the
comments of the Association.
2.10         Loan Maturities. According to existing practice, short-term credit will typically
be for a period of not longer than one year, while the duration of medium-term credit will not
exceed three years. Nevertheless, PCBs will be free to determine loan maturity on the basis of
commercial considerations (financial strength of borrowers and the like). Repayment of the funds
made available to PCBs will be made to BoZ over five years after a ten-year grace period at an
interest rate equal to BoZ's discount rate or three month savings deposit rate, whichever is
higher, prevailing at the time of payment. The asymmetry between the grace period to the PCBs
(ten years) and the duration of subloans (three years) is justified by the need to provide term
resources to the PCBs to enable them to increase term transformation and lending to the
agriculture sector. It has also been agreed that BoZ, on behalf of Government, will assume the
foreign exchange risk in repayment of this credit to IDA. During negotiations, draft Subsidiary
Agreements for loans to PCBs, incorporating lending and relending terms and conditions
to be agreed between BoZ and PCBs, were reviewed and agreed. Submission of a signed
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to IDA will be a condition of disbursement for each PCB. It
was also agreed that satisfying eligibility criteria acceptable to the Association by each
commercial bank or financial institution that wants to participate in the credit component
will be a condition of disbursement against loans. IDA supervision missions will be
responsible for appraising and qualifying commercial banks applying for participation.
2.11         To avoid the use of large trucks and minimize road damage during maize and
f^rtilizer haulage (particularly between holding depots in the rural areas and stores along the line-



-23 -
of-rail), only trucks with less than a 12-ton capacity will be purchased or leased under the
project. Within this limitation, transporters will have to choose trucks ranging from 1.5 tons to
12 tons or a tractor-trailer combination within a similar range. The Project will provide funds
for the purchase of about 50 medium-size trucks (7-10 ton), 150 pickups, and 40 tractors with
trailers, including spares. Double-cabin trucks will not be eligible under the Project.
2.12         Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance. The Project will provide funds
for rehabilitation of some 1,000 km of rural (feeder) roads in Central, Lusaka, and Southern
provinces, which will become the major and cheapest sources of maize once market liberalization
and price decontrol have been fully irrmplemented and institutional and financial support to
strengthen the Office of the Provincial Roads Engineer (PRE) in each of the three provinces.
Only Class III gravel roads and selected unclassified earth and gravel roads will be rehabilitated
and maintained under the Project. RRRM will include two subcomponents: an emergency spot
repair program and a labor-intensive, equipment-supported rehabilitation and maintenance
program.
2.13         Emergency Road Repair Program. This program will be executed in the first
two years of the project, involving the repair of approximately 150 km of road on a critical need
basis.  The program  will aim  at improving accessibility and minimizing disruption to
transportation of agricultural products and imports. It will include spot repair of critical road
structures, such as bridges and drainage ditches, and stretches of road that are causing major
bottlenecks in the transportation system. Priority will be given to roads providing access to major
grain and fertilizer storage depots in principal maize producing areas. This program will be
executed by private contractors under the supervision of consultants responsible to PREs for
identifying, ranking by priority and scheduling critically needed road repairs. Consultants funded
through an IDA PPF are currently undertaking road inventories to determine the location, length,
and extent of necessary rehabilitation in works and will prepare detailed program budgets for the
initial two years. During negotiations, it was agreed that the submission of the budget for
the first year will be a condition of disbursement for the emergency road repair program.
2.14         Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program. The labor-intensive, equipment-
supported rehabilitation, to be executed over the last three years of the Project, will involve the
rehabilitation of 850 km of Class III gravel roads and unclassified earth and gravel roads. This
will entail the establishment of small-contractor cadres in each project province who, with
technical and financial support, will undertake minor rehabilitation and maintenance works
normally carried out by force account. Regravelling will not be done (even on existing gravel
roads), except in the few cases where the soil structure makes it absolutely necessary. Generally,
soil conditions in the project area are favorable and rural roads do not need graveling except on
limited stretches. This innovative approach, first developed in Ghana, involves the recruitment
and training of small contractors in labor-based and equipment-supported techniques. Although
most activities are traditionally labor-based, some require the use of mechanical equipment that
will be provided to each participating contractor, initially rent-free (during training and trial
period), and thereafter through a hire purcbase arrangement, whereby installments that will be
met from interim payments made for completed works. Existing wage rates for labor and the low
foreign exchange component make labor-intensive methods the most cost-effective. Labor
availability has not been a critical constraint in other rural maintenance programs in Zambia (e.g.,
the FINNIDA rural roads rehabilitation program in Lusaka Rural District). Labor-based rural
rehabilitation and maintenance methods will vary from rehabilitation and spot graveling to routine
maintenance. Because of the differences in cost umong the methods, several approaches will be
tried out by the RRUs. Those found successful will provide a basis for future designs of rural



- 24 -
roads projects, including the proposed REC.  Because of the institutional uncertainty
surrounding the implementation of the program, disbursement to the entire rural roads
rehabilitation and maintenance program will be conditional to the establishment of the RRU
and the appointmeii. of a roads engineer in each PRE oMce. In addition, the submission
of a satisfactory rural roads policy statement to IDA by the Government will be a condition
of disbursement for the entire roads rehabilitation and maintenance program.
2.15         Labor-based Contractors. A major objective of this Project is to establish a
labor-based contracting capacity in Central, Lusaka, and Southern provinces. By the end of the
Project, about 18 contractors will have be trained in the technology and capable of undertaking
a minimum of 20km per contractor yearly of full Class III road rehabilitation or the equivalent
when contracted for spot improvements or routine maintenance. Additional outputs during the
project period include: (i) up to 60km road rehabilitation completed during on-the-job training;
(ii) around 120km rehabilitated during execution of trial sections; (iii) some 730km rehabilitated
in years two, three, and four; and (iv) annual maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under the
project by trained contractors.
2.16         Market Development and Monitoring. The Project will provide support for the
collection, analysis, and dissemination of information, and training seminars and workshops for
individual private traders to be carried out by the existing Marketing and Logistics Information
Center in MAFF. It will also provide support for establishing and monitoring standards and
grading for animal feed, maize, and other agricultural products and inputs by Zambia Bureau of
Standards (ZABS). There are currently no suitable private sector institutions to shoulder this
responsibility. Initially, the Government must provide the necessary support to ensure the
development of an integrated agricultural market in the country. The Project will provide the
following: staff training in data collection, market analysis dissemination, sampling techniques
and analysis through twining or exchange arrangements with neighboring countries that have fully
liberalized their grain markets; procurement of four-wheel-drive vehicles for collecting
information in remote areas, and computers and software to aid in data collection, analysis, and
storage of information; and funding for short-term consultants to run seminars and workshops for
private traders.
2.17         Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance will be provided to support
implementation of MDM, PSD, and RRRM. Specialists will be provided to assist the MLIC and
the ZABS. Twenty-four months of technical assistance in agricultural marketing, data collection,
and dissemination will be provided to MLIC and twenty-four months of technical assistance in
grading and standards setting for food and food products will be provided to ZABS. A maize
export study to determine Zambia's export opportunities within the region, involving four
man-months, will be carried out by June 30, 1994. A total of ten training seminars for private
enterprises will be conducted by short-term consultants (four person-years) employed by MLIC.
2.18         Technical Assistance for PSD. The Project will support a technical assistance
package providing management expertise to seven commercially viable or independent
cooperatives involved in the marketing of maize. This TA is intended to provide for efficient
management of maize marketing during the transition period (i.e., two years), when the role of
traditional cooperatives is expected to diminish and emergence of private traders will still be
minimal. TA for maize marketing will provide for employment of management consultants to
ensure satisfactory performalice of a management team consisting of a general manager, a
financial manager, and a marketing manager. The job description of each member of the team
will include a detailed scrutiny and examination of the operations of the organization with a view



- 25 -
to rationalizing its marketing operations and putting its organizational and financial structure on
a sound footing. The management team, consisting of a general manager, a financial manager,
and a marketing manager, will then implement the business plan and manage the grain marketing
and input distribution operations of each cooperative for a period of two years with the goal of
establishing its long-run commercial viability in a private sector mark, sting context. These
individuals will be responsible for establishing sound accounting and business practices and
training local personnel to assume these functions upon completion of the management contract.
Agreement was reached on the terms of reference of each TA specialist during negotiations
(Annex 5).
2.19         To qualify for this technical assistance, an organization must meet the following
eligibility criteria: (i) the entity must not be a multinational or a subsidiary of a multinational
company because the purpose of this package is to promote the development of local
organizations; (ii) it must serve a geographic area larger than one district; (iii) it must be
financially solvent with good prospects for financial viability; (iv) it must be a legal corporate
entity licensed to trade in maize and or fertilizer; and (v) its management must be willing to
restructure the operations of the organization to become profitable and competitive.
2.20         TA for maize marketing will be provided to selected cooperatives as an interest
free loan repayable over five years following a two-year grace period. Durinig negotiations
draft Technical Assistance Subsidiary Agreements for maize marketing technical assistance,
incorporating terms and conditions for lending to the selected cooperatives by MoF were
reviewed and agreed. Submission of a signed Technical Assistance Subsidiary Agreement
to IDA will be a condition of disbursement for each participating cooperative.
2.21         Technical Assistance for RRRM. TA to support implementation CCRRRM will
comprise employment of three road engineers to manage RRUs, each for 55 months, one labor-
intensive contractor training specialist (CTS) for a period of 60 months, a mechanic trainer for
a period of 60 months, local roads consultants for a period of six person-months, and
employment of six incremental local staff at technician level for the RRUs.
2.22         The Project will also provide for TA to support training of small private sector
contractors in labor-based, equipment-supported techniques in road rehabilitation and
maintenance. A training unit will be established in Kabwe, Central Province, with a mandate to
train up to eighteen small cntractors together with RRRM personnel. The facilities at the PRE
office in Kabwe are far better than those at the Training Center in Lusaka. This training unit and
its training methods will be designed on the basis of a similar successful scheme in Ghana. The
Government plans to request that ILO, which manages the Ghana scheme, run the labor-intensive
training program. The CTS will head this unit, and will be assisted by one mechanic trainer.
Only technical training of contractors will be done at the unit. Training of small contractors in
business management will be done at existing vocational training institutes in the country, and
the Project will provide for this.
2.23         Private auditors will be employed ori short-term renewable contracts for a total
of 12 months to audit project accounts since the Auditor-General's capacity is considered
inadequate (Annex 4).
2.24         Policy Reform Package. The importance of policy reforms and progress made
are highlighted above (para 1.10). Of the remaining reforms to be undertaken, decontrol of
consumer prices for maize meal and elimination of maize marketing subsidies are necessary to



- 26 -
stimulat,' private sector participation in marketing, processing, storing and increased production
of maize. Despite the current drought situation in the country, Government has indicated its
commitment to decontrol the consumer price for maize meal. There is nevertheless, a need to
protect consumers against the higher prices of imported (yellow) maize.  Accordingly,
Government plans to sell yellow maize to mills at a subsidized price which will be equal to the
average market price of domestically produced maize (white maize). These subsidies will expire
with the depletion of the imported (yellow) maize stocks during the 1993/94 marketing season.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the government will decontrol prices of
domestically produced white maize at all levels of the maize marketing system by October
31, 1992. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that government will liberalize
export marketing of maize, but will require maize exporters and importers to be licensed
in the normal manner by MCTI, starting with the 1993/94 marketing season.
2.25         In order to encourage policies that further facilitate private sector development
through removing distortions, the following goverunent actions were specified during appraisal
as conditions for negotiation and have been implemented: (i) Government eliminated
fertilizer subsidies by decontrolling prices at all levels of the fertilizer distribution system in
March 1992; (ii) Government decontrolled road transport rates for maize and fertilizer by
refusing to negotiate with the Truckers Association of Zambia for the 1992/93 marketing
season in April 1992; and (iii) Government has liberalized domestic marketing of maize and
distribution of fertilizers by licensing private traders, millers, cooperatives, and marketing
associations that wish to trade in the commodities during the 1992/93 marketing season.
Establishment of a leasing arrangement for Government-owned storage facilities satisfactory
to IDA was a condition of Board Presentation and it has been substantially met.
2.26          The Project will support a number of critical policy measures to enahle existing
parastatal organizations and cooperatives to participate in a free and competitive market
environment. These will include (i) granting corporate autonomy with accountability to individual
mills and PCUs; (ii) relinquishing existing mills' affiliation with INDECO and PCUs' dependence
on the government in matters relating to finance, personnel, and corporate policy (including
product pricing policy); (iii) amending the Cooperative Act to reflect the PCUs' corporate
autonomy and accountability; and (iv) privatizing, through full divestiture, INDECO maize mills
to introduce competitive commercial practices in the milling industry. For that purpose, the
actions outlined below were sought. Government's permission for cooperatives to operate
autonomously and without government interference in their operations starting with the
1992/93 season and amendment of the Agricultural Marketing Act to reflect the autonomy
of cooperatives and other marketing agencies will be conditions for disbursement against
subloans to cooperatives. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
will authorize each INDECO) Group mill to set prices for its maize meal independently and
in relation to its own cost structure and market conditions by January 31, 1993.
2.27         All public storage facilities owned by the Government should be utilized optimally
and in support of the emergence of a private sector marketing system. For this purpose, a policy
is needed that enables the private sector to have access to such facilities at a reasonable price.
The Government has vested responsibility onto MLIC to manage the leasing of all public storage
facilities to licensed grain and fertilizer merchants in the country, starting with the 1992/93
marketing season.



- 27 -
D. Project Costs
2.28              Project costs during the five-year development period are estimated at ZK8,500.0
million (USD68.0 million), of which ZK3,833.3 million (USD30.7 million), or 45 percent, will
be foreign excharge costs and ZK4,666.7 million (USD37.3 million) will be local costs.
2.29              Project base costs are calculated using prices obtained during appraisal and
updated to levels expected to prevail at the time of loan negotiation. Government will not levy
duties on goods and taxes on goods and services supplied to government agencies and therefore
no tax element has been included in the project costs. Physical contingencies have been included
at 10 percent for civil works. Price contingency calculations have been based on Bank projected
foreign inflation rate of 3.9 percent annually for the entire project period, and local rates of 60
percent for PYI, 30 percent for PY2, 25 percent for PY3, 20 percent for PY4, and 20 percent
for PY5. Details of project costs are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1-3 and are summarized in
Table 2 below:
Table 2: Project Cost Summary
K'000                                       us'OOO
COttgory           Local           foreign          Totl            Loc1        foreign        TotS       % Foreign    % Totd
echange   be" cta
Pdvate setor      2.656.000      1.315,000         3.871.000      20.448        10.620        30.s68        34.3      67.1
davaloprnent
Rural road         462.600       1.364.376         1.818.875       3.820        10.916        14.636        76.0      27.0
rehb. &
malntrmnce
Mwkettdew.          11.250         199,760           210.000          90         1.690         1.6S0        94.6       2.1
and monitodng
Techicd           397.600         460.000          867.600        3.180         3.680         e.seo        63.6      12.8
eeltanco
Tota be"          2.417.260      3.326.126         6.766.376      27.338        20.706        54.041        49.7     100.0
ccat
Contingendes:
Phydca              46.626         151.600           198.126         273         1.212         1.e65        7e.6       2.0
Pdb               1.202.876        343.626         1.546.500       9.623         2.749        12.272        22.2      22.0
TotS project      4.686.760      S,933,260         e.600.000      27.324        30.666        68.000        46.3      26.0
coe
E. Financingl/
2.30              The project cost is USD68.0 million. Financing of the project cost will be shared
among the Association, co-financiers, and the Government of Zambia as shown in
Table 3 below:
1/ A PPF of USD61,000 was provided for the preparation of this Project, which will be repaid
once the project becomes effective.



- 28 -
Table 3: Financing aPtn
(USD million)
Local             Foreign                 Total
IDA                              9.6                 23.4                 33.0
AfDB                             5.2                  7.3                 12.5
Government                      15.5                   -                  15.5
Commercial banks                 3.5                                       3.5
Beneficiaries                    3.5                                       3 .5
Total                           37.3                 30.7                 68.0
Note: (1) - imean not applicable
2.31         Total foreign assistance will cover 100 percent of foreign costs and 40 percent
of local costs. MDA will finance all technical assistance costs, about 65 percent of the road
rehabilitation costs, and 40 percent of credit lent by participating commercial banks. Government
will finance the local cost component of the road rehabilitation costs, part of the credit cost, and
the recurrent costs representing in all about 41 percent of the total local costs. All of AfDB's
funds will be earmarked to finance 40 percent of the credit to the PCBs. For this purpose, cross-
conditionality with IDA funds is not deemed necessary.



- 29 -
F. Procurement
2.32          Table 4 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USD million)
Procurement Method
Ernimno   D ElmenCt                                LC                   N.B.E.   Total projec
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAU
1.1 Rural Road Repairs                   -        3.0         -        0.1           3.1
(3.0)                              (3.0)
1.2 Rural Road Maintenance               -        5.0         -        5.1          10.1
(5.42)                             (5.0)
2. Goods:
2.1 Equipment                            -          -         -        1.5           1.5
3. CreAdit:
3.1 Vehicles and Farm Rehabilitation     -          -       4.1        7.4          11.5
(4.1)                   (4.1)
3.2 Maize (by mills and traders)         -          -       8.0       10.9          18.9
(8.0)                   (8.0)
3.3 Ferti!lzer (by stockists/distributors)                  4.6        4.0           8.6
(4.6)                   (4.6)
4. Consultancies:
4.1 Technical Assistance/Training                   -       7.1          -           7.1
(7.1)                   (7.1)
S. Miscellaneous:
5.1 Refinancing PPF                                         0.1          -           0.1
(0.1)                   (0.1)
5.2 Reimbursing TA II (ongoing)          -          -        1.2         -           1.2
(1.2)                   (1.2)
5.3 Recurrent Costs                      -          -         -        5.9           5.9
Total                                               8.0      25.1       34.9          68.0
(8.0)    (25.1)                  (33.0)
Note:
(1) Figure in parthsais eprcat IDA financng.
(2) NBF = Not Bak-financed.
(3) IDA financing subtoa do not add to total bas of rounding.
(4) - mean not applicable.



- 30 -
2.33          All civil works will be executed by contract. The . ir.abilitation of rural roads
covering about 1000 km will be carried under LCB not exceeding USD8.0 million. LCB
procedures will iniclude (i) local advertisement, (ii) public bid opening, (iii) clarification of
evaluation criteria as well as post qualification criteria, (iv) award to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, and (v) non-exclusion of foreign bidders who want to participate. During
appraisal, Government tendering procedures were found to be generall, in line with these
procedures. The first LCB document will be submitted to IDA for clearance by the Regional
Procurement Advisor, as required under LCB procedures. Contracts for the civil works are too
small and scattered in remote locations and will be difficult to packaee for ICB. About 12
contracts are expected to be awarded on an annual basis, each costing an average of
USD130,000. These contracts will be scattered in three provinces which onstitute the project
area. Procurement under the credit component will be done by the project beneficiaries (mainly
traders, cooperatives, mills and transporters) in accordance with the normal commercial practices
of the PCBs and by obtaining a minimum of three quotations to ensure that the borrowers will
carry out procurement with due regard for efficiency and economy. Bulking and competitive
procurement will not be feasible because of the small requirements by individual beneficiaries
spaced in time. It will also require establishment of a separate organization to coordinate the
procurement, storage and distribution of fertilizer or maize presently being supplied by domestic
producers or by the different importers and traders in the country. The largest contract under
any subproject for this component will not exceed USDI00,000, which is also the ceiling amount
for an individual beneficiary.
2.34          Consultants will be employed for the Project in accordance with the Bank/IDA
guidelines for the use of consultants published by the Bank in August 1981. A list of consultants
contracts and their objectives and nature are contained in Annex 5 (E).  Consultants for
supervision of road works will be recruited locally, and external specialists for MDM will be
recruited individually. Government has requested TA estimated at a total cost of one million
dollars, required to assist in managing the 1992/93 maize marketing, which starts in May 1992,
on a sole-source basis because of the time limitations and the need to manage the marketing
expeditiously and efficiently under emergency drought conditions. Given the short lead time
before the start of the marketing season, it will not be feasible to apply a competitive bidding
procedure. The consultants proposed by the Government are qualified to perform the requisite
functions on time and fully satisfy the terms of reference. This request is under review by IDA
management. Procurement of maize marketing TA required for the subsequent season will be
by competitive international recruitment.
2.35          All contracts for consultants and contracts for works each estimated at
USD100,000 or more will be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts under credit will be
subject to post review and full documentation will be presented for claiming disbursements.
Contracts for works less than USD100,000 will be subject to post review. IDA will review about
60 percent of procurement under prior review category.
G. Disbursements
2.36          The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998, and the proposed
Closing Date is June 30, 1999. The estimated disbursement proflle takes into account the
historical profile for agricultural projects and the specific TA provided for improving
procurement and accountability in the Project. The estimated schedule of disbursement in Table
5 is based on anticipated faster disbursements resulting from the possibility for front-loaded
disbursements on the crecit component (already requested by the government and BoZ) and the



- 31-
appointment and emp oyment of most consultants before (for maize marketing consultants) or
immediately after Credit Effectiveness.
2.37         The Credit will be disbursed against the following categories and on the basis of
the disbursement schedule given in Table 5:
(i)    65 percent of expenditures for civil works for rehabilitation of rural
roads
(ii)   40 percent of eli'ible loans disbursed by participating commercial banks
(iii)   100 percent of the total expenditures for services of consultants and cost
of training.
2.38         A project account will be opened by BoZ for each participating commercial bank.
The initial deposit into this account for loans will be based on projections prepared by the
participating banks of expected disbursements for the first three months of project
implementation. After that, replenishment will be made at three-month intervals based on actual
disbursements made by the banks in the preceding three months.
2.39         All disbursement requests will be fully documented, except for subloans, local
training costs, and contracts or purchase orders of less than USD100,000. Disbursement against
these items will be made against Statements of Expenditures, with documentation retained by the
implementing agencies and made available for review by supervision missions and independent
auditors. Disbursements against the emergency roads repair program will not exceed
USD3.0 million.
2.40         To ensure that the project funds are readily available when needed and to reduce
the number of disbursement claims, a Special Account in US dollars will be established with an
off-shore commercial bank. Upon effectiveness, USD500,000 will be deposited upon receipt of
a duly authorized withdrawal application by IDA to be used for any eligible expenditures financed
by IDA. This amount is in line with the average 34 month project expenditures projected.
Further deposits to replenish the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documentation.
2.41         To facilitate the flow and adequate provision of counterpart funds from the
government budget, the Government will establish a project account each for RRRM and MDM,
and funds for these components will be deposited quarterly. The establishment of such project
accounts and initial quarterly deposits in each account by Government will be a condition
of disbursement for RRRM and MDM.



- 32 -
Table 5: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank/IDA                                   Cumulative disbursements at end of each
half-year (USD million)
FY 1993
December 31, 1992                                          0.8
June 30, 1993                                              2.0
FY 1994
December 31, 1993                                          5.0
June 30, 1994                                              8.0
FY 1995
December 31, 1994                                         12.0
June 30, 1995                                              16.0
FY 1996
December 31, 1995                                         19.0
June 30, 1996                                             22.0
FY 1997
December 31, 1996                                         25.0
June 30, 1997                                             28.0
FY 1998
December 31, 1997                                         30.0
June 30, 1998                                             31.0
EY 1999
December 31, 1998                                         32.0
June 30, 1999                                             33.0
H. Accournts and Audits
2.42         Project Accounts. Each participating agency will maintain identifiable project
accounts in accordance with sound and consistent accounting principles and methods. These
accounts will be consolidated by the PIU office in the Ministry of Agriculture. Annual financial
statements prepared fo audit will consist of a summarized statement of sources and application
of funds, a summary of the special account and a recapitulation of reimbursements/replenishments
claimed under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and statements of investment credits for
private sector development with participating banks.  Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the guidelines for project accountin_j outlined in Annex 9 will be followed
during project implementation.
2.43         Project Audits. These financiai statements together with the accounting records
and documents maintained to record and support project-related expenditures will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para 2.23). The Government will submit
to IDA audited financial statements and audit reports on each of the three financial statements
together with auditor's long-form audit report or management letter within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year. To facilitate hiring of private independent auditors acceptable to IDA



- 33 -
and the rendering of audited accounts and audit reports within the stipulated time limit, dio Credit
will finance reasonable audit fees. In order, however, to clear expeditiously the audit backlog
of all Bank and IDA supported projects In agriculture, evidence of significant progress In
clearing the audit backlog will be a condition for Credit Effectiveness.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization
3.01         Introduction.  The line agencies that will have direct responsibility for
implementing the project components are: the Roads Department (RDEP), through PREs and
RRUs, for roads; the Bank of Zambia and four commercial banks for the credit component;
ZABS for standards and grading; and the MAFF, through the Marketing Logistics Information
Centre, for market development, monitoring, and training; the Ministry of Finance and
participating independent cooperatives or marketing agencies (PMAs) for marketing technical
assistance; and the Technical Committee on Privatization (TCP) in ZIMCO and INDECO Group
mills for the commercialization and privatization program of t;ie mills.
3.02         Planning, implementation, and progress reporting for each component will be
carried out by the respective line agencies. Coordination of project implementation will be
undertaken by the existing PIU of the Planning Division, Ministry of Agriculture. The unit will
become the liaison and coordination office as well as the center for project reporting, monitoring,
and financial control. The Planning Division will assign, from its existing personnel, one senior
official to coordinate project implementation, one economist/statistician to assist the coordinator,
a clerk, an accountant, and a driver. The Project will provide for that, one vehicle, office
equipment, and furniture.
B. Implementation Responsibility
3.03         Implementation of the Project's major components (PSD and RRRM) will largely
be in the hands of the private sector, w hich has far better implementation capacity than the
government. The implementation of each specific component will be carried out by the relevant
line agencies under the existing organizational setup. Each agency, in agreement with PIU, will
prepare annual plans and budgets and, following their approval, execute and monitor its
component. Preparation of progress reports will also be the responsibility of these agencies, but
consolidation of the reports will be carried out by the PIU. Although the overall impact of the
Project will be dependent on successful implementation of each component, actual implementation
of each component will be independent. Successful implementation of each component will not
depend on the coordinating role of PIU.
3.04         Rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance will be the responsibility of Rural
Roads Units (RRUs) to be established in the PREs office in Lusaka, Central, and Southern
provinces. Initially, emergency road repairs will be executed through private commercial
contractors, supervised by local consultants under the direction of the RRU. Subsequent rural
road rehabilitation will be carried out by labor-intensive contractors to be equipped and trained
under the Project. Routine and periodic road maintenance during the project period will also be
implemented through labor-intensive contractors. All road rehabilitation and maintenance
contracts in this Project will be under the direction of the RRUs.



- 34 -
3.05         Overall responsibility for supervising the credit component will be vested with
BoZ. BoZ will ensure that the foreign exchange required for importing the vehiecles and
equipment is made available through the OGL system and has agreed to monitor this component
as part of its supervision responsibility. The vehicles and equipment will be supplied through
local dealers or trading houses, and commercial banks will provide project beneficiaries with
Kwacha loans to purchase such vehicles and equipment. Kwacha loans will bear local market
interest rates and beneficiaries of such loans will not assume foreign exchange risk; instead, this
risk will be assumed by BoZ. Commercial banks will also provide funds on credit to finance
working capital requirements of entrepreneurs and traders for the purchase of maize and
fertilizer. These banks will operate under existing rules and regulations and no exception will
be made in the terms and conditions of loans for project beneficiaries. PCBs will prepare
quarterly projections of disbursements that will constitvite the basis for the initial deposits and
replenishments of their respective special accounts with BoZ. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to IDA with each partidpating commercial bank will be a condition
of disbursement.
3.06         Implementation of market development and monitoring activities by MLIC and
ZABS will be an integral part of their normal programs; hence no specific arrangements are
necessary.
3.07         The PMAs, independent cooperatives, and maize mills will each be responsible
for implementing their respective subcomponents.  The board of directors, through the
management of each PMA, cooperative or mill will ensure satisfactory preparation and
implementation of a business plan and see to it that commercial policies and practices were
introduced. The signing of a Subsidiary Technical Assistance Agreement acceptable to IDA
with each participating PMA or cooperative will be a condition of disbursement.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).
3.08         The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will monitor the physical and financial
progress as well as the impact on beneficiaries, production, and progress toward achievement of
project objectives (Annex 8). This will be done through the reporting system and studies and
surveys conducted by consultants who will be employed on a renewable contract basis for a total
of 30 months.
3.09          In the case of the RRRM component, monitoring will be focused on: (i) the
criteria adopted for selecting roads for rehabilitation; (ii) number of contractors selected annually
for implementing the program works; (iii) funds allocated by the Government to implement
annual program works; (iv) length of roads rehabilitated annually under the emergency road
repairs and labor-based rehabilitation program; (v) number of labor-based contractors trained each
year; and (vi) output of type of road (gravel/earth) performed by each contractor each year. The
evaluation of the RRRM will assess primarily the impact of the component on agricultural
production and rural employment by gender.
3.10         In the case of PCB loans for private sector development, the M&E svstem will:
(i) evaluate the impact of the loans on private sector participation in marketing and rural
transportation; (ii) assess recovery rates being achieved by the PCBs; (iii) identify constraints
being faced by PCBs in loan delivery and recovery and suggest remedial actions; (iv) identify
constraints being faced by potential beneficiaries in gaining access to loans of the PCBs; and (v)
assess the extent to which PCBs are recycling the credit proceeds within the agricultural sector.



- 35 -
Special emphasis will be given to monitoring the extent to which PCBs will be reaching the target
groups. Each PCB will submit semi annual progress report to the PIU that will include the
number, type, and account of loans granted; the number and amount of loan disbursements made;
loan repayments from borrowers; and the amounts of overdue loans and their aging.
3.11         Experience with monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems in previous projects
has not been satisfactory, largely because of inadeouate capacity within the Government. Because
there is little prospect for development of M&E capacity within Government in the short- and
medium-term, the M&E will rely heavily on (mostly local) consulting firms. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will: (i) prepare and submit
to IDA for approval a M&E plan for the project, not later than March 31, 1993 and
thereafter implement promptly the agreed M&E system; and (ii) employ short-term
consultants to implement the project M&E system on a renewable contract oasis not later
than January 31, 1993.
3.12         Project Supervision. The Project will be supervised regularly by IDA (see
Annex 7) in close consultation with the Government. At the end of each supervision, an Aide
Memoire (AM) will be prepared jointly and discussed at a wrap-up meeting with the Government.
The AM will include an agreed action plan for corrective actions to be undertaken by the
Government. Following supervision, IDA will inform the Government of its assessment of
project performance and its performance rating.
3.13         Mid-term Review. A mid-term review will be undertaken by IDA and the
Government at the end of the third year of project implementation. The review will cover all
project aspects, as well as develop guidelines for the preparation of a follow-up project. To
prepare for the review, the PIU, assisted by short-term consultants, will write a detailed progress
report covering the entire period from project commencement, and include a thorough analysis
of implementation issues. This review will highlight the progress made in achieving the key
project performance indicators contained in Annex 8.
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benerits
4.01         Introduction. The achievement of project objectives could facilitate agriculture's
supply response to the improved policy enviromment resulting from the country's adjustment
program and the policy and institutional reforms under the project. The Project will enable both
farmers and rural enterprises to respond to the improved incentive structure by increasing
agricultural production. The principal benefits of the Project will be increased agricultural
production, reduced transport costs and transport-related crop and input losses, efficiency gains
stemming from an improved policy environment, changes in production and marketing patterns,
and rehabilitation of rural transport infrastructure. Increased production, savings, and efficiency
together with new employment opportunities, wi" significantly reduce food costs, improve
household food security, and increase incomes for farmers and rural enterprises.
4.02         It is expected that the improved pricing policy for maize and fertilizer will result
in a significant rationalization of the maize marketing and fertilizer distribution system. It is
expected that maize production will increase along the line-of-rail and will also be concentrated
closer to major consumption centers, reducing average transport cost by an estimated 47 percent.
This represents significant savings, because 63 percent of naize consamption occurs in Lusaka



- 36 -
and the Copperbelt cities. Production in areas away from the line-of-rail is expected to adjust
to meet local demand, and possibly supply export markets in neighboring countries. Although
this may necessitate a reduction iil maize production in these areas, considerable potential exists
for crop diversification, thus maintaining or improving current farm incomes. With the removal
of transport subsidies, there is also expected to be an increase in the local milling of maize using
hammermills, thereby reducing transport and milling costs and food costs for consumers in non-
line-of-rail provinces. Localizing these activities and exporting to neighboring countries will also
provide a source of income for local businesses.
4.03          It is estimated that, when compared with the previous pricing system with all
marketing costs handed on to the consumer, the proposed pricing policy will reduce roller meal
prices by 14 percent in line-of-rail provinces and 37 percent in non-line-of-rail provinces. These
new prices will represent a significant saving to consumers facing a non-subsidized maize market
(Annex 1, Table 2).
4.04          During the period 1970-89, maize-related subsidies accounted for about 10
percent of total agricultural expenditures and nearly 60 percent of budget deficits. In 1990, the
total cost of subsidies for maize and fertilizer was ZK3821 million. By removing these subsidies,
the Government could make significant strides to reduce the budget deficit as proposed by the
IMF/Bank-supported stabilization program, and reallocate these resources to productive uses
(e.g., agricultural services and rural roads rehabilitation).
4.05          Rehabilitation of existing roads and provision of improved maintenance will lower
transportation costs by reducing costs of vehicle operation and maintenance; provide year-round
access to production and market areas, thus reducing the present maize wastage and avoiding
delays in the supply of inputs; and stimulate competition among farmers and merchants. The
reduced vehicle operation and maintenance cost will also save on foreign exchange expenditures.
4.06          In addition, the private sector development activities will stimulate other economic
activities, leading to the creation of employment, increased availability of goods and services, and
improved living standards. Additional marketing information along with the availability of
transport will raise the efficiency of markets and thereby improve household food security, and
improvements in grading and standards of commodities will stimulate quality improvement and
reduce wastage.
4.07          Financial Analysis. Financial analysis using representative models has been
prepared for average investments to determine their financial viability and to assess the
borrowers' ability to repay their loans (Annex 2, Tables 1-3). The investments have been
selected on the basis of their significance in the credit program. The investments selected include
trucks, tractor-trailers, and pickups.
4.08          The models have been based on current data, including February 1992 prices and
data from technical feasibility studies conducted recently by PCBs. Financial rates of return
(FRR) on the investments have been calculated on the basis of these models and are estimated at
between 20 and 40 percent. In all instances, the models show that borrowers will be able to meet
debt-servicing obligations. The estimated FRRs of the investments are summarized in
Table 6 below.



- 37 -
Table 6: Estimated Financial Rates of Return
of Selected Investments
Subproject            FRR%"'    FRR%o
Pickup Truck                      21          37
10-ton truck                      22          36
Tractor with 10 ton trailer       22          40
Note: FRRII/ is before financing.
FRR_/ is after financing.
4.09          The Project will assist the private sector, particularly in responding to the
improved incentive structure in marketing, input distribution, agroprocessing, and rural
transportation, and it will help farmers utilize existing and new technologies offered by the
research and extension services. This will result in increased productivity and production in
agriculture.
4.10          Economic Analysis. Economic rate of return (ERR) for the entire Project has
been calculated on the basis of the RRRM component and medium-term investments; these
account for about 50 percent of the project cost. The benefits associated with short-term credit
for purchasing of maize and fertilizers by traders are considered to be substantial, but their
quantification will have required strong assumptions and was not attempted.
4.11          The overall economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at 24 percent
(Annex 2, Table 5). Economic rates of return are 22 percent for RRRM and 32 percent for
medium-term investments. Main assumptions underlying the economic analysis are presented
below:
*      The economic benefits for the RRRM component have been estimated on
the basis of incremental (i) benefits accruing to farmers and (ii) benefits
accruing to transporters.
(i)    Benefits accruing to farmers consist of a 15 percent increase in
agricultural production.
(ii)    Benefits accruing to transporters will derive from improved road
conditions and will include reductions in vehicle operating costs,
which are estimated at 2.5 percent of existing tariff rates.
(iii)   Following maize market liberalization and price decontrol,
average maize haulage will decline from 600 ton/km to 300
ton/km.
*      The economic prices for maize and other produce were derived from the
latest World Bank Commodity Price Projections. It has been assumed



- 38 -
that Zambia will remain a marginal importer of maize, wheat, and
oilseeds (except groundnuts) for the next two years and become a
marginal exporter thereafter; accordingly import and export parity prices,
after adjusting for port handling and international and local land
transport, were used in the analysis.
*     Economic costs and benefits have been derived from detailed projected
cash flows of the medium-term investments and RRRM components
(Annex 2, Tables 1-3, and Annex 2, Table 4), excluding taxes and price
contingencies.
*     All local costs have been converted to border values by using a standard
conversion factor of 0.8.
4.12         Sensitivity Analysis. Cost overrun and delays in accrued incremental benefits
as well as inability to sustain maintenance afier road rehabilitation could occur notwithstanding
built-in safeguards in the project design. To estimate the effects these will have on the Project,
possible changes in costs and benefits were introduced in the analysis and sensitivity tests
performed. The results are summarized in Table 7 below:
Table 7: Sensitivity Analysis for Economic Rates of Return
(percent)
Test variation                      Overall project    RRRM        Medium-term
ERR           ERR        investment ERR
Base                                        24           22                32
Benefits down 10%                           19           20                 19
Benefits down 15%                           17           18                 12
Costs up 10%                                20           20                20
RRRM benefits lag 2 years                   18           16
Benefits down 10%, up 10%                   16           18                 8
Without VOC savingsl"                       19           15                32
1/ VOC - vehicle oporating cosb.
4.13         As can be seen, ERRs for the Project as a whole, medium-term investments, and
RRRM are moderately sensitive to increases in costs and reductions in benefits. Economic rate
of return of medium-term investments will be extremely sensitive to simultaneous reduction in
benefits and costs, which could happen if, for example, agricultural production declines and roads
are not adequately maintained. An increase in costs of 37 percent or a decline in benefits of 25
percent will be required to reduce the Project's rate of return to 12 percent (the real cost of
capital in Zambia). Even this is unlikely to happen because of the conservative estimates of crop
production increases used in the analysis and the high physical contingency allowance built into
the project costs. The Project is similarly less sensitive to delays in realizing benefits. If major
benefits, particularly those dependent on the private sector development of rural roads and
transportation, are delayed for two years, the economic rate of return drops to about 16 percent,
which is still an acceptable rate of return. If the roads were not maintained following their



- 39 -
rehabilitation (i.e., savings on vehicle operating costs were zero), the economic rate of return for
the entire Project will decline to 19 percent, while that of RRRM will fall to only 15 percent. The
Project will thus still be justified even in the absence of sustainable maintenance of the
rehabilitated roads.
B. Environmental Impact
4.14         The only component that could have a direct effect on the environment is the
rural roads component, but the road rehabilitation works are not expected to have any adverse
environmental effect.  On the contrary, favorable impact will result from improved and
engineered road drainage systems. No new construction or major realignment is envisaged, so
activities will be confined to existing rights-of-way. All tender documents will provide for
reinstatement and seeding of burrow pits. This will reduce the risk of residual pools along roads
with resultant health hazards. Physical damage to the environment by heavy equipment and the
spillage of fuel and lubricants associated with capital-intensive methods will be negligible.
C. Gender Focus
4.15         Women in Zambia's agriculture sector play vital roles as farmers, managers,
decisionmakers, and farm laborers. Women e;onstitute the majority of traders in the food
distribution system in the country and they are likely to be the major beneficiaries of the Project.
One important social advantage associated with labor-intensivv methods of road maintenance is
the increased opportunity for women to participate in supplying labor to such programs.
Experience in the NORAD-funded program in Northern Province and FINNIDA-funded program
in Lusaka Rural District has shown high levels of participation by women who have proved to
be the most reliable and capable workers. Increased non-farm incomes earned by women are
likely to result in improved household food security because they are also the major food
providers for their families.
D. Risks
4.16         The Project's main risk lies in the possible gap between the Government's
recognized strong commitments to reforms and its ability to implement requisite reforms to
improve the incentive structure for farmers and private enterprises. Without this ability, the
proposed Project's investments will be less productive. This risk has been minimized by
improving the implementation capacity of the government through a strong TA component. In
addition, the bulk of the Project (PSD and RRRM) will be implemented largely by the private
sector, where implementation capacity is far better than in the government sector (para 3.03).



- 40 -
V. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01          Condition of Effectiveness:
(i)    evidence of significant progress to clear the audit backlog of all Bank and
IDA supported projects in Zambian agriculture (para 2.43).
5.02         The following are conditions of disbursement:
(i)    satisfying eligibility criteria specified in Annex 6 by each commercial
bank or financial institution that wants to participate in the credit
component (para 2.10).
(ii)   the submission of a detailed program budget for the first year, for the
emergency roads repair program (para 2.13).
(iii)   establishment of RRU and appointment of a roads engineer in each PRE
office for the entire road rehabilitation and maintenance program (2.14)
(iv)   submission of a satisfactory rural roads policy statement acceptable to
IDA by the Government for the entire roads rehabilitation and
maintenance program (para 2.14).
(v)    Government's permission for cooperatives to operate autonomously
without interference in their operations starting from the 1992/93
marketing season and amendments to the Agricultural Marketing Act to
reflect the autonomy of cooperatives and other marketing agencies (para
2.26).
(vi)   establishment of project accounts for RRRM and MDM and the initial
quarterly deposit in each account by the Government (para 2.41).
(vii)  signing of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement by each participating
commercial bank (para 3.05)
(viii)  signing of a satisfactory subsidiary technical assistance agreement by
each participating marketing association or cooperative (para 3.07)
5.03          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government:
(i)    will make significant progress toward attaining market-determined
interest rates by (a) adjusting them on a quarterly basis to approximate
the projected domestic rate of inflation for the quarter with effect from
the third quarter of 1992, (b) decontrolling interest rates at all levels by
December 31, 1993 (para 2.09).
(ii)    will review domestic interest rates on a quarterly basis and submit such
review to IDA for comments and implement the said quarterly
adjustment of interest rates taking into account the Assocat.ion's
comments (para 2.09).



-41 -
(iii)   will carry out a maize export study to determine Zambia's export
opportunities within the region by June 30, 1994 (para 2.17)
(iv)   will liberalize export marketing of maize, but will require maize
exporters and importers to be licensed in the normal manner by MCTI,
starting with the 1993/94 marketing season (para 2.24)
(v)    will decontrol prices of domestically produced white maize at all levels
of the maize marketing system by October 31, 1992 (para 2.24)
(vi)   will authorize each INDECO group mill to set prices for its maize meal
independently and in relation to its own cost structure and market
conditions not later than January 31, 1993 (para 2.26)
(vii)  will not spend against the emergency roads repair program more than
USD3.0 million (para 2.39)
(viii)  will employ short-term consultants to implement the project monitor'ng
and evaluation system on a renewable contract basis not later than
January 31, 1993 (para 3.11)
(ix)   will prepare and submit to IDA for approval a M&E plan for the Project
not later than March 31, 1993 and will implement promptly the agreed
M&E system (para 3.11).
3.04         Subject to these conditions and assurances, the proposed Project is suitable for
IDA Credit of SDR 24.1 million (USD33.0 million equivalent) to the Government of Zambia on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



-42 -
Annex I
Table 1
MAIZE AND FERTILIZER MARKETIIVG AND MAIZE PRICING
Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Projected Development of Private Sector in Maize and Pertilizer Subsectors
1993/94        1994/95        1995/96       1996/97         1997/98          Total
A) Maize: SSTa
Number of traders                  50.0           100.0        IS0.0           2S0.0           350.0
Av. annual tumover (bags)         200.0           300.0        400.0           S00.0           750.0
Total annual tumover (000 bags)     10.0           30.0          60.0           125.0          262.S
Unit value (S/bag)                  9.0            10.0          10.0           12.0            12.0
Tumover value (S'000)              90.0           300.0         600.0         1,500.0         3,1S0.0
W/O turnover value (S'000)          0.0             0,0           0.0            0.0             0.0
Incremental TV ($'000)             90.0           300.0         600.0         1,500.0        3,150.0         5,640.0
B) Maize: LSTs
Number of traders                  20.0            17.0          19.0           18.0            17.0
Av. annual tumover (000 bags)     500.0           700.0         800.0         1,000.0         1,200.0
Total annual tumover (000 bags)  10,000.0       11,700.0     15,000.0        18,000.0        20,000.0
Unit value (S/bag)                  9.0            10.0          10.0           12.0            12.0
Tumover value ($'000)           90,000.0       117,000.0    150,000.0       216,000.0       240,000.0
W/O tumover value (S'000)       88,500.0       115,000.0    147,000.0       212,300.0       236,000.0
Incremental TV (S'000)           1,500.0         2,000.0      3,000.0         3,700.0        4,000.0         14,200.0
Cl Fertilizer: All traders
Number of Traders                  50.0            80.0         120.0           130.0          2S0.0
Tons/trader (000 tons)              3.2             2.1           1.8             1.9            1.7
Volume of trade (000 tons)         160.0          165.0         210.0          252.0           260.0
Unit value (S/ton)                210.0           220.0         220.0          230.0           230.0
Value of trade (S'000)          33,600.0        36,300.0     46,200.0        57,960.0        59,800.0
W/O value of trade (S'000)      32,400.0        34,800.0     43,700.0        54,710.0        59,800.0
Incremental value ($'000)        1,200.0         1,500.0    - 2,S00.0         3,250.0          840.0         9,290.0
Total incremental value          2,790.0         3,800.0      6,100.0         8,450.0         7,990.0        29,130.0



- 43 -                                        Annex  I
Table 2
MAIZE AND FERTILIZER MARKETING AND MAIZE PRICING
Maize Price Structure in 1992 '
(In 1992 Kwacha per 90 kg Bag)
Existing
policy
1992/93                  1992
Line-of-      Non-Line-of-
Rail            Rail
Producer price (1992/93 marketing season)    1,215.0             1,215.0              750.0
Marketing costs (MC)
Intraprovincial                                   400.0                             400.0
Interprovincial                                   564.0          564.0
Total MC                                        2,179.0        1,779.0            1,150.0
Into mill price                                    2,179.0       1,779.0            1,150.0
Raw material                                         603.0         498.0              322.0
Milling and distributing costs                       164.0         164.0               164.0
Consumer price                                       767.0         662.0              486.0
Implied savings                                        0.0          105.0             281.0
%  Savirgs                                             0.0           14.0               37.0
Note: The tuble is based on following assumptions: (i) regional price differentials at all levels of the maketing system;
(ii) no intraprovincial trade for non-line-of-rail provinces; (iii) maize supply for line-of-rail areas will be from Southem,
Centrl and Lusaka Provinces; (iv) no subsidies to producers or consumers; and (v) c.i.f. pricing policy.



.44-
Annex 2
Table 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
ProJected Cash Flow for 10 ton Truck
(in constant 1992 USD'000)
Year                                    1          2          3           4         5         6
Revenue                             21.6       36.0        36.0       36.0      36.0      36.0
Ir.vestment                         50.0
Operating costs
Variable                          11.2       11.2        11.2       11.2      11.2      11.2
Fixed                              8.2        8.2         8.2        8.2       8.2       8.2
Cash flow before financing         (47.8)       16.6       16.6        16.6      16.6      16.6
Financing
Borrowers contribution             5.0
Loan                             45.0
Financing charges
Interest at 6%                     2.7        1.8         0.9
Loan repayment                    15.0       15.0        15.0
Net cash flow after financing    (15.5)         (0.2)       0.7        16.6      16.6      16.6
(1) FRR before financing          22.4%
(2) FRR after financing           36.0%
X: Assumptions: (1) Revenuo is based on 200 wo*ing days per year at 165 Ian a day at 25 km/hr speed with 50%
load factor at USD0.22 per ton/km, which is the present shont-haul tariff. (2) Revenue for the first year was assumed
at 60% of aU other years. (3) Comnmercial banks wiU pmvide USD45,000 of the cost of the truck at 6% interest a year,
repayable over three years with no allowance for a gmce period which is customary at present in Zambia. (4) The trucks'
useful life was assumed to be six years considering the status of the roads in Zambia. It was also assumed that tho
residual value will be zer. (5) It is assumed that the calculated deficit in year I will be covered through the assistance
fiom extended family/friends; where this is unavailable, they PCB may adjust lending terms.



- 45 -
Annex 2
Table 2
rINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Project
Projected Cash Flow
Tractor with 10-ton Trailer
(in constant 1992 USD'000)
Year                                 1          2          3           4          5
Revenue
Transport                         7.9        13.2       13.2        13.1       13.2        13.2
Farming operations               11.9        19.8       19.8        19.8       19.8        19.8
Investment                       52.0
Operating cost
Fixed                           5.4        5.4         5.4        5.4         5.4        5.4
Variable                       10.9       10.9       10.9        10.9       10.9        10.9
Cash flow before financing   (48.5)          16.7       16.7        16.7       16.7        16.7
Financing
Borrowers contribution          7.0
Loan                          45.0
Financing charges
Interest at 6%                 2.7         1.8        0.9
Loan repayment                 15.0       15.0       15.0
Net cash flow                   (14.2)       (0.1)       0.8       16.7        16.7        16.7
(1) FRR before financing    21.5%
(2) FRR after financing        39.5%
Note: Assumptions: (1) This combination is used 40% of the time for maize haulage thus giving famdng operations 60%
of its usage. (2) Haulage is based on 4 months, 100 days with 2 tips per 30 In each trip giving a total of 60,000 tontm
per year at 22 cents per ton/nk. (3)Commenrcial banks will provide USD45,000 of the total cost of the combination at
6% interest anuwally repayable over throe years with no allowvanc for a grace period, which is customay at present in
Zambia. (4) Revenue for the first year was assumed at 60% of alr other years. (5) The useful lfe of this combination was
assumed to be six years, with no residual value. (6) It is assumed that the calculated deficit in year I will be covered
through the assistance from extended familytfriends; where this is unavailable, they PCB may adjust lending tenms.



- 46 -                                  AAnnex   2
Table 3
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Project
Projected Cash Flow
1.5 ton Truck
(in constant 1992 USD'000)
Year                                   1        2         3         4         5          6
Freight transport                    4.0      6.6       6.6       6.6       6.6        6.6
Other                                6.0     11.8      11.8      11.8      11.8       11.8
Investment cost                     18.0
Operating costs
Fixed                             1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8        1.8
Variable                          9.9       9.9       9.9      9.9       9.9         9.9
Cash flow before financing         (19.7)     6.7       6.7       6.7       6.7        6.7
Financing
Borrowers contribution            3.0
Loan                             15.0
Financing charges
Interest                          0.9       0.6       0.3
Loan repayment                    5.0       5.0       5.0
Net cash flow after financing       (7.6)      1.1      1.4       6.7       6.7        6.7
(1) FRR before financing         21.0%
(2) FRR after financing          36.7%
Note: Assumptions: (1) Hauling will be on 200 days per year at 300 kin per day at 50% loading factor and 22 cents
per ton/km = 6,600. (2) First year revenue at 60%. (3) All other assumptions remmain the same (Tables I and 2). (4) It
is assumed that the calculted deficit in year I will be covered through the assistance from extended family/friends; where
this is unavailable, they PCB may adjust lending terms.



-47                                  Annex  2
Table 4a
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Economic Analysis - Medium Term Credit Investment Costs and Benefits
Year                  1            2             3           4         5       6
(USD ,000)
A. INCREMENTAL COSTS
7,439.6     2,200.4       2,126.0      2,051.6  2051.6  2051.6
Vehicles
B. INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
2,440.0     4,240.0       4,240.0      4,240.0    4240    4240
Vehicles
C. NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Net  -5,000.0      2,039.6       2,114.0     2,188.4   2188.4  2188.4
Benefits
Economic Rates of Return on Incremental Investmrt
Medium Team Credit Investments    31.76%



Annex 2, Table 4b. Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Economic Analysis - Rural Roads Program Investment Costs awd Benefits
year            1      2       3      4      5      6       7      8      9     10      11     12     13     14     15     16      17     18     19     20     21     22
(USD ,000)
A. INCREMENTAL COSTS
Total Costs        3888   2085   2165   2085    280       28     28     28     28    755    755    755    280    280    280    280    755    755    755    280    280  -4260
8. INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
1. Reduced VOC
Maize Transport        0     60    120    180    180    180    190    190    200    200    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210          0
Other Transport        0    100    200    350    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550    550          0
2. Increased Production
Increased Maize       0    300    600    880   1170   1470   1760   1840   2020   2160   2160   2160   2160   2160   ?' 3  2160   2160   2160   2160   2160   2160            0
Increased Other       0     40      80    120    160    200    240    280    320    352    352    352    352    352    3i2    352    352    352    352    352    352          0
Total Benefits        0    500   1000   1530   2060   2400   2740   2860   3090   3262   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272           0
C. NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
cO  Net Benefits       *i888  -1585  -1165   -555   1780   2372   2712   2832   3062   2507   2517   2517   2992   2992   2992   2992   2517   2517   2517   2992   2992   4260
Economic Rates of Return on Incremental Investments
Rural Roads Program Investment                 21.72X



Amex 2, Table 5.  Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Economic Analysis - Project Costs and Benefits
year            1      2       3      4      5      6       7      8      9     10     11      12     13     14     15      16     17     18     19     20     21     22
(USD ,000)
A. INCREMENTAL COSTS
Vehicles         7439.6 2200.4  2126 2051.6 2051.6 2051.6         0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0
Road Rehab.        3888   2085   2165   2085    280       28     28     28     28    755    755    755    280    280    280    280    755    755    755    280    280 -4260
TotaL Cost      11327.6 4285.4  4291 4136.6 2331.6 2079.6    28         28     28    755    755    755    280    280    280    280    755    755    755    280    280  -4260
B. INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Vehicles           2440   4240   4240   4240   4240   4240        0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0
Road Rehab.           0    500   1000   1530   2060   2400   2740   2860   3090   3262   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272           0
TotaL Benefits     2440   4740   5240   5770   6300   6640   2740   2860   3090   3262   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272   3272           0
C. NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Net Benefits    -8887.6  454.6   949 1633.4 3968.4 4560.4  2712   2832   3062   2507   2517   2517   2992   2992   2992   2992   2517   2517   2517   2992   2992   4260
0\
Economic Rates of Return on Incremental Irwestments
Mediun Term Credit Investments                                31.76X
Rural Roads Program Investments                               21.72X
Rural Roads and Medium Term Credit Investments                24.02X



- 50 -                                                              Annex 3
Table 1
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Zambia: Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Detailed Costs - Rehabilitation of Rural Roads
(USD'00O)
1                      2                       3                      4                     5                   TOTAL
L           F           L           F          L           F          L          F           L         F           L           F
A. Road Repair                   450         1050        450        1050                                                                            900          2100
Supervision                               150                    150                                                                                          300
B. Gmvel Roads (Clasn 11)       2320        5415                                                                                                   2320          5415
C. Vehilek                                    416                                                                                                                 416
D. Road Mainteance                                        40          93          40         93         40          93         40        93          166          372
B. TA & Taming                               336                     336                    336                    336                  336                      1680
Expeis (t4 - 240 m/rn
consultants (6 m/m)                        100                                                                                                                 100
LOWastaff(#6 - 360m/mr)        18                       18                     18                    18                     18                    90
Felowship (4 m/m)                           32                                                                                                                  32
Travel                                      30                     30                      30                    30                   30                       150
Supportservices                30           70         30          70          30          70        30          70         30        70          150          350
Sub-total                       2818         7599        538        1729          88         529        88         529         88       529        3620         10915
Physicsl Contingency             282          760         54         173           9          53         9          53          9        53         363          1092
Pdre Contingency                1860          326        734         152         175          71       229          96        277       123        3275           768
TOWal                           4960         8685       1326        2054         272        653        326         678        374       705        7258         12775



-51-                                                               A
'table 2
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Zambia: Agzricultural and Marketingi-and- Processing Infrastructure Project
Detailed - Market Development and Monitoring
(USD'OOO)
1                    2                    3                   4                    5                  Told
L          F         L          F         L         P         L          F         L         F        L           p
Iab. equipment                 825                                                                                                   an
Vehicles                       125                                                                                                    12.
immiatieoo          so                                                                                                     so
TaMi                           100                                                                                                    too
Coupte (v)                      40                                                                                                    40
Ma lket  ep.                   120                  120                                                                              240
Omdiygaip.                     120                  120                                                                              240
Coip. inking        40                                                                                                     40
ubtoel             90        1330                 240                                                                     90        Is"S
Fhyl                10         120                                                                                          to        120
Pdo                 60          61                  19                                                                     60         so
Told                160       1511                 259                                                                     160       Am



-52-                                                                 Annex 3
Table 3
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Zambia: Agricultural and Processing Infrastructure Project
Detailed - Technical Assistance
(USD'00)
1                       2                       3                      4                       5                     TotaI
L             F            L          F         L            F          L            F         L            P           L            F
M L  _m   (S)       1250                        1250                                                                                         2500
Engietm (4)                         480                    480                     480                     480                   480                     2400
Boooomklw (2)                       240                    240                     240                     240                   240                      1200
AudItIg              100                         100                  100                     100                    100                      500
Mid.In tevaw                                                           30                                                                      30
Stdy ale                             40                                                                                                                     40
Ex.
Rrd roe&                             40                                                                                                                    40
TYinmg                30                          30                   30                      30                     30                      150
M&E                   60                          60                   60                      60                     60                      300
Sub-tol             1440            800         1440       720        220          720        190          720       190         720         3480        3680
ryical                60            3.9          124        8.0       180         12.2        236         16.5       286         21.1         886         61.7
C mUtqn=7
Priccontiade:y       828             31         1711        58        288           88        307          119       372          152        3506         448
Toal                2328          1665.9        3275       786        688        820.2        733        855.5       848        893.1        7872       4189.7



- 53 -                            Anne4&A
STATUS OF AGRICULTURAL PROJECT AUDITS IN ZAMBIA
1.           Zambia's record in complying with legal covenants requiring the annual
submission of audit reports (including project accounts, special accounts, statements of
expenditures, and in some cases, company accounts) has been unsatisfactory. A list of current
agricultural project accounts and their status as of November 1991 are presented in Annex 4,
Table 1, the audit reports at this time were overdue for periods ranging from one month to forty
months.
2.           On December 2, 1991, the Government was informed that the Association will
suspend use of the SOE procedure if all SOE accounts more than thirty days overdue were not
in compliance with audit requirements by April 30, 1992. For accounts other than SOEs with
audits more than nine months overdue, the Association will consider suspending disbursements
if audits for these accounts were not completed by March 1, 1992. The Association will also not
consider postponement of closing dates for existing projects and will not proceed with
negotiations or Board presentation of new operations if audit reports were more than three months
overdue.
3.           The Government did not respond to these requests immediately because of heavy
commitments in the Government Auditor Generals office and lack of resources to employ private
auditors. Since the lifting of suspensions in February 1992, the Government has employed a
private accounting firm, Deloitte and Touche, to carry out the audit of all Bank-assisted
operations and accounts. On the basis of these developments, the application of sanctions have
been postponed. These audits will place the government in full compliance with Association audit
requirements when complete.



- 54-                                   Annex  4
Table   1
Zambia Audkt Report. Agriculture Projects, November 1991.
Projec                          CrediM   Typ of audit report        Date due         Months
No.                                                 overdue
Porestay U                      1437     Fincbial Statements        09/30/1991           1
Revolving Fund            09/30/1988          37
Revolving Fund            09/30/1989          25
Revolving Fund            09/30/1990          13
Revolving Fund            09/30/1991           1
Fishries                        1529     Project Accounts           06/30/1988         40
rtojec Accounts           06/30/1989          28
Project Accounts          06/30/1990          16
Project Accounts          06/30/1991           4
S_acms of Expenditure    06/30/1988           40
Slatement of Expenditure    06/30/1989        28
Satements of Expenditure    06/30/1990        16
Statements of Expenditure    06/30/1991        4
Agricultual Research & Exlension   1746  Project Accounts           06/30/1990          16
Project Accounts          06/30/1991           4
Revolving Fund            06/30/1990          16
Revolving Fund            06/30/1991           4
Staments of Expenditure    06/30/1990         16
S-tatmnts of Expenditure    06/30/1991         4



- 55 -
Annex    5
Page 1 of 9
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONNSJLTANTS
A. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT (PSD)
Marketing Management Technical Assistance (MMTA)
1.           Objectives. Marketing Management Technical Assistance (MMTA) is intended
to provide management assistance to private sector maize marketing organizations during the
transition from a government-controlled to a private sector marketing system. A team of
consultants consisting of a general manager, a financial manager, and a marketing manager will
be employed for each selected cooperative society or marketing association. All members of the
team will be hired for a period of two years, conditional upon satisfactory performance, and will
report to the board of directors of their respective PMA. The goal of each management team
should be to develop and implement a business plan and manage the grain marketing and input
distribution operations of a PMA for a period of two years with the goal of establishing its long-
run commercial viability in a private sector context.
2.            Management Team Tasks:
-  Conduct a detailed examination of the operations of the selected cooperative
society or marketing association with a view to rationalizing its marketing
operations and putting its organizational and financial structure on a sound
footing. The team will present a comprehensive business plan covering the first
two years of operation to their board of directors within tiree months of the
contracted starting date. This business plan will address the following issues.
- organizational structure
 detailed financial plans and controls
* marketing logistics
* training of local staff
-  One year from  the contracted starting date, the team  will present a
comprehensive business plan for the next five years of operation to the board of
directors. This business plan will put in place systems to ensure continued
viability of the society or association after expiration of the TA contract. The
business plan will address the following issues.
* long-term organizational structure
* detailed financial plans and controls for long term viability of the
society or association
*  detailed marketing and sales plans fo the five-year period
* detailed schedule for local staff hiring, training, and assumption
of duties.



- 56 -
Page 2 of 9
3.            Individual Tasks: Members of the management team will have the following
specific tasks:
General Manager. In order to achieve satisfactory performance, the general
manager will complete the following tasks:
o coordinate and ensure on-time delivery of business plans specified above;
* upgrade and strengthen the commercial performance of the cooperative in its
marketing and input distribution activities
* organize the procurement of maize in the most cost-effective manner, by
eliminating intermediary costs and increasing efficiency of collection;
* organize the procurement of agricultural inputs
* oversee operation and maintenance of storage facilities, and guide technical staff
accordingly
* take overall responsibility for transportation arrangements, ensuring efficient and
timely delivery of inputs to farmers, and maize to mills;
* take responsibiBity for negotiations with mills, input suppliers, and independent
growers
*  render assistance to the board of directors in negotiations with the Govermnent
- ensure satisfactory performance of the staff training and recruitment program.
Financial Manager. In order to achieve satisfactory performance, the financial
manager will perform the following tasks:
*  develop comprehensive financial plans for the society/association and assist the
general manager and marketing manager in integrating these plans into the
business plans
* prepare business plans including detailed budgets, cash flows, and financial
analysis of marketing and distribution activities and institute financial controls
needed for long-term sustainability
*  identify financial require:nents for operation of the society/extension and sources
of funding to meet these requirements, including retained funds, commercial bank
credit availability and other sources of credit
* secure working capital for the cooperative's operations according to a schedule
specified in the financial plan
* manage the financial activities of the society/association, taking into account the
high levels of inflation and monetary supply restrictions prevailing in Zambia
* participate in negotiations with suppliers, growers, and millers
* maintain overall supervision of society/associations accounts
* assist the General Manager in all financial aspects of the cooperative's activities
* ensure satisfactory training of financial staff.
Marketing Manager.  In order to achie.ve satisfactory performance, the
marketing manager will perform the following tasks:
* develop comprehensive marketing and procurement plans for maize and input
supply, and assist the general manager and financial manager in integrating these
plans into the business plans
* take responsibility for the sale of agricultural inputs to growers and retailers;



- 57 -
Annex    5
Table 3 of 9
* organize maize procurement from growers
* participate in negotiations for procurement of maize from farmers and for sale
of maize to mills
* ensure timely and efficient collection of maize and distribution of agricultural
inputs
* study and analyze trends in the maize marketing operations, and adjust marketing
plans accordingly
* assist the general manager in the overall planning of the cooperative's maize
procurement and agricultural input distribution activities
* ensure satisfactory training of marketing staff.
B. Rural Roads Rehabilitation
Rural Roads Engineer (One in each of three provinces)
4.           Objective. One Rural Roads Engineer will be assigned to each Provincial Road
Engineer's (PRE) Office in Central, Lusaka and Southern Province to manage the Rural Roads
Unit (RRU) in each of these offices. Each Rural Roads Engineer will report to the PRE, and will
be employed in this capacity for a period of 55 months.
5.           Specific Tasks:
* establish the RRU
* develop and implement management controls that will ensure the long run
viability of the RRU
3 develop a plan of action for performing the road repairs and maintenance
specified under the Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
- prepare specifications and a schedule for emergency road repairs and for
labor-based rehabilitation and maintenance of roads
* prepare necessary tender documents
* assist in the selection of contractors together with the contractors training
specialist
* monitor performance of roads contractors
* hire local staff needed to run the rural roads unit (RRU)
* manage the day-to-day operations of the RRU
* provide management and technical assistance to labor-based roads contractors
* manage equipment hire-purchase agreements with labor-based contractors
* facilitate the use of labor-based contractors by the RRU
* manage a training program for local staff.
Labor-intensive Contractor Training Specialist
6.           Objective. To train small contractors in the management and t-chnical aspects
of rural road rehabilitation and repair during a sixty month period. During this time the labor-
intensive contractor training specialist will report to the director of the PRE and be based in
Kabwe.



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 9
7.            Specific Tasks:
* establish training unit to train labor-based contractors
* hire personnel for the training unit, including a mechanic trainer
* identify individuals as potential labor-based contractors
* procure equipment needed for training
* develop training materials and schedule
* train eighteen individuals as labor-based contractors in the following areas:
* contract bidding
* contract management
* labor management
* labor based road reconstruction and maintenance techniques
* equipment repair and maintenance
* financial management
* establish a process for Contractor Certification to be conferred on those
individuals who achieve the necessary level of competence to function as
independent contractors
i Identify, with the assistance of the RRU Heads the roads to be used for practical
training
c coordinate and manage practical training and Contractor Certification;
* Monitor and provide technical and management advise to recent contractor
graduates
* coordinate all training activities with the needs of the Rural Roads Engineers.
Mechanic Trainer
8.            Objective. To train labor-based roads contractors in the repair and maintenance
of their equipment. The trainer mechanic will be hired for a period of sixty months and report
to the labor-intensive contractor training specialist.
9.            Specific Tasks:
*  train labor based roads contractors in the repair and maintenance of their
equipment
*  repair project road equipment during the training period
Local Roads Consultants
Objective. To identify and prioritize the rural road repair and maintenance in
Central, Lusaka, and Southern provinces.
10.          Specific Tasks:
* conduct a study of all rural roads in Central, Lusaka and Southern Province,
noting the general condition of the road, structures or sections of road in need
of emergency repair, estimated traffic flows, estimated cost of repair, estimated
benefit of repair and importance of the road for maize transport



- 59 -
Annex    5
Page 5 of 9
*  list, in the order of priority, structures and sections of road in each province that
are in need of emergency repair (the priority should be based on a cost-benefit
analysis of the repair and on the importance of the road to maize transport)
*  list, in the order of priority, roads that should be repaired under the labor-
intensive road repair program (the priority should be based on a cost-benefit
analysis of the repair and on the importance of the road to maize transport)
*  assist RRU Head and labor-intensive contractor training specialist to identify
roads and establish a schedule for road repair and maintenance
*  assist RRU in the supervision of contractors employed to execute rehabilitation
and maintenance of rural roads.
C. Market Development and Monitoring Technical Assistance
Private Sector Agricultural Marketing Specialist (AMS)
11.           Objective. To assist the Marketing and Logistics Information Center (MLIC) in
the Ministry of Agriculture Food and Fisheries (MAFF) to develop expertise in the area of
private sector agricultural marketing, and data collection and dissemination, and provide market
information services to the private sector. The AMS will report to the head of the MLIC for a
period of twenty-four months and perform the following tasks during this period.
12.       Specific Tasks:
*  identify services that MLIC is txpected to provide under a private sector
marketing system and make recommendations on mechanisms for providing such
services. Develop a mandate for the MLIC on the basis of discussions with
MAFF
*  develop a plan of action that will enable the MLIC to provide the services
specified in its mandate
*  assist the Head of the MLIC in the implementation of the action plan
*  train MLIC personnel in the areas of data collection, analysis and dissemination
of private sector marketing information, including individual training in computer
use, market analysis, data collection techniques, and use of the news media for
information dissemination
*  arrange and coordinate exchange and study prc.,-ams for personnel
*  organize seminars/workshops on private sector marketing for private traders
*  hire locally based consultants as private sector training specialists to present
seminars or run workshops on private sector agricultural marketing.
Private Sector Training Consultants
13.       Objective. To increase the level of understanding among grain and fertilizer traders
of the operations of a private sector marketing system.  Educate traders in management
techniques suited to private sector grain marketing and fertilizer and seed distribution.



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 9
14.      Specific Tasks:
*  assist the agricultural marketing specialist in MLIC, who will be coordinating
these training seminars and workshops, to identify topics and a timetable for
scheduling seminars and workshops
*  organize and run seminars and workshops on topics related to the management
of grain/fertilizer marketing firms in a market economy
*  identify suitable places or facilities for holding seminars and workshops
*  monitor and evaluate the impact of seminars and workshop on private sector
development.
Maize Export Study
15.          Objective. To assess the potential for maize exports from Zambia to other
countries in the region.
16.          Specific Tasks:
*  conduct an economic analysis of the potential for maize exports from Zambia to
other countries in the region
*  prepare a report containing the findings of this study and submit it to the Minister
of Agriculture by June 1994.
Standard and Grading Specialist
17.          Objective. To assist Zambia Bureau of Standards to develop expertise in testing
and monitoring sanitary and phytosanitary quality in food and animal feed. The consultant, to be
hired for a period of twenty four months, will report directly to the Director of ZABS, and
perform the following tasks;
18.          Specific Tasks:
*  identify areas of food or animal feed processing where sanitary and phytosanitary
control and monitoring is critically needed and where testing and monitoring by
ZABS will have significant public benefits, and on the basis of this identification,
recommend requisite action
*  develop a plan of action that will enable ZABS to provide testing and monitoring
services in critically needed areas
*  train local personnel in the methods for testing and monitoring food and animal
feed, including laboratory methods and field testing
*  advise the director of ZABS on the acquisition and installation of laboratory
equipment and facilities provided under the Agricultural Marketing and
Processing Infrastructure Credit
*  advise the director of ZABS on improving the library and database of
international sanitary and phytosanitai, regulations, thus improving information
services to agribusiness enterprises and exporters/importers.



- 61 -
Annex   5
Page 7 of 9
D. Auditing Technical Assistance
19.          Objective. The Government of Zambia will employ independent auditors to
ensure timely and accurate auditing of IDA project accounts.
20.          Specific Tasks:
*  report to the Auditor General's Office in the Ministry of Finance
*  audit project accounts in compliance with the legal covenants requiring annual
submission of audit reports for project accounts in compliance with international
accounting standards and IDA special requirements.



- 62 -
Annex  5
Page 8 of 9
E. Objectives and Nature of Consultant Contracts
Consultant                     Obiective                      Person Months                  Individual/Firm
1. Marketing Management        To assist in development of   504                             Firm
Consultants                  private  sector  maize
marketing during transition
period to be provided to
selected   participating
marketing agencies.
2. Pural Roads Engineers       To assist in establishment and    165                         Individual
management of rural roads
units for rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads in
project area.
3. Labor-Intensive Contractor    To assist in training small    60                           Individual
Training Specialist          contractors in  management
and technical aspects of rural
roads  rehabilitation   and
maintenance
4. Mechanic Trainer            To   train   labor-based       60                             Firm
contractors in repair and
maintenance of equipment.
5. Local Roads Consultants     To supervise, on behalf of      6                             Firm
RRU, road contractors and
identify roads to be included
in annual work program.
6.  Agricultural  Marketing    Assist MLIC in developing      24                             Firm
Specialist                  information   system   to
facilitate development of a
private  sector  maize
marketing system.
7. Training Consultants        To organize and run training   48                             Individual/Firm
seminars and workshops for
private traders.
8.  Maize  Export  Study       To carry out a study to assess  4                             Firm
Consultants                  potential fc! maize exports
9. Standard and Grading        To assist ZABs to develop      24                             Individual
Specialist                     testing   and   monitoring
capability for food standards.
10. Audit consultants          To  assist in  auditing  of    12                             Firm
project accounts.



- 63 -
Annex   5
Page 9 of 9
Consultants                   Obiective                      Person Months                  Individual/Firm
11.  Monitoring   and         To assist in monitoring of    30                              Firm
Evaluation Consultants        project implementation and
evaluation of project impact.



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
ELIGIBILITY AND APPRAISAL OF PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANKS
A. Selection criteria for participating commercial banks
Any commercial bank registered to do business in Zambia is eligible to participate
in the onlending of funds provided under the Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure
Project, if it meets the following criteria (as stipulated in the World Bank OD 8.30):
(1) Financial Performance and Solvency:
(a) sound net income as measured by the core capital ratio of at least 4%; and a total
capital ratio of at least 8%;
(b) PCB should have not rescheduled more than 20% of its portfolio;
(c) a satisfactory credit collection rate.
(2) Onlending criteria of a PCB should be based primarily on sound business principles
of ability and risk.
(3) Resource mobilization of a PCB should be satisfactory to the extent that it is capable
to compete successfully for funds in the financial market.
(4) Independence of decision making as reflected in the PCB management's freedom and
accountability for choosing the credit risks the PCB will accept or reject and for
making staffing and other input decisions on a cost-conscious basis.
(5) Management and staffing of a PCB must be satisfactory in terms of administrative
structure, managerial processes, and the skills required of staff and managers.
(6) PCB should have up-to-date audit reports that are satisfactory to the Bank and the
audit must be carried out by qualified external auditors.
In view of the eligibility criteria, only three commercial banks are expected to initially
qualify for participation in the Project. These three banks were estimated to control over 70
percent of total assets in the commercial banking system in Zambia. Initial eligibility assessment
by Bank supervision missions will be directed at qualifying these three banks. However, other
commercial banks and financial institutions will be appraised and qualified, if found eligible.
Supervision missions, with the help of the Project's M&E capability, will periodically monitor
the eligibility of PCBs and those found ineligible will be disqualified from participating.



- 65 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
B. Participating commercial banks (PCBS)
Three commercial banks were partially appraised for this project on the basis of the criteria for
PCBs, outlined above. The banks appraised are Barclays Bank of Zambia, Zambia National
Commercial Bank, and Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia. The financial soundness, local
banking expertise, branch networks, and current involvement in lending to the agricultural sector
make all three banks obvious candidates for participation in the project. They are the three
largest commercial banks in Zambia, and together controlled 70 percent of the total assets in
commercial banking in 1989. Other banks may be added to this set at a later time should they
meet the eligibility criteria. General information on each bank is summarized in Table 1 in the
main text, while information on financial performance is presented in Annex 6, Table 1.
There are a number of institutional constraints placed on commercial banks by the Bank of
Zambia that limit the way they operate. The first of these is a limit on interest rates for bank
borrowing and lending, limiting competition between banks on this basis. As of February 1,
1992, the following interest rate limitations applied; the official Bank Rate at which the Bank of
Zambia lends to commercial banks is set at 47 percent; the maximum lending rate at which
commercial banks can lend is set at 51 percent; the minimum interest rate that can be paid on
balances in savings acc;ounts is set at 38 percent, and the Treasury Bill rate is 45 percent.
All three PCBs charge the maximum interest rate of 51 percent on loans reflecting the interest
rate regulations, but there are no limits placed on fees that can be charged for processing loans,
allowing banks to charge up-front fees of about 10 percent of the value of the loan, thus
increasing the effective interest rate to at least 70 percent. It is on this basis that commercial
banks compete for borrowers. Banks often pay interest rates on deposits that are higher than the
minimum level in order to attract savings; because of fees charged on loans, however, the spread
between interest rates paid on loans and deposits is still adequate to ensure profitability.
The second major regulatory constraint placed on commercial banks is that they are expected
to meet a statutory reserve requirement by holding at least 28 percent of their total deposits with
the Bank of Zambia in non-interest-bearing accounts, and are expected to maintain an internal
liquidity ratio of 31 percent on total deposits, in addition to the statutory reserve requirement.
A summary of each candidate participating commercial bank's operations is presented below.
1. Barclays Bank of Zambia
Barclays is the largest commercial bank in Zambia. Although Barclays is a locally registered
commercial bank founded in 1918, it is a wholly owned subsidy of Barclays PLC with
headquarters in the United Kingdom. T. ' bank has a total of thirty two branches and six
agencies spread throughout Zambia, with a heavy concentration in Copperbelt and Lusaka
provinces.



- 66 -
Annex    6
Page 3 of 5
The bank has a well-established management team that has a good understanding of local
economic conditions and the regulatory environment and has autonomy to manage the operations
of the bank. The bank has well-established lending procedures and a well-trained staff to execute
these procedures. It meets and exceeds local statutory requirements and is audited annually in
accordance with local and international accounting practices. It is well capitalized, with the core
capital to asset ratio of 23 percent on December 31, 1991. It also has high levels of liquidity as
a result of statutory reserve and internal liquidity requirements. Profitabilivy and return on equity
have also been satisfactory over the past three years, with a return on assets ranging from 2.4 to
3.2 percent and return on equity ranging from 17 to 26 percent over the last three years.
The bank has, over the years, reserved a significant percentage of its lending volume for
agricultural purposes, mainly seasonal credit and agricultural marketing. This percentage has
been decreasing steadily over the last three years-from 66 percent in 1989 to 59 percent in 1990
and 44 percent in 1991-through a conscious effort on the part of the bank's management to
diversify its portfolio. Although the majority of this lending has been to commercial and
corporate entities, Barclays also has experience lending to small-scale farmers through its "Lima"
program, a lending program that provides agricultural advise to small farmers through a staff of
nineteen agricultural advisors and loan agents.
2. Zambia National Commercial Bank, Ltd.
Zambia National Commercial Bank, Ltd. is a subsidiary of Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation, Ltd. (ZIMCO), a parastatal, which owns 99.8 percent of its issued share capital.
ZNCB is the second largest bank in Zambia in total assets and has thirty eight branches, which
are well distributed around the country. Although ZNCB is a subsidiary of a parastatal, its
management team operates autonomously in the management and lending operations of tht bank.
It uses standard accounting practices and is audited annually by the international accounting firm
of Coopers and Lybrand. Audited financial statements are published each year. It has well-
established lending procedures and lends on a strictly commercial basis.
The bank's capital structure, while satisfactory at a core capital to asset ratio of 7.7 percent in
March 1991, this is lower than the other two banks appraised. However, ZNCB will be
privatized under the PIRC, and this is expected to improve the capital structure of the bank.
Returns on assets and on shareholders' equity are very favorable, which should allow the bank
to raise the necessary capital during the privatizatinn process. Return on assets has ranged
between 6.1 percent and 2.9 percent, and return on equity has ranged between 98.4 and 72.4
percent over the last three years.
Although the bank has started placing greater emphasis on agricultural sector lending,
agricultural lending did not exceed 25 percent of its total portfolio during the year ending March
31, 1991. During this year, it made ZK 400 million in loans to corporate and individual farmers
and ZK 755 millon to cooperatives for crop marketing.



-67
Annex    6
Page 4 of 5
3. Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia
Standard Chartered Bank of Zambia is registered in Zambia, but is 90 percent owned by a
British-based holding company, Standard Chartered PLC. It has operated in Zambia since 1906,
and currently has thirty three branches and agencies. The bank's management team has
considerable banking experience in Zambia and other African countries and has autonomy over
bank management and lending operations in Zambia. The bank meets and exceeds local statutory
requirements, and is audited annually by the international accounting firm of KPMG Peat
Marwick in accordance with local and international accounting practices. Financial statements
are published each year. The bank is well capitalized, having a core capital to asset ratio of 21
percent on December 31, 1990, and it has sufficient liquidity. The bank also has a good record
of profitability and return on equity. Return on assets ranged from 2.7 percent to 2 8 percent
and return on equity of between 23 and 31 percent over the last three years.
Agricultural lending currently makes up 40 percent of the total portfolio. A specialized
agricultural management division oversees the management of the agricultural portfolio, which
includes a program of lending to small farmers. The bank provides computerized cash flow
preparation and viability analysis for normal commercial lending to the agricultural sector; in
addition,, it provides agricultural advisors to assist farmers in the small-scale farmer program.
These services provide assistance to borrowers making investments and provide the bank with
a systematic screening mechanism.
C. Eligibility Criteria for Final Beneficiaries and Subprojects.
Credit to the private sector cooperatives and mills for working and investment capital will be
provided through the PCBs for: (a) the purchase of maize from the producers and fertilizer and
other agricultural inputs from suppliers; (b) the acquisition of capital goods (vehicles, tractors,
trailers, weighing scales, hammermills, and road construction equipment) used in maize
marketing, fertilizer distribution, and rural roads rehabilitation; aid (c) for rehabilitation of
underutilized or abandoned commercial farms.
Enterprises and eligible subprojects to be financed under the credit component will be required
to meet the following conditions which will be incorporated in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
between the MOF and each PCB. These conditions which will be subject to periodic review and
possible amendment if circumstances warrant during project implementation:
(1)  demonstrate technical, financial and economic viability; subloans over USD50,000
equivalent should have an expected financial rate of return of at least 15 percent on total
subproject investment;
(2)  the projected debt service coverage ratio should not be less than 1.3 over the life of the
subproject and debt/equity ratio should not exceed 3:1, with the ratios calculated on the
basis of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to be incurred under the
subproject;



-68 -                            Annex    6
Page 5 of 5
(3)  project sponsors will be required to finance at least 10 percent of the total cost of
subprojects;
(4)  the amount of each subloan, including leases, will be limited to a maximum of
USD100,000; this amount will be reviewed and, if necessary, revised during project
impleme,ntation;
(5)  for lease financing, there will be an enforceable legal agreement between the PCB and
the lease, including an option for the lease to buy the asset at the end of the lease.



-69 -
Annex   6
Table       I
SELECTION AND APPRAISAL OF PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANKS
Summary of Financial Ratios of Participating Commercial Banks
(Percent)
Barclays         ZNCB            Standard
Bank                          Chartered
Coro Capital to Asset Ratio-V       1990/91          23.0              7.7            21.2
1989/90          23.7              8.7            13.2
1988/89          16.1              5.3            13.8
Return on Total Assetsz'            1990/91           3.2              6.1              2.8
1989/90           2.4              5.3             2.7
1988/89           3.1              2.9             2.7
Return on Equity3                   1990/91          21.6             98.4            23.6
1989/90          17.5            92.5             31.9
1988/89          26.5            72.4             25.0
[I Core capital to asset ratio is the sum of shareholders' capital, capital reserves, and retained eanmings divided by asset
weighted by their repective level of risk.
2/ Calculated as net after tax local profits divided by total sets.
3/ Calculated as net after-tax local profits divided by shareholders equity.



- 70 -                                     Annex    7
Page 1 of 2
SUPERVISION PLAN
Visits                                                     Skills/specialty              Staff
pproximate timing               Activity                          reguired                 weeks needed
July 1992                   Project Start-up Mission           Task manager                6.0
Review - FY93 Work Program
Review Maize Export Study          Management specialist
Review performance of maize
marketing TA                       Management specialist
Nov./Dec. 1992              Review M&E plan                    Task manager                15.0
Review Maize marketing TA          Agribusiness specialist
TA to MLIC
Roads Contractor Training          Roads engineer
Emergency Road Repairs             Rural road specialist
Credit Component                   Credit specialist
TA to ZABS                         Food standards specialist
June 1993                   Review - FY94 Work Program         Task manager                18.0
Cooperative Management             Agribusiness specialist
TA to MLIC + TA to ZABS            Task manager
Emergency Road Repairs             Roads engineer specialist
Roads Contractor Training          Labor-based road engineer
Review RDEP Organization           Institutional specialist
Credit Component                   Credit specialist/banking specialist
Nov./Dec. 1993              Cooperative Management             Task manager                15.0
MLIC + ZABS TA                     Agribusiness specialist
Emergency Road Repairs             Roads engineer specialist
Labor-based Road Rehab.            Roads maintenance specialist
Credit Component                   Credit specialist
June 1994                   Review - FY95 Work Plan            Task manager                12.0
Cooperative Management             Agribusiness specialist
MLIC + ZABS TA
Emergency Road Repair
Labor-based Road Rehab.            Labor-based road engineer
Nov/Dec 1994                Labor-based Road Rehab.            Task manager                12.0
Credit Component                   Credit specialist
June 1995                   Mid-term Review                    Task manager                20.0
Environmental specialist
Credit specialist
Labor-based road engineer
Agribusiness specialist



- 71 -
A.nnex 7
Page 2 of 2
Visits                                                   Skills/specialty              Staff
approximate timing             Activity                         required                 weeks needed
Nov/Dec 1995               Labor-based Road Rehab.           Task manager                12.0(each)
Nov/Dec 1996               Credit Component                  Labor-based road engineer
Nov/Dec 1997                                                 Credit specialist
Nov/Dec 1998
June 1996                  Review - FY96 Work Plan            Task manager               12.0(each)
June 1997                  Labor-based Road Rehab.            Labor-based road engineer
ie 1998                  Credit Component                  Credit special.st
June 1999                  Preparation of Project            Task manager                20.0
Completion Report and             Economist
Evaluation                        Credit specialist
Roads engineer



-72 -                                                   Annex 
SUMMARY OF KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
Key Performance Indicators
Item                                         Unit       1993/94      1994/95      1995/96      1996/97       1997/98
A. Private Sector Develooment
1. Short-Term Credit
Total of Small Traders                No.                 50          100          150          250           350
Total of Large Traders                No.                 20           17           19           18            17
Total of Fertilizer Traders           No.                 50           80          120          130           250
Volume of Maize Trade/Annum           (OOO'bags)      10,010       12,000       15,000       18,000        20,000
Volume of Fertilizer trade            (000'tons)         160          165          210          252           260
Short Term Credit in Use              (USD million)        4           15           20          25             30
11. Medium Term Credit
Medium Size Trucks Purchases/Annum    No.                  5            5           10            5             5
Pickup Truck Purchases/Annum          No.                 20           20           20           20            20
Tractor & Trailer/Annum               No.                  5            5           10           10            10
Farm Rehabilitation                   ha.             10,000       10,000            -            -             -
B. Rural Rehabilitation & Maintenance
Emergency Road Repair/Annum            km.                 75           75
Labor-based Road Repair/Annum          km.                  -          115         215          260           260
Labor-based Road Maintenance/Annum     km.                  -           75         265          480           740
Total Labor-based Contractors Trained  No.                  9           18           18          18            18
C. Market Develovment and Monitoring
Private Sector Training Seminars/Annum    No.               4            3           3



- 73 -
Annex    9
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Guidelines for Project Accounting
1.           General.  The following line agencies will have direct responsibility for
implementing the different components of this multi-component project:
* Roads Department (RDEP) through Provincial Road Engineers (PRE) and Rural
Road Units (RRU);
* Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) through the Marketing
Logistics Information Center for market development, monitoring and training;
* The Bank of Zambia and four commercial banks for the Credit component;
* Ministry of Finance (MOF) and participating independent co-operatives or
marketing agencies for marketing technical assistance; and
* Technical Committea on Privatization (ICP) in ZIMCC' and INDECO group
mills for the commercialization and privatization program of the mills.
2.           While the management functions of the participating agencies or entities will
include planning, budgeting of their specific component, implementation of the planned activities,
and component accounting and reporting, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Planning
Division within MAFF will be responsible for centralized procurement, channelling of funds,
maintenance of project accounting records and preparation of final accounts for the annual audit.
The following general guidelines, which have been prepared to assist PIU, will be periodically
reviewed during implementation and modified according to evolving circumstances.
3.           Changes in Accounting Procedures. Excepting for the banking system, ZIMCO
and INDECO group mills, and the cooperatives, all the other implementing agencies are
government units and accounting will be done on a single entry cash basis in accordance with
government financial regulations. Project accounting will also be maintained on a cash basis and
project accounts will form an integral part of the normal accounting system of the respective
agencies or units. However, all project transactions will be accounted for under a separate sub-
heading "AMPIP-IDA' in all accounting records and financial statements. To facilitate
identification, all vouchers pertaining to project. expenditures will be rubber-stamped "AMPIP-
IDA." At the end of each month each agency will prepare a summary of project expenditures
under the follo-ing headings with physical data whenever possible and forward it to PIU with
supporting vouchers and statements (which will include copy of project bank account where
applicable).



Annex    9
Page 2 of 3
Civil Works
Emergency road repairs
Others
Sub Loans for:
Vehicles, Tractors, Trailers & Equipment
Maize
Fertilizer
Farm Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance
Maize-marketing
Others
Training
Overseas
Local
PIU will review the summary statements and will consolidate these summaries with its own
project summary.
4.           The annual accounts of the project for audit will be prepared in the form of a
"sources and application of funds" (Table 1) statement from the consolidated project expenditure
summary compiled by PIU and the supplementary sdbsidiary books described in para 5 which
will be maintained by PIU.
5.           IDA Disbursements - The PIU will be responsible for the procurement of goods
and services required for the project in accordance with IDA guidelines and for making
withdrawals from the IDA credit account. PU will also be responsible for establishing and
operating the off-shore "special account." An IDA credit withdrawal register and a special
account cash book based on the formats given in Tables 4 and 5 will be maintained to record all
withdrawals from the IDA credit and the transactions routed through the "special account."
6.           Withdrawals from IDA credit based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All
disbursement requests will be fully documented with the exception of the following items:
* sub-loans (for investment and working capital) made by palticipating commercial
banks for private sector development;
* local training costs;
* contracts or purchase orders of less than US$ 100,000.
Disbursement oa these items will bN made against SOEs. All the source documents and vouchers
relating to these items of expenditures will be retained by PIU in Lusaka and made available for
review by supervision missions and the independent auditor. PIU will be



Annex   9
Page 3 of 3
responsible for ensuring that an adequate system of internal control with regard to all payments
covered by SOEs will be in force throughout the project period.
7.           Annual Accounts. Audits and Audit Reports. At the end of each fiscal year, the
following financial statements will be prepared by PIU for audit by the independent auditor:
* Project Accounts - 'Sources and Application of Funds" (Table 1) covering all
project activities;
* Summary of the U.S. Dollar Special Account (Table 2).
* List of Withdrawals made from the IDA Credit on the basis of SOEs (Table 3).
PIU will be responsible for the timely submission of the financial statements to the independent
auditor for audit to ensure that the audited financial statements and the related audit reports are
sent to IDA within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year as specified in the Development C xdit
Agreement and detailed in Table 6 to the Annex.
8.        Bank of Zambia will ensure that the participating Banks will submit the following
financial statements and reports to PIU:
MGnthly:
* Copy of the Project Account opened by GOZ for each participating commercial
Bank.
Annually At the end of ea"h fiscal year.
* Summary of the Project Account (opened by GOZ) showing the initial deposit,
subsequent replenishments/deposits on the Receipt Side and Disbursements
(suitably analyzed and grouped according to type of loan) and closing balance on
the Payments side.
* Statement showing the status of the portfolio of Investment as at the end of the
fiscal year.
* Audit Reports in respect of the above mentioned two financial statements.



- 76 -
Annex    9
Table     I
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing & Processing Infrastruc.ure Project
Sources and Application of Funds for FY 199
(in ZK)
Notes        This          Last          Project-period
Sources of Funds                  Ref.          Year                          To-Date
Government                    (1)
AFDB                          (2)
IDA                           (3)
Commercial Banks              (4)
Other receipts (specify)      (5)
Total
Application of Funds
Civil Works                   (6)
Emergency Road-rehab.
Others
Sub-total
Sub-loans for Private
Sector Development           (7)
(specify)
Consultant Services           (8)
(specify type &
function)
Training                      (9)
(specify local/overseas)
Bank Balaiices                (10)
Total



- 77 -
Annex    9
Table    2
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Summary of Special Account for the FY 199...
(in US dollars)
Description                Notes Ref.          Receipts            Payments
Initial deposit/replenishment
for deposits
Payments (summarized und-
Development Credit
expenditure categories with
details given as explanatory
notes).
Balance at end
Total



- 78 -
Annex    9
Table    3
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure
Summary of Withdrawals made from IDA Credit on the Basis of
SOEs during Fiscal Year ended December 31. 199....
W/A No. &   Brief  Expenditure           Amount        SDR             Analysis by
Date      Description       Total              Claimed       Equiv         Credit Category



ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
IDA Credit Withdrawal Register
W/A Ref              Brief Desraipti                                                            IDA'e Sham P aid diect (bv IDA} or from Special Account                       Analysis
&                        of                        Total                 Fmancing                                              Fxhange                                        by
Date                  Gooda/Services                 Amount                                     Cateuo,v   Amount 2/              Rate                USS        SDR        ZIC        Credit Cazesory
aI
21               In currency of claim.



ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Special Account Cash Book
Location ....                     Account Number .......................   Imprest: US$500,000
Witmmals
Dollar Codt &   Date &                     Amount
WIA RPf      Dcposita                              Crdit Caegoy     Voucher                          in Cunrncy        Exchage                          IDA Cndit
& Date        Dccription 3/               Amount  (Debited by IDA)   Ref.   Desacrition 4/            of Request        Rate            USS              Catceorv
00
3/  Including, credit category details & IDA payment advice reference.
4/ Including offshore banklBOZ payment advice reference.



- 81 -
Anne,x    9
Table    6
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Marketing & Processing Infrastructure Project
Compliance with Au2it Covenants
A.         Appoint auditor with proper terms of reference (rOR)
and dispatch copy of Credit Agreement and disbursement
letter for auditor's file                                September 30, 1992
B.         Audited accounts and audit reports to be submitted for
each fiscal year commencing year ending                  December 31, 1992
(a)      Audited Accounts
Project account - source & Application of Funds (Table 1)
Summary of the Special account (Table 2)
Summary of Withdrawals made on the basis of SOEs. (Table 3)
Summary of the Project Account submitted by each Participating Commercial Bank.
Status of Portfolio of Investments submitted by each Participating Commercial Bank.
(b)      Audit Reports
Audit reports (short form) on each of the above,
together with long form audit reports commenting on
internal controls and management aspects.
C.         Due date for the submission of the first set of
audited statements and audit reports                     September 30, 1993
D.         Due date for each subsequent fiscal year's audited statement
and audit reports till the end of project implementation  Sept. 30 following
the end of each
fiscal year



ZAMBIA~~~~~~ -r>ANZANi/A
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING                           b/g                             I  4 ' -
fNFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                 -';;-        
PROJECT AREA                  TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS   -
> i) eRovlnre cAPls^Ls ~~~~~~~~~(Project Areaz ClntRI aymw)   o_   -
;                          \vs     *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAt CAPITAIL, r.   RIVERS                                       KASAA>__A/  <}s 
(  -     ~~PROVINCE EOUJNDARIES  -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               [JI11N-.IN                         .\
ose-pp  &>t   7  ~~~ZAIRtE                               /S            zQX
br Th. Wcwdd fsnP . or  ,Mii    _}                                   (iUAP                    
Cidp                                                     hh enuane hw1  L      J    -d
Wor df TaC W.ldsnlGor 9   - 4/.Llio 
schEvrories<   )WESTERNe>                                                  
rf a r ~~~~~~MO:)AMBIU
AN'wC5LA    WESER                                                                                   ANGOLA/ 4  0Ut1 &
NAIsBIA    W0NGST<DKE    jr                                         fR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NMIICA
AIr LA                                 -         F0_II_
Aprii 1992



