Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No:. 20279
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2422-ZA)
April 5,2000
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Completion US$1 =ZK 2,550.00
At Appraisal US$1=ZK 125.0
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Zambia
July 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               African Development Bank
AMIC               Agricultural Market Information Centre
ASIP               Agricultural Sector Investment Program
BOZ                Bank of Zambia
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
GRZ                The Govermment of the Republic of Zambia
IDA                International Development Association
LIBOR              London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MAFF               Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MLGH               Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MMAP               Marketing Management and Assistance Project
MOF                Ministry of Finance
PC                 Project Coordinator
PCBs               Participating Commercial Banks
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
ROADSIP            Road Sector Investment Program
RTS                Roads Training School
TA                 Technical Assistance
ZABS               Zambia Bureau of Standards
ZAMPIP             Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project
Vice President           :Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director         :Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager           :Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader         :Tekola Dejene



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2422-ZA)
Table of Contents
Preface .....................................................................                                                   i
Evaluation Summary .................................................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES .....................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF PROJECT  OBJECTIVES .........................................................3
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT  ......................................................................4
General ......................................................................4
Private Sector Development ....................................................................S5
Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance ..........................................................7
Market Development and Monitoring ......................................................................8
Policy Reform  Package ......................................................................9
Technical Assistance and Training .....................................................................         9
Project Organization and Management .....................................................................9
Procurement                                           .................................................................... 10
Project Costs and Financing ....................................................................               11
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................................                       11
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ....................................................................                             11
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ....................................................................                         12
G. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ....................................................................                        12
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS .....................................................................     13
1. LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................                               13
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .....................................................................     15
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits                                            ..17
Table 3. Project Timetable .17
Table 4.  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual . .18
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .19
Table 8A. Project Costs ..............................................                                         20
Table 8B.  Project Financing ...............................................                                  21
Table 9.    Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                        21
Table 10.   Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                         22
Table 11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................. 23
Table 12.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                       23



Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions .............................       24
APPENDICES
A. AIDE MEMOIRE
B. REVIEW OF RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Map - IBRD No. 23688



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2422-ZA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Marketing and
Processing Infrastructure Project, for which Credit 2422-ZA in the amount of SDR 24.1 million
(US$ 33 million equivalent) was approved on September 8, 1992 and made effective on May 28,
1993.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1999, as originally scheduled. About 64% of the Credit
were disbursed by the end of November 1999.
The ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP)
on behalf of the Africa Rural Development Operations (AFTR1) of the World Bank. The ICR is
based on information obtained from the project files and on the findings of an ICR mission ,
which visited Zambia in September 1999. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing
Draft Completion Reports on the Credit and Road Components, and providing input to the Aide-
Memoire prepared by the ICR mission. The borrower also reviewed the draft ICR and sent
official written comments. Some of these comments are taken into account in the final
preparation of the report.
Messrs. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, CP), and Tim Jackson (Rural Infrastructure Engineer,
Consultant).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE, PROJECT (Cr.
2422-ZA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.  Since the 1970s, Zambia's economy has been deteriorating progressively due to the
combined effects of declining copper prices and rising oil prices. Substantial Government
control and intervention in the economy, leading to a major crisis in the late 1980s have further
aggravated this. In order to reverse the trend, the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)
decided to overhaul the economy, and, in 1990, prepared a Policy Framework Paper that paved
the way for a sweeping reform program. The main focus of this program, supported by the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, was economic liberalization, including the
decontrol of prices, exchange rates and domestic and foreign trade, reduction of budget deficit,
and increased participation of the private sector in the economy. In the agricultural sector, the
reform aimed at eliminating subsidies and public sector monopoly in the marketing of maize and
other agricultural commodities, and in processing.
2.   The Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project (ZAMPIP)
aimed at increasing agricultural production by supporting the economic reform program. The
main project objectives were to assist with reforn of the highly regulated financial sector and
inefficient agricultural marketing and rural transportation systems. Project components included
provision of credit for marketing of inputs and outputs, maize milling and rural transport;
improvement of some 1,000 km of rural roads; market development comprising establishment of
an information center and introduction of grading and standards for agricultural commodities;
technical assistance to support project implementation; and a policy reform package to accelerate
the reform program. The project, to be implemented over six years, was to be executed through
existing line agencies, with a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Fisheries (MAFF) providing project coordination.
Project Implementation and Results
3.   When the project was declared effective in May 1993, only two components startd on
time, i.e., the policy reform package and the credit component. GRZ began the reform process
before ZAMPIP became effective, and by the second year, the major objectives had been
achieved. The project played an important role in restructuring the agricultural sector by
ensuring that the conditionalities (restructuring of Commercial Banks and financial institution,
ensuring cooperatives autonomy by law, liberalization of maize markets and prices, liberalizatioi
iii



of fertilizer markets, market-determined interest rates) incorporated in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) were adhered to.
4.   The credit component had commenced promptly, and within the first six months, a short-
term loan of K 3.1 million (US$ 6.86 million) was disbursed to private traders to support the
1992/93 maize marketing season. This season yielded a bumper maize harvest, posing a severe
test for the privatized market operating for the first time without the co-operative unions, which
had formerly operated a monopoly on behalf of GRZ. However, this promising start was short-
lived as no credit was disbursed during the following three years. According to the Participating
Commercial Banks (PCBs), lending became impossible because of high interest rates caused by
measures introduced by the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) to control money supply. It took about three
years to finalize a suitable agreement for the PCBs to resume lending operations. By mid-1997,
thirteen medium-term loans, amounting to US$ 4.05 million, were approved, mainly for
producing high value crops and for agricultural processing. While the demand for credit
continued to grow, IDA decided to close the line of credit in mid-1 997, and transfer the
remaining funds to the rural road component, which was then performing satisfactorily. The
decision to cancel the credit component was made in part due to the slow disbursements in the
early years, and mainly on the assumption that the new IDA-supported project, the Enterprise
Development Project (EDP) would provide the services that the private sector development
component of ZAMPIP was to provide. However, the timing was unfortunate, as the problem
was resolved after a new agreement was made between BOZ and PCBs.
5.    Although a first phase road program had been prepared with the assistance of an IDA
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in 1992, road improvement works began only in January 1996.
This was mainly due to a change of institutional responsibility for rural roads from the Ministry
of Works and Supply (MWS) to the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH).
Delays arose because MLGH took long to prepare a Rural Roads Policy Statement, one of the
conditions for disbursement in the DCA. The MLGH, soon after assuming this responsibility,
embarked on the preparation of a sector-wide road program and the preparation of the Rural
Road Policy was tied to this new initiative rather than ZAMPIP, and the condition was not met
until the appraisal of the road sector program (ROADSIP) in the latter part of 1996. The first
phase road program, consisting of 550 km of road rehabilitation, was completed in December
1997. A second phase program was prepared in 1997, comprising a further 240 km of road
improvement, and training of road rehabilitation and maintenance contractors in labor-based
roadwork. However, the second phase road rehabilitation was not carried out due to slow
procurement of civil works. The training program was also not completed, because the MAFF
was not able to make payments on time to the training providers.
6.    The market development and monitoring component was not implemented, because a
program identical to that of ZAMPIP had started in early 1993 with the assistance of FAO and
the Government of the Netherlands. This program had established an Agricultural Market
Information Center (AMIC), and is now operational within the MAFF, supported through ASIP.
The establishment of grading and standards of agricultural outputs and inputs was not realized
because the Zambia Bureau of Standards (ZABS) failed to secure a laboratory building for
project equipment.
iv



7.    As noted in the preceding paragraphs, ZAMPIP was impacted by developments that
affected its ability to implement planned activities. First, the project started in the midst of
fundamental economic and political changes in the country, including the advent of a new
government and the consequent restructuring of Ministries. Second, the project startup and
subsequent implementation coincided with the formulation and implementation of major national
programs and projects. FAO and the Government of the Netherlands supported the market
development and monitoring component and, the ASIP assumed the responsibility for this
component after the FAO/Netherlands assistance ended in 1997. ASIP, which became effective
in January 1996, was formulated as the umbrella program for the agricultural sector. Although
not by design, ASIPs advent coincided with a diminished role for ZAMPIP, and reduced project
identity. This is evidenced by the fact that only one formal IDA supervision mission was carried
out in 1995 and none in 1996, although 4 informal portfolio status updates were done by the task
team during this period, and the joint GRZ/IDA mid-term review was not undertaken. The
formulation and implementation of IDA-supported EDP was also a factor for the closure of the
line of credit and the reallocation of funds to another component, in addition to the component's
poor implementation record. The government, through MLGH, also embarked on the
formulation and implementation of an integrated road sector program, with the goal of
facilitating economic growth and diversification, and reforming the road sector policy and
institutional framework. This created an expectation that the ZAMPIP project will be part of the
ROADSIP program and, therefore, MAFF paid little attention to the project. These actions were
a conscious effort by Government and the Bank to overcome weaknesses in project approach to
development.
8.    ZAMPIP also suffered from poor management. Under ASIP, the MAFF abandoned
implementation arrangement under PIUs. Project implementation responsibility was that of
departments within the structure of the Ministry. Therefore, procurement, financial management
and audit responsibility of the project was transferred to different units/departments of the
Ministry. Moreover, there was no mechanism within which the various implementing agencies
and units within the MAFF could discuss and plan project activities and address policy issues. In
addition, since the project became an integral part of MAFF, other implementing agencies felt
excluded and there was little interaction and coordination.
Achievement of Objectives
9.    The project has only achieved some of its original objectives. The main achievement has
been in the area of policy reform, as the project was instrumental, together with other donors'
support, in encouraging GRZ to continue implementation of the reform program in the
agricultural sector. These included the liberalization of prices for all agricultural commodities
including maize and fertilizer; elimination of monopoly rights to agricultural marketing granted
to the co-operative unions; removal of subsidies on agricultural inputs and outputs and on maize
transport and processing; the restructuring of MAFF, particularly, the gradual phasing out of the
Co-operative Department formerly involved in agricultural marketing on behalf of GRZ, and
financial sector reform.
10.   Unfortunately, the PIU failed to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system,
and consequently, one has to rely on other sources of information to assess achievements of the
project. The agricultural sector was generally depressed during most of the project
v



implementation period, but the project has helped to minimize the negative impact on both the
overall economy and the sector. The reform in the liberalization of markets and the
encouragement of private sector participation in output and input trade is one of the major
achievements. Although the short and medium-term impact has been dampened by adverse
weather conditions in subsequent years, the reforms has opened the way for a substantial
development of agriculture, enabling the sector to adjust to changing national and international
demand, as well as enabling the private sector to position itself to play a critical role in
agricultural development. In particular, the project provided timely assistance to prevent the
collapse of the maize market when this was privatized in 1992/93. In terms of improving
marketing and processing infrastructure, the project made little impact, because relevant
components were not implemented as intended.
Project Costs and Financing
11. Total project costs amounted to US$ 24.36 million, equivalent to about 36% of appraisal
estimates. The lower costs were mainly due to major changes introduced to the project, which
entailed the transfer of components and donor funds to other projects. Total IDA disbursement
amounted to US$ 21.11 million (64% of the Credit) and about US$ 12.71 million remain
undisbursed. IDA financed 87% of the total costs, and GRZ the remaining13%.
Bank Performance
12. The Bank's decision to assist GRZ in the implementation of the economic reform program
in the agricultural sector was a sensible initiative, which has led to a major reduction in public
sector involvement in marketing and processing of agricultural commodities. The Bank has been
pro-active in identifying emerging issues and designing new programs/projects that are
responsive to the demands of the complex and dynamic situations that were emerging in Zambia.
The sector approach was implemented in the health, education, road, and agriculture sectors.
The Enterprise Development Project was also implemented to address issues pertaining to
financial sector reform and financial services. All these are rather positive actions by the Bank
and the Government, although it had, by necessity, to disrupt the implementation of individual
on-going projects in each sector, such as ZAMPIP. In spite of this, however, overall Bank
performance has been partially satisfactory. The main reasons for this assessment are mainly
due to weaknesses in project design, particularly, the weak atrangement for project
implementation; the inflexibility of the medium-term loans, which carried a term of three years
regardless of the type of business; unrealistic expectations for labor-based road contracts, in the
absence of any existing capacity in the country; and, unresolved institutional responsibility for
rural roads at the time of project start up. Moreover, the Bank's performance in terms of
supervision was inadequate, although supervision had improved within the last two years of the
project.
Borrower Performance
13. The Borrower's determined implementation of the economic reform program in the initial
years of the project was commendable. Equally, GRZ's readiness to resolve difficulties relating-
vi



to the credit component helped to improve the flow of funds. However, in spite of these
accomplishments, overall performance of the Borrower has been deficient, largely because
GRZ's commitment to the project has progressively declined with the formulation and
implementation of ASIP, EDP and ROADSIP.
Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operations
14. First, the project has met only a limited part of its objectives. As already noted, most
project components were either transferred to other new projects (ASIP, ROADSIP, EDP), or
substantially modified during the course of implementation. The establishment of a
market-based economy, with a liberalized agricultural sector, has largely been achieved. The
policy packages introduced by the project has resulted in greater private sector participation,
including increased share of agriculture in total export earnings and diversification of production.
Albeit limited, the credit extended under the project should contribute to increased agricultural
production and foreign exchange earnings. The reduced road rehabilitation program is believed
to have improved rural transportation in some parts of the three provinces. Second, it is likely
that the few activities (e.g., policy reform, marketing and credit ) carried out by the project will
be sustainable, with the exception of the road component. Most of the private sector agricultural
production and processing enterprises supported by the project are believed to be sustainable
ventures. The sustainability of the road component of the project is, however, uncertain. This is
because the institutional framework put in place under ROADSIP for the maintenance and
rehabilitation, as well as the funding mechanisms are yet to be implemented, and hard to tell the
outcome. The uncertainty could improve if ZAMPIP's initiative of using local rehabilitation
contractors, which is under review, is fully implemented by ROADSIP. Concerning policy
reform that took place over the years, it is likely to be sustainable and there is very little risk of
reversal in many of the areas. Third, as stated in earlier paragraphs, the activities/components of
ZAMPIP are taken over and being supported by new on-going projects.
Lessons Learned
15.  Important lessons that emerge from the implementation of ZAMPIP are:
In projects where there are several implementing agencies, it is appropriate to
have an inter-ministerial coordinating body, in which all the implementing
agencies are represented, to discuss implementation progress and issues. The
lack of such an arrangement was one of the main causes for the poor
implementation of ZAMPIP.
Unilateral closing of a project component, as experienced with the line of
credit, is not advisable. This discourages both PCBs and borrowers alike from
dealing with similar credit schemes in the future, as they tend to lose
confidence in the institutions.
Sufficient number of senior, competent, motivated, and project-specific staff
are required for effective implementation of a project. Staff and other changes,
which diffuse and reduce responsibilities for project management, will have an
adverse effect on project performance. The project has suffered from
vii



unsatisfactory management by MAFF, and to a lesser extent, MLGH in
ensuring a timely and adequate flow of funds to implement the project.
Continuity in project management and in project supervision, in the side of the
Bank, is also very critical, and was lacking under this project.
Setting up a project monitoring and evaluation system and maintaining the
system through out the project is critical in order to enable project management
to check and assess implementation. The neglect by the project in setting up
the monitoring and evaluation system as envisaged has resulted in poor
assessment of implementation progress and, hindered assessment of impact.
Road maintenance design should include sufficient resources and practical
arrangements for maintenance and rehabilitation, and should address the issue
of how these resources will be generated (or sustained) after project
completion. Without assured maintenance, the pre-project situation of severe
neglect will recur within a few years, as observed under the project.
When decisions to implement national programs, instead of projects, is made, it
is appropriate to fold existing self-standing projects into the national program
within a reasonable period of time, to avoid the kind of neglect the ZAMPIP
project encountered.
viii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Cr. 2422-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.  In the early 1990s, the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) introduced a major
reform program to improve the performance of the country's ailing economy. In this context,
GRZ prepared a Policy Framework Paper in 1990 with the support of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. The main thrust of the reform program was economic
liberalization, which included: removal of price and exchange rate controls; elimination of
restrictions in the import and export trade; reduction of budget deficit and domestic inflation;
introduction of monetary policy measures to adjust interest rates; and implementation of a
privatization program to improve efficiency and the participation of the private sector in the
economy.
2.    Within the agricultural sector, the reform priorities included promoting private sector
participation in marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs, and in agro-processing, which were
both previously dominated by the public sector. This was to be achieved by eliminating price
controls, subsidies and restrictions on foreign trade; reducing public expenditure in agriculture
by removing subsidies on maize, fertilizer and transport of agricultural commodities; and
promoting private sector participation in agricultural production, processing and marketing
through improvements in market information, rural transport and credit. The main areas of
support to achieve these objectives include:
Private Sector Development, consisting of the provision of investment and
working capital credit for private enterprises, traders, farmers, road
contractors and transport operators. This support was expected to enhance
private sector participation in agricultural marketing, processing and rural
transport. Newly privatized enterprises were also to receive technical
assistance (TA) in business management.
-   Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance, whose main thrust was to
rehabilitate 1,000 km of rural roads through labor-based contracts, and to
strengthen maintenance capacity in Southern, Lusaka and Central Provinces.
-   Market Development and Monitoring, consisting of the collection, analysis
and dissemination of market information; provision of training to individual
private traders; and establishment and monitoring of standards and grading for-
maize, animal feed and other agricultural commodities.



-    Technical Assistance to support implementation of the above components.
-    Policy Reform Package to expedite reforms already initiated, and ensure, in
particular, the decontrol of maize prices, elimination of maize marketing
subsidies, liberalization of export marketing of maize, eliminatio9n f fertilizer
subsidies by decontrolling prices at all level, decontrol road transport rates for
maize and fertilizer, amend the cooperative Act and Agricultural Marketing
Act to reflect their autonomy, establishing leasing arrangement for government
owned storage facility and privatization of maize mills. This package consisted
of conditionalities that bind GRZ to introduce measures required to implement
the reform program.
3.   The project, to be implemented over six years', was estimated to cost US$68.0 million
(K8,500 million), of which foreign exchange comprised about 45%. Some 51% of project costs
were to be absorbed by the private sector development component, and 30% by the road
component. The project was to be financed as follows: 49% IDA, 18% the African Development
Bank (AfDB), 23% GRZ, and 10% by commercial banks and beneficiaries.
4.   The project was to be implemented by several existing agencies including: the Roads
Department of the Ministry of Works and Supply for the road component; the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) for the TA in business management for private enterprises; the Bank of Zambia
(BOZ) and the Participating Commercial Banks (PCBs) for the credit component; the Zambia
Bureau of Standards (ZABS) for standards and grading; and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Fisheries (MAFF) for market development, monitoring and training. These implementing
agencies were to be responsible for planning, execution, monitoring and reporting for their
respective components.
5.   Overall project responsibility was to be vested in MAFF, and co-ordination of project
implementation was to be carried out by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Planning
Division. It was envisaged that an experienced Project Co-ordinator (PC) would head the PIU to
provide co-ordination, reporting, monitoring and financial control. The PC was to be supported
by an economist, an accountant and other support staff. No inter-agency co-ordinating body was
foreseen under the project.
6.   The design of ZAMPIP was correctly focused on sectoral improvements that can enhance
the emergence of a market-based economy, which was the basis of the reform program. The
economic situation in the early 1 990s was characterized by unsustainable public-sector activities,
and project components were well suited to promote private sector involvement to improve
agricultural production, marketing and processing. However, the project had some design
limitations including: the lack of inter-ministerial coordinating body in which all the
implementing agencies were represented; the inflexibility of the medium-term loans, which
carried a term of three years regardless of the type of business; unrealistic expectations for labor-
based road contracts, in the absence of any existing capacity in the country; and unresolved
institutional responsibility for rural roads. These design shortcomings have negatively affected
project implementation.
The project implementation period is indicated as five years in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), while this4s
given as six years in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
-2-



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.  The project has only achieved some of its original objectives. The main achievement has
been in the area of policy reform, as the project was instrumental, together with other donors'
support, in encouraging GRZ to continue implementation of the reform program in the
agricultural sector. These included the liberalization of prices for all agricultural commodities
including maize and fertilizer; elimination of monopoly rights to agricultural marketing granted
to the co-operative unions; removal of subsidies on agricultural inputs and outputs and on maize
transport and processing; the restructuring of MAFF, particularly, the gradual phasing out of the
Co-operative Department formerly involved in agricultural marketing on behalf of GRZ, and
financial sector reform. It has to be noted that Zambia's success in implementing the reform
program came about as a result of various measures taken by Government, and ZAMPIP
contribution to this process through the inclusion of selected reform agenda as conditions for
Credit effectiveness and disbursement, and through strict enforcement.
8.  Unfortunately, the PIU failed to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system
(para. 0), and consequently, one has to rely on other sources of information to assess
achievements of the project. The agricultural sector was generally depressed during most of the
project implementation period, but the project has helped to minimize the negative impact on
both the overall economy and the sector. The reform in the liberalization of markets and the
encouragement of private sector participation in output and input trade is one of the major
achievements. Although the short and medium-term impact has been dampened by adverse
weather conditions in subsequent years, the reforms has opened the way for a substantial
development of agriculture, enabling the sector to adjust to changing national and international
demand, as well as enabling the private sector to position itself to play a critical role in
agricultural development. In particular, the project provided timely assistance to prevent the
collapse of the maize market when this was privatized in 1992/93 (para. 0). In terms of
improving marketing and processing infrastructure, the project made little impact, because
relevant components were not implemented as intended.
9.    None of the project components was implemented as intended at appraisal. The private
sector development component was only partially implemented, and achievements have been
modest. A short-term loan for working capital, to be given to traders and other entrepreneurs,
was effectively used only once, to purchase the bumper maize harvest of the 1992/93 season.
Only 13 medium-term loans were provided, mainly for agricultural production and processing,
but no loans were taken to acquire trucks or light vehicles (pick-ups) for transport in the rural
areas. The provision of technical assistance in business management to private co-operatives and
enterprises did not materialize (para. 0). Out of the appraisal target of 1,000 km of road
rehabilitation (later revised to 910 km), only 550 km has been accomplished.
10. The market development and monitoring component was not implemented for two reasons:
(i) the activities to establish the market information system were taken up by another project, the
Marketing Management and Assistance Project (MMAP) with the assistance of
FAO/Government of Netherlands; and (ii) the improvement in standards and grading of
agricultural inputs and outputs was never initiated as ZABS was unable to secure a laboratory
building (para. 29).
-3-



C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
General
11. The project started in the midst of fundamental economic and political changes in the
country, including the advent of a new government and the consequent restructuring of
Ministries. Start-up and subsequent implementation of ZAMPIP coincided with the formulation
and implementation of major programs and projects in the agriculture, roads and financial
sectors. In the agriculture sector, MAFF, with the assistance of IDA and other donors formulated
and implemented a sector-wide program, the Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP). A
sector-wide roads program, Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP) was also formulated
and implemented by MOLG, MCT and MWS. The MCTI also formulated and implemented the
Enterprise Development Project (EDP) during the implementation phase of ZAMPIP. These
events have adversely affected the pace of project implementation both directly and indirectly.
12. The preparation and subsequent implementation of ASIP, which aimed at incorporating all
agricultural development programs under its umbrella, affected project implementation. Because
of ASIP's sectoral approach, both MAFF and IDA tended to de-emphasize the independent
identity of ZAMPIP. During project supervision in November 1994, it was decided to integrate
the project within ASIP, though the latter became effective only after about one year, i.e., in
December 1995. Since implementation arrangement for ASIP was through the normal structure
of the Ministry and all previous project implementation units were abolished, the PIU of
ZAMPIP was abolished and one of the departments of the newly structured MAFF, Market
Infrastructure Development Branch of the Economic and market Development Department
(EMMD) was given the responsibility of following up the project. Since the restructuring of the
Ministry was delayed until mid-1998, implementation of the project suffered during this period.
This situation signaled a diminished status and role of the project within MAFF, and
consequently led to increased negligence in fulfilling required tasks. For instance, only one
formal IDA supervision mission was carried out in 1995 and none in 1996, although 4 informal
portfolio status updates were carried out by the task team during this period, and the joint
GRZ/IDA mid-term review, expected to take place at the end of the third year of the project, was
never undertaken. In addition, during this period, project responsibility in the World Bank was
transferred between Divisions, which also contributed to delays in project implementation.
Likewise, the frequent changes in PCs and IDA Task Managers, five different individuals in each
case, have had negative effects on project execution. The policy reform, private sector
development and market development and monitoring activities of ZAMPIP were subsumed
under ASIP and ZAMPIP stopped implementing this aspect of the project after ASIP credit
effectiveness.
-4-



13.  In the road sector, soon after project effectiveness, responsibility for rural roads was
transferred from the Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS) to MLGH', and this led to delay in
implementation until the new executing agency was settled down. When the new executing
agency was about to take full charge and provide guidance, a major sector-wide road program
preparation was launched. The government, through MLGH, embarked on the formulation and
implementation of an integrated road sector program, with the goal of facilitating economic
growth and diversification (particularly in agriculture) through appropriate investments in road
infrastructure and through sustainable system for the financing and management of the road
network. This program envisaged to reform the road sector policy and institutional framework,
including changes to the legal framework for road traffic management and strengthening and
refocusing the roles of sector institutions aimed at enhancing capacity, increasing efficiency of
the use of resources and improving planning and implementation. The idea was to bring all road
projects under a well integrated and coordinated system of management and to ensure that
systems of road sector financing, maintenance and rehabilitation is put in place and
implemented. This created an expectation that the ZAMIP project will be part of the ROADSIP
program and, therefore, MAFF paid little attention to the activities of the project.
14  In an attempt to foster private sector development, the MCTI formulated the EDP with the
support of IDA. The EDP has a lot of similarity with the private sector development component
of ZAMPIP and it was touted as a viable and sound replacement of the ZAMPIP private sector
development component. Similar to ZAMPIP, the EDP was designed to support the reform by
assisting the private sector to play key role in economic growth of the country. It has a multi-
purpose credit facility and a matching grant component to achieve it objectives. The major
difference between the two is, EDP is not targeted to agriculture and have components, such as
Matching Grant Fund, that were not envisaged under ZAMPIP.. IDA management felt that the
EDP can replace the ZAMPIP credit component and was eager to get the EDP effective than to
implement the credit component under the on-going ZAMPIP.
15. Because of the above new developments, the project was modified significantly in May
1997 following decisions to: (i) integrate the market development and monitoring component
into ASIP; (ii) close the line of credit and to transfer remaining funds to the road component; and
(iii) gradually integrate the road component into ROADSIP. . Consequently, from mid-1997,
ZAMPIP consisted only of the road component, but project management remained with MAFF
until early 1999.
Private Sector Development
16.  This comprised provision of: (i) short-term credit for working capital; (ii) term loans for
purchasing vehicles, hammer mills and establishing storage and workshop facilities; and (iii) TA
in business management for private co-operatives and commercial enterprises.
17. The short-term credit was to support the maize trade, which was being liberalized. Loan
operations began soon after the project became effective, following the finalization of subsidiary
loan agreements between BOZ and three PCBs. Disbursement commenced with a short-term
The district councils of the MLGH were already responsible for the maintenance of rural roads. However,
MLGH assumed total responsibility for rural roads development in 1995, and to this effect established a fuh4
fledged rural roads development unit within its organizational structure.
-5-



loan of K 3.1 billion (US$ 6.86 million), on-lent to large traders and millers to purchase maize
during the second half of 1993. This loan has played an important role in transferring the maize
trade from the public to the private sector, and without it, the maize market would probably have
become chaotic. During the maize marketing season of 1992/93, most co-operative unions had
already collapsed, and this coincided with a bumper maize harvest. Without project funds, these
factors would have seriously disrupted the maize market.
18. Demand for loans practically ceased in the following years due to high inflation and
interest rates, and depreciation of the Kwacha, making borrowing in local currency extremely
risky. According to the subsidiary loan agreement, the PCBs were to borrow project funds from
BOZ at its base-lending rate, which was then below the lending rates of the PCBs. In 1994,
however, the relationship between these interest rates had changed because BOZ raised its base-
lending rate above that of PCBs as part of its measures to control money supply. This brought
lending operation to a halt, and PCBs requested a review of the subsidiary loan agreement.
Accordingly, the agreement was reviewed and the DCA amended in October 1995.'
19. The changes to the subsidiary loan agreement allowed the PCBs to borrow from BOZ in
Kwacha or in foreign exchange at 80% of the base lending rate and at LIBOR, respectively, with
an option to repay in foreign exchange or in Kwacha at the prevailing exchange rate. The
maximum loan size was also raised from US$ 100,000 to US$ 500,000. These changes
encouraged PCBs to participate, and five PCBs had signed the revised subsidiary loan agreement
with BOZ at the end of 1996, and a further three in early 1997. These changes, and the fall of
BOZ base lending rate below the commercial lending rate, stimulated demand for credit, mainly
for medium-term loans. By mid-1997, thirteen such loans, valued at US$ 4.05 million, had been
approved to borrowers involved in food processing, grain storage, and the production of coffee,
flowers and cotton. All term loans were for a period of three years, without regard for the nature
of the activity or the gestation period, thus endangering loan repayment capacity of some
borrowers. No loans were provided for vehicle purchase or for farm rehabilitation, as anticipated
at appraisal.
20. Due to the decline in lending of project funds from 1994 to 1996, IDA decided to close the
line of credit in mid-1997 and to transfer remaining funds to the road component. Additional
reasons for this decision were (i) formulation of a private sector development/ credit project, the
Enterprise Development Project, which became effective in March 1998, and (ii) satisfactory
progress of the rural road component, at that time. AfDB also cancelled its line of credit and
transferred the funds to another on-going project in the country.
21. Paradoxically, the cancellation of the line of credit coincided with an increased demand for
loans. At the time of cancellation, loan applications more than US$ 6.0 million were awaiting
final approval by $OZ, and a larger volume was being processed by PCBs for submission to
BOZ. The closure of the line of credit interrupted the momentum finally gained, and it is taking
time to revive it under the Enterprise Development Project. At the time, it was believed that
borrowers would easily redirect their demands towards this new project, underestimating the
difficulties caused by the abrupt closure of the line of credit under ZAMPIP. Some of the
The revised agreement between BOZ and PCBs was only signed in July 1996 due to delayed communication oa-
the amendments by MOF or PIU to BOZ and PCBs.
-6-



borrowers involved in export crops were financed by an agricultural export promotion project,
supported by the European Investment Bank, but those dealing in non-export crops could not
access this facility. The implementation of the EDP was also significantly delayed and the multi-
purpose credit facility was not accessible to potential borrowers until 1999.
22. Moreover, PCBs did not access the project's revolving fund, which has been accumulating
through loan repayments, due to lack of information. This fund, now amounting to about
K 4 billion, remains unutilized, and its value is decreasing continuously in foreign exchange
terms. BOZ has not attempted to protect the value of this fund either by converting it into
foreign exchange or lending it in Kwacha. PCBs reported that they were not aware that they
could access the revolving fund. The availability of the revolving fund has not been advertised,
and BOZ belatedly started this in 1999 when the project was closing.
23.  The provision of TA, on loan basis, to private cooperatives and enterprises was not
implemented because MOF was not able to sign loan agreements with private enterprises. At
appraisal, it was anticipated that the MOF would provide interest free loan to private enterprises,
after having signed a loan agreement with them. MOF was inappropriately designated as the
implementing agency for this component, as the signing of subsidiary loan agreements with
private enterprises was not in line with the Ministry's rules. Yet, such an agreement was made a
condition for disbursement for this TA.
Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
24.  Through a Project Preparation Facility by IDA, a road survey in the three project provinces
was completed before the project became effective. In spite of this, road rehabilitation did not
commence until the end of 1995 mainly due to an institutional change in responsibility for rural
roads from the Ministry of Works and Supply to MLGH, and delay in fulfilling the DCA
conditions for project disbursement, namely, the preparation of a policy statement on rural roads.
Although the uncertainty about institutional responsibility for rural roads was recognized at
appraisal, the issue was not resolved conclusively before effectiveness.
25. As appraised, the road component was expected to rehabilitate a total of 1,000 km of roads,
of which 150 km were intended for emergency repairs of critical road segments, and the
remainder 850 km were to be fully rehabilitated through labor-based contracts. Moreover, the
project proposed to train 18 local contractors in labor-based techniques of road rehabilitation and
maintenance. During implementation, a first phase road program consisting of 550 km of
complete rehabilitation was prepared by consultants, and awarded to six road contractors. The
concept of emergency repairs was abandoned in favor of full rehabilitation, and the use of
labor-based technology was modified to include machine-based technology due to the lack of
contractors available to undertake works on the scale required. The first phase road
rehabilitation program started in January 1996 and was successfully completed in December
1997.
26.  Although the rehabilitation work under the first phase road program began late, it was
accomplished relatively quickly, in contrast to the credit component which was stalled at that
time. Hence, GRZ and IDA decided to transfer funds from the credit to the road component in
order to maintain the momentum gained in rehabilitating rural roads. A second phase road
-7-



program was, therefore, prepared, consisting of the rehabilitation of 240 km of roads in Luapula
and Northern Provinces'; training of 36 labor-based maintenance contractors and six road
rehabilitation contractors; training of 24 works supervisors in district councils; and procurement
of equipment for the labor-based rehabilitation contractors (Appendix B).
27.  Consultants prepared the design of the phase-two road rehabilitation in Luapula and
Northern Provinces, 120 km in each Province, and procurement of civil works was advertised in
May 1998. However, contracts could not be awarded because the tender evaluation completed
by MAFF was not acceptable to Zambian National Tender Board (ZNTB) and the ZNTB
recommendation was not acceptable to IDA. IDA, after careful review of the
submissions/proposals made by the bidders and the evaluation reports of MAFF and that of
ZNTB, concluded that the recommendation for the award of contract is inconsistent with the bid
document and requested re-evaluation of the bids, or re-tendering of the civil work again. In the
meantime, the credit closing date approached and it was decided that the package be reviewed
under ROADSIP. Under ROADSIP, the bids were re-evaluated and IDA was able to issue no
objection to four lots of civil works and one engineering supervision contract with a total value
of US$4.0 million.
28. Contractors' training program was also not completed, due to unwarranted delays in the
flow of funds. In November 1997, a three-month training course for the first group of labor-
based road maintenance contractors started at the Roads Training School (RTS) in Lusaka. Two
other groups were to follow successively, but due to slow payment, RTS had to interrupt the
training program several times, delaying completion until March 1999. By this time, 44
contractors and 15 works supervisors had received classroom training, but missed the
opportunity to obtain on-the-job application of their training through trail contracts, as envisaged
under the program. Considering that training costs were 100% reimbursable by IDA, the delays
in payments could only be attributed to mismanagement. It has been agreed that the on-the-job
training will be carried out under ROADSIP. Due to the delays, the project did not begin the
training program for road rehabilitation contractors, but candidates have been selected and
suitable equipment has been imported. Class room training program not completed under
ZAMPIP will now be implemented under the ROADSIP and contractors may participate in the
trial contracts provided the ROADSIP signs the addendum to the original contract with the
Roads Training School at the beginning of 2000.
Market Development and Monitoring
29. This component comprised two activities: (i) establishment of a market information
system, and (ii) improvements in standards and grading of agricultural inputs and outputs. The
market information system was removed from the project because implementation of a new
project, the MMAP, had started in early 1993 with assistance from FAO/Government of the
Netherlands. MMAP had similar objectives to ZAMPIP, and established an Agricultural Market
Information Center (AMIC) within MAFF. Since its inception AMIC has been involved in the
collection, analysis and dissemination of market-related information. When MMAP's support
ended in June 1997, AMIC was integrated into ASIP, and is now operating as a unit of MAFF.
In mid-1997, the road component was modified to expand its coverage countrywide.
-8-



30. Regrettably, the establishment of grades and standards for agricultural inputs and outputs
under ZABS was not implemented. This was mainly due to the delay in securing a laboratory
building to house the equipment to be provided under the project. The PIU decided that a
suitable building was a prerequisite to the procurement of equipment and materials, and
recruitment of TA personnel. As ZABS failed to secure a building, the component stalled, and in
mid-1 997 was transferred to ASIP to be implemented under its 'Standards Sub-program'.
Policy Reform Package
31. Most of the policy reform targets had been met. These included liberalizing markets for
agricultural inputs and outputs; removing price controls on agricultural outputs, particularly,
maize and agricultural inputs; removal of subsidies on agricultural commodities, transport,
inputs, etc., and providing a new legal framework for the cooperative movement. Soon after the
project started, the remaining reform objectives were achieved, including elimination of the
transport subsidy on maize, liberalization of the import and export of maize, and privatization of
maize milling. One area where there has been policy backtracking is in the area of fertilizer
importation and distribution, where the government continues to intervene on grounds that the
private sector has failed to fill the vacuum created as a result of the Government withdrawal.
Technical Assistance and Training
32. As designed, the project should have benefited from substantial TA inputs, but this did not
materialize for a number of reasons. The TA for the private sector's business support was not
implemented because MOF failed to enter business dealings with the private sector (para. 22).
The TA for marketing development was no longer required after this was taken up under
MMAP. The long-term TA envisaged for rural roads was also not needed, because the
establishment of provincial rural road units under the Ministry of Works and Supply, for which
the TA was provided, became unnecessary with the transfer of the component to MLGH. The
most important consultancies utilized under the project were: (i) the engineering supervision for
rural roads, which provided satisfactory professional services in overseeing the rehabilitation of
550 km of rural roads; (ii) the Project Co-ordinator (June 1994 to May 1996) and the Project
Engineer (August 1995 to September 1999), who have both performed well.
33. ZAMPIP's main training program took place within the rural road component (para. 27).
The project also funded a study tour in a few African countries to learn from their experience in
agricultural marketing and labor-based rural road programs. Most of the market-related training
and studies, envisaged under the project, were provided outside the project under MMAP.
Project Organization and Management
34. Project management was characterized by an anomalous arrangement whereby the PIU of
MAFF would coordinate all implementation activities, but there was no forum for the
implementing agencies to discuss, plan and determine project implementation policy. The
anomaly arises from the fact that the PIU's authority was not fully recognized by all the
implementing agencies. The SAR states that each implementing agency will be responsible for
planning, execution and reporting of their respective components and that implementation of
each component will be independent. To stress the PIU's limited responsibility, the SAR points-
-9-



out that "successful implementation of each component will not depend on the coordinating role
of PIU". Yet it was expected that each agency would cooperate with the PIU, without
acknowledging the need for a policy level committee to deliberate periodically on project
matters.
35. The lack of such a body appears to have reduced the sense of component ownership by
other ministries, as the PIU (in MAFF) remained the focal point for all communication with
IDA, for the flow of funds and procurement. In order to facilitate coordination with the MLGH,
Roads Department, the Project Road Engineer was assigned to physically move to the Road
Department, carry the technical work with the Department and liaise with the MAFF for
administrative and financial matters. After the non-road components were integrated into ASIP,
the project became effectively a 'road' project, yet management remained under MAFF until
early 1999, when it was officially transferred to MLGH. The failure to complete the second
phase road program is mainly due to poor project management, and lack of communication
between PIU and MLGH. PIU's lax management worsened after ASIP became operational, and
was characterized by delayed replenishment of project accounts, irregular flow of funds, delays
in direct payments to suppliers and service providers, and delays in making withdrawal
applications to IDA. PIU's difficulties were further aggravated by inefficiencies in MAFF units
concerned with procurement, financial management and accounting.
36. The PIU had a slow start, operating under an economist seconded from MAFF, until a
full-time PC (consultant) was appointed in June 1994, after which PIU performance improved
rapidly. However, this was short-lived because, following the PC's resignation after two years of
service, MAFF implemented a new structure that abolished all PIUs and reverted the
responsibility of projected management to departments and branches within the new structure.
Under the new arrangement, the project finance was under the Financial Management Unit,
procurement under the Procurement and Supplies Unit and overall follow-up of the project was
under the Infrastructure and Market Development Branch of MAFF. Officers in the Branch were
assigned to follow up the project as PC and, as civil servants, these officers did not receive the
financial incentive, which had motivated the former PCs, nor were they of sufficient seniority
and experience to assume a major coordination responsibility. As a result, the performance of
the PIU (vis-A-vis ZAMPIP) soon deteriorated. Moreover, ZAMPIP had at least five different
PCs.
37. Another management shortcoming has been the failure to establish a monitoring and
evaluation system in line with project proposals, to monitor activities and evaluate their outcome.
Consequently, there is insufficient documentation of project activities, rendering the evaluation
of project impact difficult.
Procurement
38. The major procurement items under the project were all within the road component, and
comprised the first and second phase road rehabilitation contracts, and equipment for training
and subsequent use by local contractors in labor-based roadwork. While no difficulty was
experienced in awarding contracts for the first phase road program, serious problems arose in the
case of the second one. This was because the Zambia National Tender Board did not accept the
initial evaluation made by the project, and made alternative suggestions, which in turn were not
-10-



acceptable to IDA. Resolution of these problems took about eight months, hence aggravating the
delay in finalizing plans and preventing implementation before the project closing date.
Procurement of training equipment was also delayed due to late payment to the suppliers by
MAFF.
Project Costs and Financing
39. Total project costs amounted to US$ 24.36 million, equivalent to about 36% of appraisal
estimates. The lower costs were mainly due to major changes introduced to the project, which
entailed the transfer of components and donor funds to other projects. Total IDA disbursement
amounted to US$ 21.11 million (64% of the credit) and about US$ 12.71 million remain
undisbursed. IDA financed 87% of the total costs, and GRZ the remainingl3%.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40. Project sustainability can be discussed in the context of the limited accomplishment of the
project, or the extent to which initiatives under the project are being followed-up by public or
private sector initiatives and the sustainability of the follow on initiatives. In terms of
sustainability of the limited activities carried out by the project, it is likely that most will be
sustainable. Under the private sector development component, although some borrowers have
expressed concern about the inflexibility of the medium-term loans and some have requested
rescheduling of loan repayments, most production and processing enterprises supported by the
project are believed to be sustainable ventures. The sustainability of the roads component of the
project is uncertain, as the maintenance and rehabilitation of roads, as well as the funding
mechanisms, falls within the policy framework that is adopted and implemented under the
ROADSIP, which is not yet tested. The policy reform that took place over the years is also
likely to be sustainable and there is very little risk of reversal in many of the areas.
41. While it is common to see successor operation to a completed project, the ZAMPIP is
unusual in that three projects that virtually replaces it were prepared and implemented before
project completion. The objective's of these new projects were similar to that of the ZAMPIP
and, therefore, the project is being sustained through public and private sector intervention and it
is very likely that his will be sustained given the kind of preparatory work done to ensure the
sustainability of all the three follow on projects that are on-going.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
42. The Bank's decision to assist GRZ in the implementation of the economic reform program
in the agricultural sector was a sensible initiative, which has led to a major reduction in public
sector involvement in marketing and processing of agricultural commodities. The Bank has also
been pro-active in identifying emerging issues and designing new programs/projects that are
responsive to the demands of the complex and dynamic situations that were emerging in Zambia.
The sector approach was implemented in the health, education, road, and agriculture sectors.
The Enterprise Development Project was also implemented to address issues pertaining to
financial sector reform and financial services. All these are rather positive actions by the Bank
-11-



and the Government, although it had, by necessity, to disrupt the implementation of individual
on-going projects in each sector, such as ZAMPIP. In spite of this, however, overall Bank
performance has been partially satisfactory. This rating would have been judged deficient had it
not been for IDA's pro-activity in designing and implementing new and comprehensive programs
in the areas discussed above, and achievements in introducing the policy reform measures and
the relatively satisfactory work done in the few areas where the project was implemented. The
main reasons for the partially satisfactory rating are weaknesses in project design (para. 7),
particularly, in the organization and management arrangements for the project, lack of follow-up
actions in response to changes that took place in the road sector and inadequate project
supervision, although supervision performance had improved within the last two years of the
project. There were only eight supervision missions during the six years of implementation, very
low by IDA standards, and the composition of specialists was inappropriate. For instance, only
three of these missions included a road engineer (two in 1997 and one in 1998), although rural
road rehabilitation was an important component. The fact that ASIP was expected to embrace all
MAFF activities, including ZAMPIP, does not justify the neglect of the project. Until ZAMPIP's
components were formally incorporated into ASIP in 1997, the project deserved supervision and
mid-term review as is normally granted to any self-standing project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
43. The Borrower's determined implementation of the economic reform program in the initial
years of the project was commendable. Equally, GRZ's readiness to resolve difficulties relating
to the credit component helped to improve the flow of funds. However, in spite of these
accomplishments, overall performance of the Borrower has also been deficient, largely because
GRZ's commitment to the project has progressively declined with the formulation and
implementation of ASIP. This reduced commitment was exhibited by the elimination of the post
of an independent PC, and secondment of several MAFF officials, with little managerial
experience to act as PCs. Moreover, the continuous difficulty in the flow of funds, particularly
in the final two years, was a reflection of MAFF's declining interest in the project. Due to these
shortcomings, the second phase road program was not implemented. GRZ should have
transferred project responsibility to MLGH when ZAMPIP became effectively a "road" project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44. The project has met only a limited part of its objectives. As already noted, most project
components were either transferred to other new projects (ASIP, ROADSIP, EDP), or
substantially modified during the course of implementation, with consequent effects on project
outcome. The establishment of a market-based economy, with a liberalized agricultural sector,
has largely been achieved. However, this has not led to sustained and increased agricultural
production, due to unseasonable weather conditions in the last few years. Many farmers,
particularly small farmers, have yet to discern any tangible benefits. The policy packages
introduced by the project has resulted in greater private sector participation, including increased
share of agriculture in total export earnings and diversification of production. Albeit limited, the
credit extended under the project should contribute to increased agricultural production and
-12-



foreign exchange earnings. The reduced road rehabilitation program is believed to have
improved vehicle access in some parts of the three provinces. However, there are no data on the
volume and type of traffic using the project's roads, or the effect of road improvements on
transport charges and vehicle operating costs. At completion, the project was a totally different
and modest one, and the overall outcome compared to what had been planned is unsatisfactory.
Environmentally, the project impact has been limited; being confined to existing roads, and
having obliged contractors to reinstate borrow areas used for excavation of gravel.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
45. As stated in earlier paragraphs, the activities/components of ZAMPIP are being supported
by on-going projects.. The maintenance of roads improved by the project is now the
responsibility of the district councils. Since the roads were rehabilitated 2-3 years ago, there has
been no maintenance carried out, and it is estimated that at least one third are now in urgent need
of maintenance. These roads are expected to be maintained under ROADSIP, but this does not
provide any assurance that resources for maintenance will continue. The fate of the project's
investments in rural roads will depend on ROADSIP's future program for maintaining rural
roads. EDP is supposed to provide credit facility for enterprises that qualify, but how much the
agriculture sector will benefit from the new operation is hard to tell. ASIP is pursuing the policy
dialogue with Government, strengthening of the policy analytic capacity of the government and
market information and monitoring. As these projects end, there is a need to review the
appropriateness of a follow on operations.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
46. The main lessons that can be drawn from the implementation experience of the project are:
-    In projects where there are several implementing agencies, it is appropriate to
have an inter-ministerial coordinating body, in which all the implementing
agencies are represented, to discuss implementation progress and issues. The
lack of such an arrangement was one of the main causes for the poor
implementation of ZAMPIP.
-   Unilateral closing of a project component, as experienced with the line of
credit, is not advisable. This discourages both PCBs and borrowers alike from
dealing with similar credit schemes in the future, as they tend to lose
confidence in the institutions.
-   Sufficient number of senior, competent, motivated, and project-specific staff
are required for effective implementation of a project. Staff and other changes,
which diffuse and reduce responsibilities for project management, will have an
adverse effect on project performance. The project has suffered from
unsatisfactory management by MAFF, and to a lesser extent, MLGH in
ensuring a timely and adequate flow of funds to implement the project.
-13-



Continuity in project management and in project supervision, in the side of the
Bank, is also very critical, and was lacking under this project.
Setting up a project monitoring and evaluation system and maintaining the
system through out the project is critical in order to enable project management
to check and assess implementation. The neglect by the project in setting up
the monitoring and evaluation system as envisaged has resulted in poor
assessment of implementation progress and, hindered assessment of impact.
Road maintenance design should include sufficient resources and practical
arrangements for maintenance and rehabilitation, and should address the issue
of how these resources will be generated (or sustained) after project
completion. Without assured maintenance, the pre-project situation of severe
neglect will recur within a few years, as observed under the project.
When decisions to implement national programs, instead of projects, is made, it
is appropriate to fold existing self-standing projects into the national program
within a reasonable period of time, to avoid the kind of neglect the ZAMPIP
project encountered.
-14-



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
()           (4)          (1            (4)
Macro policies                      ED                                      Li[
Sector policies                      E                         Z            LI]
Financial objectives                  l           E            E               ]
Institutional development           [j                        Ell 
Physical objectives                 [            E            El 
Poverty reduction                     Fl           I           E 
Gender issues                       E             E            E            E
Other social objectives              L            E            E               ]
Environmental objectives            []                         El           E9
Public sector management            El l                       El            El
Private sector development          [IE                                       El
Other (specify)                     E             E            E             E
B. Project sustainability           Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(4)          (4)         (0
Highly
C. Bank performance                 satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(4)          (i)          (v)
Identification                    E            E            E
Preparation assistance           El           El            El
Appraisal                         E            E            E
Supervision                       E              l         E
Overall, Bank performance is partially satisfactory for reasons explained in the text.
-15-



Highly
D. Borrower performance           Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(0           (v)         ()
Preparation                                  [             ZI
Implementation                   7           E1 1
Covenant compliance              [1           2            [1]
Operation (if applicable)        E             n            E
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
- 16- 



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title               Purpose                   Year of             Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Coffee 11 Project   Increase coffee production through      1986        Completed
the provision of modern technology
and credit
Following operations
1. Agricultural Sector  Improving household food security,     1995        On-going
Investment Program      promoting better use of natural
resources, generating employment
and income, and increasing export
earnings
2. Enterprise           Private sector modernization and       1997        On-going
Development Project     development by supporting
enterprises and financial
intermediaries
3. Road Sector          Improving management in the road       1997        On-going
Investment Program      sector, facilitate rehabilitation and
proper maintenance of roads
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                      Oct.lNov. 1990          Oct./Nov. 1990
Preparation                                         Jan./Feb. 1991          Jan./Feb. 1991
Pre-Appraisal                                      Sept./Oct. 1991          Sept./Oct. 1991
Appraisal                                           Jan./Feb. 1992          Jan./Feb. 1992
Negotiations                                        May 18, 1992           July 17-26, 1992
Board presentation                                   Sept. 8, 1992           Sept. 8, 1992
Signing                                             Dec. 28, 1992            Dec. 28, 1992
Effectiveness                                       May 28, 1993             May 28, 1993
Midterm review                                        Mid-1996              Not carried out
Project completion                                  June 30, 1999            June 30, 1999
Loan closing                                         June 30, 1999            June 30, 1999
-17-



TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY 93  FY 94  FY 95  FY 96  FY 97  FY 98  FY 99  FY 00
Appraisal estimate         2.00    8.00   16.00   22.00   28.00   31.00   33.00       -
Actual                     0.79    7.63    8.61   11.77   18.93   20.24   21.04       21.11
Actual as % of estimate    40%     95%      54%     54%     68%     65%      64%
Date of final disbursement               Disbursement not yet closed
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS    Unit         Estimated              Actual
RURAL ROADS
Road Study (priority roads)         km              400-500                      569
Rehabilitation of Roads (Phase I)   km                  500                      550
Rehabilitation of Roads (Phase II)  Km                  240                        0
Rehabilitation Contractor Training  Cntr.                 6                        0
Maintenance (labor-based) Contractor  Cntr.              36                       36
Training
Works Supervisors                   Supr.                24                       16
Labor based Trail Contracts         km                  120                        0
Technical Assistance
Project Engineer                  p/m         not specified                     50
Study Tour "' ( 2 weeks)            pers        not specified                      4
Seminar (Ghana - 3 days)            pers        not specified                      1
Short Course (UK - one week)        pers        not specified                      1
Training Courses (3x3 months each)    pers      not specified                   15-24
Rehabilitation Equipment bl         set                   6                        6
Other Activities
Short-Term Credit
Traders                          NO                  991                       23
Fertilizer Traders               No                  630                        0
Medium Term Credit
Truck Purchase                    No                  130                        0
Miscellaneous Loans               No          not specified                     13
Notes:
a/ Study tour to Lesotho, Kenya and Uganda to learn about labor-based approaches tcroadworks
b/ Equipment for labor-based road rehabilitation contractors; each set comprises: one 4WD doublecab, two tractors, a roller, trailer, towed
water tanker with pump, and culvert rings. An additional 2WDdoublecab was purchased for district council supervision
-18-



TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
L   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                Estimated                         Actual
NOT APPLICABLE
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined         Status             Impact of study
1. Rural Roads Survey    Identify first year road   Completed under    The Phase one project roads
program                    PPF 1992           were identified by this study
2. Maize Export Study    Determine Zambia's export   Completed under   Indicated potential export
opportunities              MMAP in 1994       markets
3. Assessment of the    Identify main constraints of   Completed in 1996   Study recommendations
constraints to the      disbursing the credit                          have been used to accelerate
disbursement of         component                                      credit disbursement
ZAMPIP funds
-19-



TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (US$ THOUSAND)
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest
estimates
Item                         Local       Foreign       Total       Total
costs       costs
1. Private Sector            20,448     10,520        30,968      10,847
Development
2. Rural Roads Rehabilitation  3,620     10,915       14,535      10,035
and Maintenance
3. Market Development and        90       1,590        1,680       1,547
Monitoring
4. Technical Assistance       3,180       3,680        6,860         199
Physical Contingencies          373       1,212        1,585
Price Contingencies           9,623       2,744       12,372           -
Other Costs a/                    -           -            -       1,732
TOTAL                       37,334      30,666       68,000      24,360
' Consists of GRZ recurrent costs.
-20-



TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest
estimate
Source                     Local    Foreign     Total           Total
costs     costs
IDA                           9.6      23.4       33.0       21.11
ADB                           5.2       7.3       12.5           a/
GRZ                          15.5        -        15.5        3.25
Commercial Banks              3.5        -         3.5            b
Beneficiaries                 3.5        -         3.5           b/
TOTAL                        37.3      30.7       68.0       24.36
a/ ADB has financed the salary of the Project Coordinator for about two years, but
no details were available.
bl No details are available.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The project was economically justified and considered viable if it would be implemented more or less as
designed. At appraisal, an economic rate of return (ERR) of 24% was calculated for the project. At
completion, the project that emerged was a totally different one: only half of the road component and a
small fraction of the private sector development program were implemented. The marketing component
was transferred to another project. Most of the project benefits were expected to accrue from the private
sector development program, particularly from improved transportation, which was partially achieved
under the project. In fact, the purchase of the vehicles expected under the private sector development
program has not taken place, indicating either lack of demand or the inaccessibility of the credit facility
to potential borrowers. All these facts indicate that the economic impact envisaged at appraisal has not
been achieved. On the other hand, it is difficult to recalculate the ERR of the project at project
completion, because there is no information that enables such calculation. The monitoring and
evaluation system envisaged under the project was not established.
-21 -



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original   Revised
Agreement    Section   Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment               Description of covenant
type    status     date        date                                                    Comments
CA text      3.07 (a)       4        NC      01/31/93             Appoint short-term consultants through the project
implementation to assist with M&E
CA text      3.07 (b)       4         C      03/31/93             Submit to IDA an M&E plan
CA text      3.08           3         C      06/30/94             Submit to IDA copy of the maize export report   Done under the MMA
CA text      3.09           7         C       1993/94             Liberalize export marketing of maize
CA text      3.10           7         C      01/31/93             Ensure that INDECO mills are allowed to
independently set the prices of maize meal
CA text      3.11            7        C      10/31/92             Remove price controls on domestic. produced maize
CA text      4.01            1       CD       End of              The borrower shall fumish the Association an audit   Consistently delayed
September             report for the project no later than nine months after
of each year          the end of each fiscal year
CA text      4.03            5        C       Every               Submit to IDA quarterly reports of interest rates,
quarter             ensure lending rates by the PCBs are positive
CA text      4.04            7        C      12/31/93             GRZ shall decontrol interest rates at all levels
CA Schedule  (2) (b) (i)     5        C                           As a condition for disbursement, the borrower has to   RRU not needed after
establish RRU and appointed an engineer in the  transfer of responsibili
provincial offices                             to MLGH and creation
of Road Department.
CA Schedule  (2) (b) (iii)  5         C                           As a condition for disbursement, the Borrower has to
submit to the Association a rural road policy statement
CA Schedule  (2) (b) (iv)    5        C                           As a condition for disbursement, the Borrower has to
submit to the Association detailed program and budget
for the first year of the project
CA Schedule  (2) (c)         5        C                           As a condition for disbursement, the Borrower has to
insure that PCBs shall enter into subsidiary loan
agreement with GOZ
CA Schedule  (2) (d) (i)     3        C                           As a condition for disbursement, the Borrower has to
submit to the Association signed TA agreement with
marketing associations, cooperatives or mills
CA Schedule  (2) (d) (ii)   7         C                           As a condition for disbursement, the Borrower has to
provide evidence that amendments satisfactory to the
Association to the Agricultural Marketing Act 1989
have been enacted
CA Schedule  (2) (d) (iii)  7         C                           As a condition for disbursement, the Borrower has to
provide evidence satisfactory to the Association that
cooperatives will be allowed to operate without
govemment interference
Covenant Types                                         Present Status
I Accounts/audit                                       C = Complied with
2 Counterpart funding                                  CD = Compliance after Delay
3 Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency  NC = Not Complied with
4 Monitoring, review and reporting                     CP = Complied with Partially
5 Implementation
6 Financial
7 Policy actions
-22-



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There was compliance with the Applicable Operational Manual Statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                      Planned                  Revised                Actual'
project cycle
Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$       Weeks    US$(000)
Preparation to                          NA                       NA         74.8       44.7
Appraisal
Appraisal and lending                   NA                       NA         85        230
development
Negotiations through                    NA                       NA          12.8      36
Board approval
Supervision                             NA                       NA         85.3      361.3
Completion                              NA                       NA        NA          76.3
TOTAL                                                                     257.9     748.3
1) Including travel costs (direct costs)
NA= Not available-not recorded in SAP/FACT System
-23-






TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS'
Performance rating w
Stpge of                     Number                   Specialized    Impkementati    Develop-
project cycle      Month/        of        Days in       staff skills       on            ment         Types of
Year      persons      field      represented         status       objectives     problems d
Preparation de        01-02/9 l
Pre-appraisal         09-10/91
Appraisal             01-02/92        7          126       C, E, E, E, E,
EN, EN
Supervision 1         04/29/93        1          21        E                     S              S          PM, CF, L
Supervision 2         08/30/93        2          38        AS, E                 S              S          PM, CF, L
Supervision 3         06/26/94        2          28        AS, E                 S              5             PM
Supervision 4         11/14/94        2          34        E, F                  S       X                   PM, L
Supervision 5         06/15/95        2          20        E, F                  5              5             PM
Supervision 6         04-05/97        3          42        E, E, EN              U              S         CF, FC, PM
Supervision 7         11/97           2          28        E, EN                 S              S
Supervision 8         09/98           1           7        EN                    U              S             NR
Supervision 9         02-03/99        3          66        AS, E, F              U              S             NR
Completion            09/99           2          28        E, EN                N.A            N.A.          N.A.
AS = Agricultural Services Specialist; C  Credit Specialist; E = Economist; EN = ERgineer; F = Financial Analyst
W S = Satisfactory; HS = Highly Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HU =Highly Unsatisfactory; NR = Not Rated; N.A. = Not Applicable
" CF = Counterpart Funds; FC = Financial Covenants; PM = Project Management; L = Legal Covenants; NR = Not Rated
"'Prepared by the FAO/WB Cooperative Program
dOnly partial supervision by a ROADSIP mission
In addition to these official or full supervision missions, a number of up-dating exercises were carried out
through the preparation of portfolio status update.
-24-



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT
(Cr. 2422-ZA)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
-25-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cr. 2422-ZA
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) visited Zambia over the
period September 21 to October 5, 1999 to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
for the Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Infrastructure Project (ZAMPIP). The
mission comprised Messrs. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, CP) and Tim
Jackson (Road Engineer, Consultant).
2.    The mission worked with the two main implementing agencies, the Ministries of
Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) and Local Government and Housing (MLGH), and also
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Bank of Zambia (BOZ), and participating commercial
banks (PCBs). Field visits were made to inspect roads rehabilitated by the project in Central,
Lusaka and Southern provinces, and to hold discussions with district council officials, transport
operators, traders and farmers.
3.    The mission acknowledges receipt from the Government of draft reports on credit and
roads, as a contribution towards the ICR and this aide memoire. The mission wishes to express
its appreciation to the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) for the co-operation
extended throughout its stay. Preliminary findings and conclusions on the implementation of the
project are presented below, which are subject to confirmation by IDA management.
B. BACKGROUND
4.    When GRZ decided to introduce market-oriented economic reforms in the late eighties, it
became apparent that a number of support programs were needed to ensure success. Within
agriculture, the public sector dominated activities in marketing agricultural inputs and outputs,
and processing of agricultural commodities. These activities were singled out for special
interventions to create suitable conditions for private sector participation.  ZAMPIP was
conceptualized within this context, and aimed to increase agricultural production by supporting
the reform program. To this end, the project proposed assistance in reforming the high y
-26-



regulated financial sector, and inefficient maize marketing, fertilizer distribution, maize milling
and rural transportation systems. Project components comprised:
-   Private Sector Development, consisting of the provision of investment and
working capital credit for private enterprises, traders, farmers, road contractors,
and road transport operators. This support was expected to enhance private
sector participation in agricultural input and output marketing, maize milling
and rural transport. Newly privatized businesses were also to receive technical
assistance (TA) in corporate management.
-   Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance, whose main thrust was to
rehabilitate 1,000 km of rural roads and to strengthen road maintenance
capacity in Southern, Lusaka and Central provinces.
-   Market Development and Monitoring, consisting of the collection, analysis
and dissemination of market information; provision of training to individual
private traders; and establishment and monitoring of standards and grading for
maize, animal feed and other agricultural commodities.
-   Technical Assistance to support implementation of the above components.
-   Policy Reform Package to expedite policy reforms already initiated, and
ensure, in particular, the decontrol of maize prices, elimination of maize
marketing subsidies, and privatization of maize mills.
5.    The project, to be implemented over six years, was estimated to cost US$ 68.0 million
(K 8,500 million), of which foreign exchange comprised about 45%. Some 51% of project costs
were to be absorbed by the private sector development component, and 30% by the road
component. The project was to be financed as follows: 49% IDA, 18% AfDB, 23% GRZ, and
10% by commercial banks and beneficiaries.
6.    The project was to be implemented by several existing agencies including: the Roads
Department of the Ministry of Works and Supply for the road component; MOF for the TA in
business management for private enterprises; BOZ and PCBs for the credit component; Zambia
Bureau of Standards (ZABS) for standards and grading; and MAFF for market development,
monitoring and training. These implementing agencies were to be responsible for planning,
execution, monitoring and reporting for their respective components. Co-ordination of project
implementation was to be carried out by the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the
Planning Division of MAFF. It was envisaged that an experienced Project Co-ordinator (PC)
would be recruited as a consultant to head the PIU, and provide co-ordination, reporting,
monitoring and financial control. The PC was to be supported by an economist, an accountant
and other support staff. No inter-agency co-ordination body was foreseen under the project.
7.    The project was approved on September 8, 1992, signed on December 28, 1992, and
declared effective on May 28, 1993.
-27-



C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
GENERAL
8.    Project start-up activities coincided with important political and economic changes in the
country, including the restructuring of Government. It also coincided with the conceptualization
and preparation of a major agricultural sector development program by MAFF and IDA, the
Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP). These events have greatly influenced project
implementation and performance. For instance, responsibility for rural roads was transferred
from the Ministry of Works and Supply to MLGH in November 1995, which entailed the
amendment of the Development Credit Agreement, and delayed implementation until the new
agency was fully integrated into the project.
9.    Considerable uncertainty was also experienced with other components, when MAFF and
IDA suggested that non-road components be incorporated into ASIP. This was decided during
supervision in November 1994, whilst ASIP only became effective a year later, in December
1995. This signaled a diminished role for ZAMPIP, and reduced project identity. There was one
formal IDA supervision' mission during 1995 and no mission during 1996, although 5 informal
portfolio status updates were undertaken by the task teams during this period, and the mid-term
review, scheduled during 1996, was never undertaken. Moreover, project responsibility in the
World Bank was transferred between divisions during this period. This impaired project
momentum, already adversely affected by frequent changes in Project Coordinators and IDA
Task Managers.
10.  In May 1997, the market development and monitoring component was integrated into
ASIP. Simultaneously, the line of credit under the private sector development component was
closed, and undisbursed funds transferred to the road component. Private sector credit needs
were expected to be covered by the forthcoming Enterprise Development Project (Cr. 2955-ZA),
approved later that year, and declared effective in March 1998. Therefore, since mid-1997,
ZAMPIP activities were focused entirely on the road component, but project management
remained with the PIU in MAFF until early 1999. These arrangements have negatively affected
the road component, as MAFF staff lost interest and motivation, and MLGH felt little ownership
of the project.  The above points have resulted in difficult project implementation and
under-achievement, explained further in the following paragraphs.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
11.  In order to support private sector involvement in marketing agricultural inputs and
outputs, and processing agricultural commodities, the project proposed to lend to private
individuals and enterprises through PCBs, under the supervision of BOZ. Three types of
assistance were envisaged: (i) credit for working capital; (ii) term loans for purchasing vehicles,
hammer mills, and establishing storage and workshops; and (iii) provision of TA in corporate
management for private co-operatives and commercial enterprises.
However, staff of the resident mission and IDA Task Managers carried out routine follow-up activities.
-28-



12.   Soon after effectiveness, the project secured subsidiary loan agreements between BOZ
and three PCBs, enabling lending to beneficiaries. About K 3.1 billion (US$ 6.85 million) were
lent by the end of December 1993 to maize millers and traders for purchasing maize, effectively
substituting the co-operative unions, which had collapsed after the removal of subsidies. Maize
marketing would probably have become chaotic had project funds not been made available to
traders borrowing from commercial banks. This first year lending experience in 1992-93
coincided with a bumper maize harvest, and no guaranteed buying by co-operative unions, which
combined to increase pressure on maize marketing. Most borrowers were medium-to-large scale
operators, as small-scale traders could not access the credit line because of insufficient collateral
to secure loans. Demand for short-term borrowing practically ceased in the following years as
the Kwacha depreciated and interest rates escalated, making Kwacha loans extremely risky.
13.   Term lending in Kwacha was also slow to materialize because of the high risks associated
with Kwacha loans, and stringent money supply measures introduced by BOZ, which impaired
continuation of credit delivery. The project agreement required PCBs to borrow from BOZ at its
base lending rate, which was below the rate of PCBs. However, in 1994, the BOZ base rate rose
above that of PCBs, and this brought lending operations to a standstill. PCBs demanded a
review of the subsidiary loan agreement, which eventually took place in October 1995. The
agreed changes included: participation of all banks satisfying BOZ financial regulations;
allowing borrowing by PCBs at 80% of the BOZ base rate for Kwacha and at LIBOR for foreign
exchange; and increasing the maximum loan size from US$ 100,000 to US$ 500,000.
14.   These changes, and the fall of BOZ base rate below the commercial lending rate in 1995,
stimulated demand for credit under the term loans. By mid-1 997, thirteen such loans valued at
US$ 4.67 million had been approved and disbursed to borrowers involved in food processing,
grain storage, and the production of coffee, flowers and cotton.
15.  In mid-1997, GRZ and IDA decided to close the line of credit under ZAMPIP, and to
transfer remaining funds to the road component. AfDB also cancelled its line of credit and
transferred the funds to another ongoing project in the country.  Previous difficulties in
implementing this component were apparently the main reason for closing the credit. However,
at this time, demand for term loans had gained momentum. In addition to loans already
provided, a number of applications worth over US$ 6.0 million were awaiting final approval by
BOZ, which had to be turned down. The PCBs also reported the receipt of more applications as
the line of credit was closing. The closure of the credit has interrupted the momentum finally
gained, and it is taking time to revive it under the Enterprise Development Project. At the time,
it was believed that borrowers would easily re-direct their demands towards this new project,
underestimating their loss of confidence in the abrupt closure of the line of credit under
ZAMPIP. During this time, an agricultural export promotion project, supported by the European
Investment Bank, has given loans to some applicants involved in export crop production only.
16.   The provision of TA to private co-operatives and enterprises was not implemented
because MOF was not able to sign loan agreements with private enterprises. MOF was
inappropriately designated as the implementing agency for this component, as the signing of
subsidiary loan agreements with private enterprises was not in line with the Ministry's rules.
-29-



RURAL ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
17.    At project effectiveness, the rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance (RRRM)
component was the most advanced in terms of preparedness for implementation. This was
because IDA pre-project financing, through the provision of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF),
had enabled the completion of a survey in 1992, which had identified priority roads for
immediate rehabilitation. Despite this, road rehabilitation did not commence until the end of
1995 due to: (i) an institutional change in responsibility for rural roads from the Ministry of
Works and Supplies to MLGH; and (ii) a delay in fulfilling Development Credit Agreement
conditions for project disbursement, notably the preparation of a policy statement on feeder
roads. For these reasons, the first phase road rehabilitation program, comprising 550 km of road
rehabilitation, began in January 1996, and was completed two years later, in December 1997.
18.   During implementation, some adjustments were made to the RRRM component. Firstly,
the original proposal for emergency road repairs, comprising 150 km of 'spot' improvements to
critical bottlenecks, was replaced by full rehabilitation of the 550 km of priority roads identified
in the initial road survey. These priority roads, located in Central, Lusaka and Southern
provinces, varied in length from 20 to 130 km. Secondly, it was not possible to implement the
proposed labor-based rehabilitation of 850 km due to the non-availability of labor-based
contractors. Therefore, the first phase of road rehabilitation was executed by traditional
machine-based contractors, under the supervision of engineering consultants engaged by the
project. The majority of these contractors were foreign, working in partnership with local
companies. The rehabilitation works were completed efficiently, and to the required technical
standards.
19.  In order to reduce reliance on foreign contractors for roadworks, and enhance the local
contractor base, the project proposed the training of local contractors in labor-based road
technology. Hence, the second phase road rehabilitation program included: (i) rehabilitation of
240 km of roads in Luapula and Northern provinces, and (ii) training of 44 labor-based road
maintenance contractors and nine labor-based road rehabilitation contractors, as well as relevant
supervisors from the district councils. Classroom training for the road maintenance contractors
was carried out by the Road Training School (RTS) in Lusaka, in three batches, between
November 1997 and March 1999. Each training course was scheduled for three months, but
prolonged interruptions arose due to delays in payment to RTS, despite the fact that training
costs were 100% reimbursable by IDA. This classroom training should have been followed by
practical on-the-job training during trial contracts. However, due to the delays, these trial
contracts could not be implemented before the project closed.
20.   Nine contractors were selected for training in labor-based road rehabilitation.
Appropriate construction equipment was procured for training and subsequent transfer, on a hire
purchase basis, to six of the most successful contractors after completion of trial road
rehabilitation contracts. This training did not take place due to delay in procurement of
equipment necessary for training, and lack of funds to pay for the training course. For the same
reasons, the second phase road rehabilitation of 240 km in Luapula and Northern provinces was
not implemented. These delays were largely due to weaknesses in project managemerLt-
-30-



particularly in the final two years of the project. During this period, PIU had been largely
subsumed into ASIP, together with most project components, except rural roads. Because of
these shortcomings, the funds transferred in 1997 from the credit component to RRRM,
remained unutilized.
MARKET DEVELOPMENT AND MONITORING
21.   Two activities were to be established under this component: (i) a market information
system; and (ii) improvements in standards and grading of agricultural inputs and outputs. The
market information system was excluded from the project because implementation of a new
project, the Marketing Management and Assistance Project (MMAP), had started in early 1993
with assistance from FAO/Govermment of the Netherlands. MMAP had similar objectives to
ZAMPIP, and established an Agricultural Market Information Center (AMIC) within MAFF,
which has undertaken the collection, analysis and dissemination of market-related information.
When MMAP's support ended in June 1997, AMIC was integrated into ASIP, and is now fully
operational.
22.   Unfortunately, the establishment of grades and standards for agricultural inputs and
outputs under ZABS was not implemented. This was mainly due to the delay in securing a
laboratory building to house the equipment to be provided under the project. The PIU decided
that a suitable building was a prerequisite to procurement of equipment and materials, and
recruitment of TA personnel. As ZABS failed to secure a building, the component stalled, and in
mid-1997 was transferred to ASIP to be implemented under its 'Standards Sub-program'.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
23.   The project should have benefited from substantial TA inputs, which did not materialize
for a number of reasons. The TA for the private sector component was to provide business
management support to maize and fertilizer marketing enterprises. However, as mentioned
earlier (para 0), this could not be effected because MOF could not enter business dealings with
the private sector. The TA for marketing development was no longer required after this was
taken up under MMAP. The long-term TA envisaged for rural roads was also not needed,
because the establishment of provincial rural road units, for which the TA was provided, became
unnecessary.
24.   The most important consultancies utilized under the project were: (i) the engineering
supervision for rural roads, which provided satisfactory professional services in overseeing the
rehabilitation of 550 km of rural roads; (ii) the Project Co-ordinator (June 1994 to May 1996)
and the Project Engineer (August 1995 to September 1999), who have both performed well.
25.   ZAMPIP's main training program took place within the rural road component (para 19).
The project also funded a study tour in a few African countries to learn from their experience in
agricultural marketing and labor-based rural road programs. Most of the market-related training
and studies, envisaged under the project, were provided under MMAP.
-31-



POLICY REFORM PACKAGE
26.   By the time the project became effective, most of the policy reform targets had been met.
These included liberalizing price controls on maize and agricultural inputs, and removal of
subsidies on agricultural commodities. Soon after the project started, the remaining reform
objectives were achieved, including elimination of the transport subsidy on maize, liberalization
of the import and export of maize, and privatization of maize milling. All policy reform
priorities were attained during the early years of the project.
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
27.   Although the project was to be implemented by several agencies, there was no
mechanism for inter-agency co-ordination and management of the project. The PIU of MAFF
was given the overall responsibility for co-ordinating project implementation, and the PC
became answerable to this Ministry. This arrangement has hindered the emergence of a
policy-level management body that represents all implementing agencies. Such an entity would
have provided a forum for discussion and approval of agreed policies and work plans. The lack
of such a body appears to have reduced the sense of component ownership by other ministries, as
the PIU (in MAFF) remained the focal point for all communication with IDA, and the associated
flow of funds. After the non-road components were integrated into ASIP, the project effectively
became a 'road' project, yet management remained under MAFF until early 1999, when it was
officially transferred to MLGH. The failure to complete the second phase road program is
mainly attributable to poor project management, and lack of communication between PIU and
MLGH. Examples of PIU's lax management are cited as: delayed replenishment of project
accounts, irregular flow of counterpart funds, delays in direct payments to suppliers and service
providers, and delays in making withdrawal applications to IDA. PIU's difficulties were further
aggravated by inefficiencies in MAFF units concerned with procurement, financial management
and accounting.
28.   The PIU had a slow start, operating under an economist seconded from MAFF, until a
full-time PC (consultant) was appointed in June 1994, after which PIU performance improved
rapidly. However, this was short-lived because, following his resignation after two years of
service, MAFF decided to manage the project through its own staff, and a succession of
relatively junior staff were again seconded as PCs. As civil servants, these officers did not
receive the financial incentive, which had motivated the former PC, nor were they of sufficient
seniority and experience. As a result, the performance of the PIU (vis-a-vis ZAMPIP) soon
deteriorated. During implementation, ZAMPIP had at least five different PCs.
29.   Another management shortcoming has been the failure to establish a monitoring and
evaluation system in line with project proposals, to monitor activities and evaluate their outcome.
Therefore, there is insufficient documentation of project activities, rendering the evaluation of
project impact difficult.
-32-



PROCUREMENT
30.   The major procurement items under the project were all within the road component, and
comprised the first and second phase road rehabilitation contracts, and equipment for training
and subsequent use by local contractors in labor-based roadworks. While no difficulty was
experienced in awarding contracts for the first phase road program, serious problems arose in the
case of the second phase roads. This was because the Zambia National Tender Board had not
accepted the initial evaluation made by the project, and made alternative suggestions, which in
turn were not accepted by IDA. Resolution of these problems took about eight months, hence
aggravating the delay in finalizing plans and preventing implementation before the project
closing date. Procurement of training equipment was also delayed due to late payment to the
suppliers by PIU.
BORROWER AND IDA PERFORMANCE
31.   Overall, the performance of both GRZ and IDA was less than had been anticipated.
Firstly, GRZ commitment to the project appears to have progressively diminished during
implementation, as the formulation of ASIP progressed and became effective. Signs of reduced
commitment were: (i) the elimination of the post of an independent PC and other project-specific
PIU staff (e.g., the accountant); and (ii) delays in the provision of counterpart funds,
replenishment of project accounts and in the procurement of goods and services. GRZ should
have transferred project responsibility to MLGH when ZAMPIP effectively became a 'road'
project, to ensure this Ministry's commitment to the project. This would have improved the
performance of the road component, especially during the last two years of the project. On a
more positive note, GRZ's readiness to amend the Development Credit Agreement to resolve
implementation difficulties should be recognized. In particular, the flexibility shown by GRZ in
removing bottlenecks that emerged in the provision of credit, markedly improved the flow of
credit.
32.  IDA's assistance to agricultural, marketing, processing and rural roads in support of
GRZ's transition to a market-based economy has been timely and appropriate. However, during
implementation, project supervision was limited, and the composition of specialists was often
inadequate. There were only eight full supervision missions during implementation, insufficient
by IDA standards, and, only three of these included a road engineer. The absence of a mid-term
review represents a lost opportunity to address the main issues, which plagued the project in the
final years. Moreover, the lack of an adequate co-ordination mechanism for implementing
agencies represents a serious weakness in project design. At project completion, it has become
clear that the decision to transfer funds from the line of credit to the road component, did not
result in increased road rehabilitation.
-33-



PROJECT IMPACT
33.   The failure to establish a monitoring and evaluation system, and the lack of systematic
data collection, do not allow a thorough analysis of project impact. However, the project has
contributed to agricultural and rural development in the country. During the 1992-93 maize
marketing season, the project helped prevent the collapse of the maize market by enabling the
private sector to purchase the crop, thereby mitigating the effects of the disappearance of
co-operative unions from the market. The project also provided term credit to enterprises to
produce and/or process agricultural commodities, contributing to agricultural value-added, and to
increased foreign exchange earnings. Unfortunately, the credit to small-scale traders and
entrepreneurs did not materialize due to lack of collateral requested by the PCBs. Although the
project accomplished only half the planned appraisal targets for road rehabilitation, the road
improvements have had a positive impact. District council officials and local people reported a
noticeable increase in vehicle traffic, particularly of small pickups and buses, as transport
operators are now more willing to use the improved roads to transport goods and people.
SUSTAINABILITY
34.   Most of the private sector agricultural production and processing enterprises, which
borrowed from the project, are sustainable ventures. In contrast, the sustainability of the project
roaas is in serious doubt as there has been no road maintenance since their rehabilitation was
completed 2-3 years ago. However, there is some prospect that their maintenance may be
provided under ROADSIP1, and this is currently under discussion, but there is no clear timetable
for regular maintenance. There is considerable risk that the rehabilitated roads will soon
deteriorate to their original poor condition unless this maintenance issue is addressed
immediately. There are also doubts about the sustainability of the credit revolving fund that has
been accumulated as loan repayments are made. These funds are being held by BOZ in a
Kwacha account, and are continuously losing value in US$ terms.
LESSONS LEARNED
35.   The main lessons to be drawn from project implementation are:
- Project design should have included a policy and/or technical level co-ordination
entity that includes all implementing agencies, to approve work plans and ensure
adherence to project objectives. Such an arrangement would also have reduced
miscommunication, and improved the sense of ownership and interest in project
components.
ROADSIP is expected to maintain some 360 km of these roads for one season under trial contracts fer-
labor-based maintenance contractors, as part of their training.
-34-



Closing the line of credit, when this was finally gaining momentum through earlier
project initiatives, has discouraged both PCBs and borrowers who applied for
investment credit. In retrospect, a preferable option would have been to continue
disbursement of credit funds to exhaustion, and integrate the road component into
ROADSIP. This would have been consistent with GRZ and IDA's strategy to
integrate these activities into sectoral programs.
After the decision to exclude several non-road components in 1997, project
organization and management should have been reviewed to ensure effective
implementation of remaining activities. This review would have determined that
MAFF was no longer the appropriate agency to manage a project concerned only with
rural roads.
Frequent changes of PCs and IDA Task Managers have adversely affected project
performance through differing approaches, delays in decision making and
interruptions in project activities.
Road rehabilitation programs must be guaranteed sufficient resources for subsequent
maintenance to ensure that rehabilitated roads will not fall back into disrepair,
negating the intended benefits.
-35-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cr. 2422-ZA
APPENDIX B
REVIEW OF RURAL ROAD COMPONENT'
A. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1. This appendix reviews the project's road component, and begins with a summary of the
intended objectives and costs at appraisal2. The main activities and achievements during
implementation are then described, including costs and follow-on arrangements at project
closure. An assessment is made of the impact of the component, and lessons to be learned from
the experience. Two sectoral programs in roads and agriculture are mentioned, which have both
affected project performance and outcome. Information was derived from aide-memoires of
supervision missions, reports of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and from mission
discussions.
Scope and Objectives
1.   Much of the annual maize harvest is stored in the open, and once the rainy season has
started, quality rapidly diminishes, resulting in substantial annual losses. In addition, fertilizer is
often delivered late in the season to rural areas, resulting in low crop yields. The poor condition
of rural roads is a major contributory factor to these problems, as many have deteriorated due to
decades of maintenance neglect. With the removal of subsidies on inputs and transport, maize
production was expected to increase near the urbanized consumption centers, particularly in
Central, Lusaka and Southern provinces. The project's road component was therefore intended
to rehabilitate and maintain 1,000 km of rural roads serving the more important maize producing
areas in these provinces. Later, in August 1997, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
amended to cover the whole country.
1 Tim Jackson, Road Engineer, FAO/CP Consultant.
2 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), World Bank, July 1992.
-36-



2.   Through an IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF), consultants were engaged to identify
400-500 km of priority roads, and prepare a work plan. Their report, presented in 1993',
presented a prioritized list of roads, summarized as follows:
US$      Road
kms   million   sections
Central    337      1.58        10
Lusaka      71      0.50         3
Southern    161     1.27         5
Total:  569      3.35        18
3.   A major objective of the road component was to recruit and train small local contractors in
labor-based and equipment supported approaches to roadworks, and thereby reduce the country's
reliance on large-scale, foreign-owned road contractors using heavy machinery. This approach
had been successfully pioneered in Ghana. At appraisal, the road component comprised:
-    Emergency Road Repair Program: 'spot' repairs along 150 km of roads
serving the most important maize and fertilizer depots to be implemented in the
first two years. The repairs would be limited to critical road bottlenecks, such
as bridges, drainage structures and impassable road sections. Machine-based
contractors, supervised by engineering consultants engaged by the project
would execute these roadworks.
-    Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program: full rehabilitation and
maintenance of 850 km of priority rural roads using labor-based technology
(supported with equipment) during the remaining three years of the project. It
was envisaged that these roadworks would be accomplished through small,
locally-based contractors, trained and assisted by the project. It was assumed
that no regravelling would be required.
-    Training Labor-Based Contractors: training, and equipping 18 local
contractors in labor-based techniques for road rehabilitation and maintenance.
After training, it was expected that each contractor would be able to rehabilitate
20 km of roads each year. An additional 60 km of road rehabilitation was
expected to be accomplished during on-the-job training, and a further 120 km
during trial road rehabilitation contracts.
4.   Technical assistance for the component was to comprise three road engineers to manage
Rural Road Units (RRUs) in the three provinces, each for 55 months, one labor-intensive
contractor training specialist and a mechanic trainer each for five years, local road consultants
for six person-months, six additional technical staff for RRUs.
1992-1993 Feeder Roads Crash Program Study, Final Project Report, MAFF, Lusaka, June 1993.
-37-



5.   These activities were expected to cost a total of US$ 20.0 million'. The mission noted
inconsistencies between the description of works to be undertaken and component costs. For
example, the costs for Class III road rehabilitation, to be undertaken by labor-based contractors,
are all attributed to the first year of the project, whilst the text describes the work being done in
the last three years. This results in over two thirds of total component costs arising in the first
year. Moreover, the 'emergency repairs' are based on a unit cost of US$ 20,000/km, which does
not reflect the description of low-cost repairs to critical road bottlenecks.
6.   A degree of institutional uncertainty was recognized at appraisal concerning
implementation of the road component. This arose because, at that time, Government was
planning the transfer of responsibility for rural roads from the Ministry of Works and
Supply (MOWS) to the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH), which
materialized in 1995. However, at appraisal, it was proposed that the component be executed
through Rural Road Units, to be established in the Provincial Road Engineer's office of the
Roads Department, in each of the three provinces. The delivery to IDA of an acceptable rural
road policy statement by Government was made a condition of loan disbursement for the
component.
Related Programs
7.   The early stages of project implementation coincided with the conceptualization and
preparation of two important sector programs supported by IDA: (i) the Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP), and (ii) the Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP). These
programs had a significant impact on ZAMPIP, particularly in relation to institutional aspects.
All non-road components were integrated into ASIP in August 1997, which resulted in a decline
in the status of PIU in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF), and subsequent
managerial deficiencies gave rise to delays in the flow of funds, disrupting Phase II activities.
Under ROADSIP, the responsibility for feeder roads was transferred from MOWS to MLGH,
which entailed amendment of the DCA, and substantially delayed implementation of the road
component. Whilst the responsibility for rural roads was designated to MLGH, the project
retained control within MAFF, undermining interest and co-operation between these two
ministries during implementation. The slow release of counterpart funds from MLGH may be
directly attributed to this lack of component ownership.
B. IMPLEMENTATION
Summary
8.   Overall performance of the road component has been disappointing. Despite the
availability of a list of priority roads in 1991, rehabilitation work only began at the end of 1995,
nearly three years after the start of the project. The rehabilitation works took far too long to
begin, but were quickly accomplished through the services of the private sector. The main
Including physical and price contingencies; no detailed costs for the component were available to the mission;
unit costs and phasing of activities are not presented in the SAR, nor is there reference to any supporting
document (working paper).
-38-



constraint has been the unsatisfactory performance of MAFF, and to a lesser extent MLGH, in
ensuring a timely flow of funds for these services. IDA was not proactive in addressing the
fundamental causes of this inefficiency. In fact, the creation of ASIP, and the associated need to
make institutional changes, has been responsible for compounding the problems.
9.   The main achievements by the road component are: (i) 550 km of roads were rehabilitated
between 1996-97, about half the original road rehabilitation target, utilizing half the funds
allocated, and (i) three classroom training courses in labor-based road maintenance were
-conducted for 44 local contractors, and six sets of labor-based equipment were procured. No
contractors were trained in labor-based road rehabilitation, and no maintenance was carried out
on any roads rehabilitated by the project. Fortunately, the transfer of labor-based road
maintenance activities to ROADSIP will enable a late start to be made on maintaining roads
rehabilitated under the project.
Initial Delays
Staffing and Institutional Aspects
10. The project became effective in May 1993, but a full-time Project Co-ordinator (PC) was
not appointed until June 1994. There was considerable uncertainty, during this first year, over
institutional responsibility for implementing the road component. The Roads Department was
reluctant to establish Rural Road Units in the provincial offices whilst-MLGH was in the process
of establishing a Feeder Road Unit (FRU), which did not become a reality until November 1995.
Following supervision in June 1994, it was decided that: (i) RRUs would not be required at
provincial level, and Roads Department would not be involved in project implementation;
(ii) MAFF would be the implementing agency, with MLGH taking technical responsibility;
(iii) MAFF would recruit a project engineer, in liaison with MLGH, to provide technical
assistance for the component. A Project Engineer (PE) was appointed in August 1995, with an
office in the new Department of Infrastructure and Support Services (DISS) of MLGH.
Conditions for Disbursement
11. The submissions to IDA of an acceptable policy statement on rural roads, and a detailed
budget for the first year of implementation were both conditions for disbursement on the road
component. In August 1994, consultant engineersI were appointed to update the initial road
study, prepare bidding documents, assist in the evaluation of bids and supervise the road
contracts for the emergency rehabilitation (Phase I). In January 1995, the policy statement on
feeder roads was finally delivered and accepted by IDA, enabling component disbursement,
some 22 months after project effectiveness.
Burrow-Binnie, Zambia.
-39-



Supervision
IDA Supervision
12. A consulting firm hired by the government and full time project engineer supervised the
road component. From IDA side, engineers input was limited and this was provided late in the
project life, three years after the start of the project, when most of the Phase I road contracts had
been completed. Moreover, the absence of a mid-term review, originally scheduled for 1996,
represents a lost opportunity to resolve the main issues, which plagued the project in the final
years. It should have been recognized in 1997, when ZAMPIP effectively became a 'road'
project, that a transfer of project responsibility from MAFF to MLGH was needed to ensure this
Ministry's commitment to the project. By the time this was eventually decided in January 1999,
it was too late to complete the unfinished roadworks. Consequently, over US$ 6.0 million,
transferred from the credit component in August 1997 to expedite roadworks, remained
unutilized.Engineering Supervision
13. The consultants, engaged by the project to supervise the roadworks, have provided
satisfactory professional services, and contractors have been obliged to execute the roadworks to
the required technical standards. The consultants were engaged from August 1994 to June 1999,
when the project closed.
14. The Project Engineer (PE, consultant) has provided overall guidance to the program, and
his recruitment, and overlap with the first full-time Project Co-ordinator, provided an important
impetus to the component after the long start-up delays of almost three years (May
1993-November 1995). However, the working environment for PE began to deteriorate with the
departure of the first PC in May 1996, and the start of ASIP in December 1995 (see para. 0). By
this time, roadworks for Phase II were being planned, with expansion of road rehabilitation to
Luapula and Northern provinces, and emphasis on enhancing the local contractor base,
particularly in labor-based road maintenance. PE was employed from August 1995 to June 1999.
Flow of Funds
15. The PIU of MAFF was given the overall responsibility for co-ordinating project
implementation. This arrangement has resulted in a reduced sense of component ownership by
MLGH, as MAFF retained control over the flow of IDA funds. From August 1997, all activities,
except the road component, were integrated into ASIP, but management remained under MAFF
until January 1999, when it was officially transferred to MLGH. The failure to complete
Phase II is mainly attributable to poor management, and lack of communication between PIU
and MLGH. Therefore, the road component was seriously disrupted through irregular flow of
funds and long delays in direct payments to suppliers and service providers. These delays were
due to inefficiencies in procurement, financial management and accounting.
-40-



Revised Project Targets
16. The priority roads identified by the road study were intended to provide the basis for initial
roadworks, but were subsequently referred to as the 'Emergency Program'n, or Phase I. During
the procurement and implementation of these road contracts, it became evident that few local
contractors had the capacity to undertake works on this scale. Most local contractors were
unable to meet the procurement conditions2, and none had any experience in labor-based
techniques. For these reasons, the program was amended in favor of machine-based contractors,
with substantially higher unit costs (US$ 14,800/km) than had been estimated by the consultants
(US$ 5,900/km). To reflect these factors, targets for the component were revised in August 1997
as follows:
Phase I : Emergency Rehabilitation
roads study
six road contracts (machine-based)
550 km in Central, Lusaka and Southern provinces
Phase Il: Rehabilation and Maintenance
study tours (Lesotho, Kenya and Uganda)
two road contracts (machine-based)
240 km in Luapula and Northern provinces
training:
36 labour-based maintenance contractors
6 labour-based rehabilitation contractors
62 directors of works (district councils)
equipment for rehabilitation contractors
Phase I: Emergency Rehabilitation
17.   Accomplishments under Phase I are summarized as follows:
km        districts US$ '000 contracts
Central   296 54%        4        4,594      2
Lusaka     71 13%        1        1,190      1
Southern  184 33%        2        2,446     3
550 100%      7         8,230     6
This reflects a misunderstanding: the road study was commissioned (before appraisal) to identify the initial work
program; the term 'emergency' was introduced at appraisal for 'spot' improvements; the two activities are quite
different; in practice, no 'spot' improvements were undertaken.
2 Bid bonds, performance guarantees and minimum levels of equipment.
-41-



Procurement of Road Contractors
18.  For tendering, the consultants prepared a list of 16 roads totaling 585 km, varying in length
from 1-120 km. Advertisements were placed in the national press in July 1995, and the Zambia
National Tender Board (ZNTB) awarded contracts in September 1995 (soon after the
appointment of PE). Disappointingly, only five of the 16 roads attracted bids from five large
construction companies. The total value of (lowest) bids was US$ 5.5 million, well in excess of
the US$ 3.0 million consultant's estimate. ZNTB was authorized by IDA to enter direct
negotiations with successful contractors to include most of the other smaller roads. IDA
authorized the transfer of funds from the 'other' category under civil works to make up the
shortfall. Moreover, to facilitate counterpart finding by MLGH, which was becoming a serious
problem, the 35% counterpart fund requirement specified in the DCA was reduced to 10%. The
final awards comprised six contracts awarded to four large contractors, three foreign owned, and
one in partnership with a Zambian company. The six contracts to rehabilitate 550 km in seven
districts had a total cost of US$ 8.2 million. Road lengths varied from 20-130 km, with unit
costs ranging from US$ 9,700-18,800/km (or US$ 14,900/km on average).
Contract Execution
19. Contractors were mobilized during November 1995 and five contracts were completed a
year later, by the end of December 1996. The sixth and final contract in Central province, started
in November 1996, and completed in December 1997. The technical standard of the
rehabilitation works (reported during supervision) was entirely satisfactory. The roadworks were
hindered by the usual range of problems encountered during construction: disruption and damage
by traffic', long hauls to borrow areas for suitable gravel, high rainfall, poor drainage and/or high
water table inhibiting the use of construction machinery, and shortage of water required for
compaction. Contractors were obliged to repair damage during the rainy season following
construction, but the mission observed that no maintenance has been carried out since then, a
period of 2-3 years. Some of the more heavily trafficked roads are showing signs of
considerable deterioration, and unless maintenance is carried out soon, 'heavy' grading will be
needed to retain the correct road profile.
20. All priority roads identified by the consultants for rehabilitation were Class III feeder
roads, with a standard cross section comprising a compacted gravel carriageway of 5.0 m, with
1.0 m shoulders and 0.6 m level difference between the drain inverts and the finished road crown
before gravelling. However, in order to minimize costs, the contracts specified partial
regravelling, according to the quality and thickness of existing in-situ gravel material. This led
to underestimates of regravelling requirements on some roads, and consequently, the consultants
recommended full regravelling for the rehabilitation of roads in Phase IL.
Phase II: Rehabilitation and Maintenance
21. During supervision in April 1997, it was agreed to assimilate the project's non-road
components into ASIP, and undisbursed credit funds of US$ 6.0 million were transferred to the
Delivery of fertiliser and collection of maize by heavy 30 ton trucks was a particular problem in the commercial
farming area of Mkushi, in Central province.
-42-



road component. The road component was accordingly revised as Phase II, to include:
(i) rehabilitation of 240 km in Luapula and Northern provinces, to be identified in consultation
with ROADSIP; (ii) a training program to improve the capacity of local contractors in
labor-based roadworks (including suitable equipment); and (iii) training of district council staff
to supervise these contractors. The total costs for these Phase II activities were estimated at
US$ 5.9 million.
Training
22. Study Tour. In preparation for Phase II, a study tour was undertaken to Lesotho, Kenya
and Uganda to learn from their experience in implementing projects utilizing labor-based
approaches to road rehabilitation and maintenance. The visit, organized with the assistance of
the International Labor Organization (ILO), took place in July-August 1997, and included senior
PIU staff', an engineer from the MLGH Feeder Road Unit, and a potential small-scale
contractor. The trip proved extremely beneficial, and provided an opportunity to view and
discuss the labor-based approach to roadworks, and it was decided to adopt this methodology for
Phase II. Following this study tour, Phase II proposals were finalized, including the
organizational arrangements and costs for contractor training, equipment needs, and associated
trial rehabilitation and maintenance contracts.
23. In early 1997, PE also attended a seminar on labor-based roadworks in Ghana. This was
organized by ILO and took part in a short course on road construction and maintenance in
developing countries at the Transport and Road Research Laboratory in the United Kingdom.
24. Labor-Based Road Maintenance Contractors and Works Supervisors. Between
November 1997 to March 1999, the project financed three separate training courses, each of
three months, which were conducted by the Roads Training School (RTS) in Lusaka. 44
contractors from five provinces2 were trained in labor-based road maintenance along with works
supervisors from 15 district councils. These contractors were selected through interviews with
233 applicants, which had responded to advertisements in the national press. The second
training course was interrupted for a period of four months due to delays in payment to RTS3.
This, in turn, delayed the start of the final course. For this reason, there was insufficient time
before project closure to carry out the intended three month trial road maintenance contracts,
providing on-the-job application of the classroom training. The total cost for this training was
US$ 374,700. It has since been agreed, that these incomplete road maintenance activities will be
taken up under ROADSIP, utilizing the equipment already procured by ZAMPIP (see paras 0
and 0).
25. Labor-Based Road Rehabilitation Contractors. Following interviews with over 200
applicants in November 1998, nine contractors were selected for the proposed training course in
labor-based road rehabilitation - three contractors each from Central, Lusaka and Southern
provinces respectively. The intention had been to start training in March 1999, but this was
cancelled during supervision, as the project was due to close in June 1999. The expectation was
' The Acting Project Co-ordinator and the Project Engineer.
2 The original three provinces of Central (11 contractors/4 districts), Lusaka (6/1) and Southem (9/4), and Luapula
(9/3) and northem (9/3) provinces.
3 This delay was inexcusable because training costs were 100% reimbursable by IDA.
-43-



that this activity would be taken up under ROADSIP, along with associated trial rehabilitation
contracts utilizing equipment procured by ZAMPIP for subsequent transfer to contractors
through hire purchase. At the time of the ICR, this is still under discussion between MLGH,
MOWS and IDA.
Procurement
26. Road Contractors. For tendering, the consultants prepared a list of roads in four lots
totaling 238 km in Luapula (118 km) and Northern (120 km) provinces and advertisements were
placed in the national press in May 1998. However, problems arose because the Zambia
National Tender Board (ZNTB) did not accept the initial bid evaluation made by the project, and
made altemative suggestions which were not accepted by IDA. These problems took about eight
months to resolve and two contracts with a total value of US$ 4.75 million were finally awarded
in October 1999, to be financed under ROADSIP.
27. Labor-Based Equipment. Nine local contractors were selected for training in labor-based
road rehabilitation, but this training was not carried out due to delays. However, six sets of
equipment weve procured, at a cost of about US$ 0.9 million. Each set (about US$ 120,000)
comprises a 4WD vehicle for supervision, two tractors, a roller, a trailer, a towed water tanker
with pump, and culvert ring moulds. District councils also purchased an additional vehicle for
supervision.
28. Contracts for the purchase of tractors and vehicles, valued at US$ 0.45 million, were made
in May-June 1998. These items were obtained through direct purchase under IAPSO', and were
received in Zambia in early 1999. The vehicles are being stored by MAFF at their central
workshops (Mount Makulu). At the time of the mission (October 1999), the tractors had not
been released by the shipping agent due to a dispute over unpaid storage charges. A local
company manufactured all the remaining items. Whilst the contract was awarded in September
1998, the 30% advance payment (US$ 60,000) was not paid to the company for ten months, in
July 1999. This serves to illustrate the financial mismanagement within MAFF/PIU at this time.
The mission inspected all the imported equipment, and visited the factory where manufacturing
was in progress.
Costs
29. Total costs incurred during implementation of the road component were as follows:
UN agency for procurement.
-44-



US$ '000
Investment Costs
Vehicles and Equipment                   28
Engineering Supervision                298
Phase I: Emergency Rehabilitation
- road study                    67
- road contracts             8,228
Phase Il: Rehabilitation and Maintenance
- training courses/seminars    278
- labor based equipment      1,000
- study tour                     6
sub total:   9,905
Recurrent Costs
Salaries and Allowances                206
Vehicles and Equipment O&M               25
sub total:    231
Total:  10,137
SAR:  20,033
Monitoring and Evaluation
30. Despite being a requirement in the DCA, the project failed to establish a monitoring and
evaluation system. Consequently, there has been no systematic data collection to allow an
assessment of the impact of the road component.
Transfer to ROADSIP
31. In February 1999, Government made a formal request for an extension of the component to
June 2001, but this was rejected by IDA on the grounds that most of the unfinished activities
would be taken up under ROADSIP. Following discussions between MLGH and MOWS, it has
been agreed that ROADSIP will accommodate: (i) 240 km road rehabilitation in Luapula and
Northern provinces, and (ii) the trial contracts for the 36 labor-based road maintenance
contractors trained by ZAMPIP. The total cost of these activities is US$ 3.5 million, and two
road rehabilitation contracts were awarded in October 1999 (240 km). The training of the six
labor-based road rehabilitation contractors has yet to be decided, and is due for discussion during
the mid-term review of ROADSIP, scheduled for October 1999.
C. IMPACT
Economic
32. As no monitoring or evaluation system was established by the project, no traffic or other
data were available on which to assess the economic impact of the road component. At -
appraisal, the expected economic benefits from the improved roads were based on the following
-45-



assumptions: (i) benefits to farmers arising from a 15% increase in agricultural production,
(ii) benefits to transporters based on a 2.5% decrease in vehicle operating costs, and (iii) an
overall reduction in maize haulage. Since there was a revision in the length of road network to be
rehabilitated, this assumption is no more valid and, therefore, the expected economic benefits
could have not been realized. On the other hand, the benefits from the revised targets were not
calculated and there is no basis to assess the impact. Nonetheless, what has been observed is that
farmers have not been using sufficient fertilizer, and expected agricultural output has not been
realized; the anticipated decline in vehicle operation costs has not occurred because of the rapid
increase in fuel costs in recent years, and the project has not rehabilitated sufficient roads to have
had a marked impact on maize haulage.
33. The original target for rehabilitation was about 6300 km of rural roads (including spot
improvements). This was late revised to 790 Km of major road improvement work. Out of the
revised road network for repair, the project has rehabilitated about 70% . Consequently, the
project's road improvements have benefited to a relatively small proportion of the total area and
rural population. However, during field visits, district council officials and local people reported
a noticeable increase in vehicle traffic, particularly of small pickups and buses, as transport
operators are now more willing to use the improved roads to transport goods and people. There
have been social benefits to the rural population served by the roads, the time saved in access to
health services being especially valued. There has been an increase in the number of 'informal'
markets along rehabilitated roads, as many of the former storage depots remain largely unused
since the collapse of the subsidized marketing system.
34.  Since the roads were rehabilitated 2-3 years ago, there has been no maintenance carried
out, and it is estimated that at least one third of the roads rehabilitated are now in urgent need of
maintenance. Benefits are declining with each year this maintenance is neglected, and unless
action is taken within the next 2-3 years, there will be practically no residual benefits.
Unfortunately, large trucks (20 ton) are still widely used on rural roads to haul agricultural inputs
and outputs, causing serious damage. The late delivery of fertilizer by these large trucks during
the rainy season is especially damaging.
Environmental
35. All project road rehabilitation has been confined to existing roads, and no new construction
or major realignment has been carried out. Consequently, all works have been restricted to
existing rights-of-way. Contractors were obliged to reinstate borrow areas, used for excavation
of gravel, to 'a ground shape and soil conditions suitable for re-establishment of indigenous plant
varieties'. This has minimized the likelihood of residual pools of stagnant water along roads,
and associated health hazards. Improvements in road drainage have reduced the tendency of
neglected roads to accumulate water, and cause localized erosion damage. For these reasons, the
road component has not created any adverse effects on the environment.
Between 1995 and 1999, the price of diesel fuel has increased by 100%.
-46-



D. SUSTAINABILITY
36. As has already been mentioned, there has been no maintenance of roads rehabilitated by
the project, and many of the busier routes have now deteriorated to the point where substantial
investments will again be needed. On this basis, the project cannot claim to have made
sustainable road improvements. Fortunately, ROADSIP has agreed to fund some 350 km of trial
labor-based road contracts in Central and Lusaka provinces, which provides a belated start to this
essential work. However, this welcome initiative does not provide any assurance that resources
for maintenance will continue. It is important that future investments in rural roads should only
commence when resources can be assured for subsequent maintenance.
E. LESSONS LEARNED
37. The following points highlight some lessons from implementation of the road component:
(i)  Road Maintenance. Component design should include sufficient resources
and practical arrangements for maintenance of the rehabilitated roads, and
should address the issue of how these resources will be generated (or sustained)
after project completion. Without assured maintenance, the pre-project
situation of severe neglect will recur within a few years, as observed under the
project. In short, investments in rural roads will have been largely wasted.
Unfortunately, this fundamental sustainability issue plagues most rural road
improvement programs.
(ii) Institutional Responsibility. Component design must define specific
institutional arrangements for implementation, with the relevant agencies
having adequate ownership and a reasonable degree of financial autonomy and
control. Such institutional arrangements should be a condition for loan
effectiveness, and not simply a condition for loan disbursements. The road
component suffered from poor institutional arrangements, from the outset,
which were recognized as uncertain at appraisal. This should not have been
left 'undecided' at appraisal, as the SAR proposal was clearly not acceptable to
MOWS at that time. Project effectiveness should have been delayed until this
matter had been resolved. This institutional issue should have been more
effectively addressed during supervision (or mid-term review).
(iii) IDA Management. Complex projects with many components and
implementing institutions require regular supervision by suitable specialists,
especially during the early years of implementation. IDA management should
ensure that the specified supervision plan drawn up at appraisal is carried out,
or is suitably modified as required. In particular, a mid-term review must be
carried out. The road component was adversely affected by IDA failure to
comply with these supervision requirements. For example: (i) there was no
engineering specialist on any supervision missions during the first four years of
the project, and (ii) the institutional problems relating to the road component
should have been addressed, especially after 1997, when ZAMPIP effectivelv
-47-



became a 'road' project. There was a lack of continuity in task management by
IDA, with five different managers during project implementation.
(iv) Project Management. Sufficient numbers of senior, competent, motivated,
and project-specific staff are required for effective implementation by project
management. Staff and other changes, which diffuse and reduce
responsibilities for project management will have an adverse effect on project
performance. The project has suffered from unsatisfactory management by
MAFF, and to a lesser extent, MLGH in ensuring a timely and adequate flow
of funds to implement the project. This was partly caused by the advent of
ASIP in 1995, and the loss of a competent and project-specific (consultant) PC
in 1996. There was also a serious lack of continuity in project management,
with five PCs in total, with three after 1996 being without incentives and
relatively junior in rank. The Financial Management Unit in MAFF is singled
out for particular criticism, causing delays in disbursements and
replenishments.
(v) Monitoring and Evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation must be
implemented as designed to enable assessment of project impact and
performance. No monitoring or evaluation system was established by the
project, although specified as a requirement in the DCA. This oversight was
largely due to the absorption of ZAMPIP into ASIP, and the consequent loss of
focus in project management. However, project supervision (or mid-term
review) should have addressed this matter.
(vi) Labor-Based Roadworks. Innovative approaches (labor-based roadworks)
should be included in component design. However, caution should be
exercised over targets, which should be conservative and based on realistic
assumptions (in this case, local contracting capacity and labor availability). At
appraisal, there had been little previous experience of a labor-based approach
to roadworks in Zambia, and design targets were unduly optimistic, based on
experience from Ghana. In retrospect, a mixture of both labor-based and
machine-based approaches would have been more realistic. The project has
contributed towards acceptance of labor-based roadworks, and other donor
projects are adopting this approach, endorsed by the National Roads Board and
ROADSIP.
(vii) Private Sector. Component design should maximize the involvement of the
private sector in the execution of the roadworks, and reduce the role of
government to policy, planning, supervision and control of resources. This
element of component design has proved successful, and engineering and
contractor services have implemented the required road rehabilitation works in
a technically competent and efficient manner. Compared to earlier work, unit
costs have declined in response to competition and the scale of works.
(viii) Component Details. Project management requires a full understanding of
design assumptions, costs and phasing in order to implement a component
-48-



successfully. There was insufficient information on these aspects in the SAR,
and no supporting document (working paper) was made available to PIU/PE.
-49-



IBRD 23688
Ir  zo                2b'                         wr                     _     _     A    ;  l,>~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAKE  
ar  24~~~~~       Ar                                                         -              TANGANYIKA~ ~~~~ANZNI
ZAMBIA                                                                           WAKF                          TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND PROCESSING                                                MAKl -blA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                 MWE
Nheleg 
PROJECT AREA                           TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS                  KowImba,o
PROVINCE CAPITALS                      SECONDARY OR DISTRICT ROADS
(Project Area Only)                                                               '~
\  i)     NATIONAL CAPITAL                       RIVERS                                                     ' f
t    -     -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         NORTHERN
LAKE                      )
BANLiWEULU
This map h-ls been pr.pared  1$   9   /   MANSAt;>%W  [ 1 ,J { pWANSA
ex&lS-12y for the --vei-enet g\>_  LAV4    
of -d- and is f., th. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
.intra use of The WsrldEonk  g                        _                                 \       \                              6pka                \,/
G-sp.The denommahons -sd I)~ ~SXJis
-12-  and hthe bdunnd.,ire sytnh.-                                 ~t/\                                           \//VI
aport .of rT e nWbrd Btohn tG.. p.  ?_y owz                                   ,      J~m                                                          Ludz> 
endorrement orcoephanr.wof   r NORTH                    J    Ching      '                                        ,,                           J 
s-ch b-nd.nes.                  WESTERN                                -<                                 
b - - - 2 LuensfygNgLA / sw ) /~~~~~~~~Luo
>\ Zambem  y                 ta~~~~~~~~~~Ksempo   COiPP,L            2                      Senje          
Zarnbe4i t   \CHIPAT                                                                                                                      MAV-A W,
Lu uWEKABWN                                                                                                                              TANZANIA
OZA E-n -ZMBAIWU gOMU E
KQOMO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
Rabz i         v.- OWANril KNY9A
NAMIBIA   LIsKlNGSTONE    , KV                                                       0       4: LAFRICA~~SAA         TAZANI
Zl  ,-MfOTSWANAV  1     -                               -           I              : 1:  :   f                               :du
WESTERN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pi Koob  Nmwtoru



