CREDIT NUMBER 2422 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Marketing and Processing
Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    f2fe-,pt42       , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBE 2422 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   fCir/w,A6/Oe A8           , 1992, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) and Schedules 1 through 5 constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 2, 1987 and March 19,
1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(c)   "Revolving Fund Account" means Accounts to be opened for
each one of the PCBs with the Bank of Zambia to finance sub-projects
according to Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(d)   "Bank of Zambia" means the Central Bank of Zambia
established pursuant to the Bank of Zambia Act of the laws of the
Borrower;
(e)   "MLIC" means the Marketing and Logistics Information
Center;
(f)   "Participating Commercial Bank" (PCB) means a commercial
bank registered under the laws of the Borrower, which will borrow
part of the proceeds of the Credit from the Borrower and relend such
proceeds to sub-borrowers according to Part A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(g)   "RRU" means the Rural Roads Unit;
(h)   "RDEP" means the Roads Department of the Borrower;
(i)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to
be entered into pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement between
the Bank of Zambia and a PCB regulating the use of part of the
proceeds of the Credit to be on-lent through sub-loans;
(j)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by
a PCB to a sub-borrower for a sub-project which will be partly
funded out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to the PCB under the
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(k)   "Sub-Project"  means   activity  of   a  sub-borrower
qualifying under Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(1)   "Sub-borrower"  means   any  private   enterprise  or
independent cooperative engaged in the business of distribution of
agricultural inputs and crops, the final beneficiary under Part A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(M)   "ZABS" means the Zambia Bureau of Standards.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Secti7,n 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-3-
equivalent to twenty four million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or caacelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year


﻿-4-
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002, and ending April 1, 2032.-at
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012, shall be one
percent  (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower credit-worthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of Imerica is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, marketing and infrastructure practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
_____    -ser-vices-and- ether -resources-required- for- the -roject.  --  ---------'----
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and D of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall cause PCBs to carry out Part A
of the Project in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the amount
allocated to and withdrawn under Category (2) of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement to PCBs for carrying out Part A of the Project, under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Bank of
Zambia on behalf of the Borrower and each PCB under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and
which shall include:
(i)    the provisions of Part A, Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;


﻿-6-
(ii)    repayment over five years after a ten year grace
period at an interest rate equal to the Bank of
Zambia discount rate prevailing at the time of
payment or the rate being paid to the general
public by PCBs on three month deposits,
whichever is higher. The Borrower shall assume
the foreign exchange risk;
(iii)    obligation of the PCB to use the principal of
repaid Sub-Loans under the same conditions as
governing the. first disbursements; and
(iv)    obligation of the PCB to actively solicit and
evaluate sub-loan applications and to re-lend
such repaid principal amounts; missing funds due
to defaults to be substituted by the PCB out of
their own funds.
(b)   The Bank of Zambia shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures
to ensure that:
(a)   the PCBs make Sub-loans directly to Sub-borrowers for a
Sub-Project under a Sub-Loan Agreement to be entered into between a
PCB and a Sub-borrower under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall be consistent with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Sub-borrowers utilize the proceeds of the Credit for the
purposes specified under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall relend the amount allocated
to and withdrawn under Category (3) (a) of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement to Market Associations, cooperatives or Maize Mills for
carrying out Part D of the Project, under Technical Assistance
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each
Marketing Association, Cooperative or Mill under terms and


﻿-7-
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and
which shall include the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of this
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) open and maintain one Project Account for
each Part of the Project with the Bank of Zambia/a commercial bank;
and (b) each quarter deposit into each account the funds allocated
in the Budget of the Borrower and required for Project implementa-
tion for the following quarter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than January 31, 1993, employ short-term
consultants throughout Project implementation period to assist the
Borrower in implementing the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan referred
to above.
(b)   (i) not later than March 31, 1993, submit to the
Association for its approval a Monitoring and Evaluation Plan for
the Project, and (ii) thereafter implement said Monitoring and
Evaluation Plan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1994, submit to the Association for review and comments the results
of the maize export study; and (b) thereafter implement the recom-
mendations of said study taking into account the Association's
views.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, with effect from the 1993/94
marketing season until completion of the Project implement necessary
measures to liberalize export marketing of maize under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31,
1993, take all necessary measures to ensure that INDECO Group Mills
are allowed to independently set prices for maize meal in relation
to cost and prevailing market conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31,
1992, take all measures to remove price controls on domestically
produced white maize at all levels of the maize marketing system.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1995, carry out jointly with the Association a mid-term review of
the progress of the Project and soon thereafter shall implement the
recommendations of such review. The review shall: (a) highlight
progress made in achieving key performance indicators described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) develop guidelines for the
preparation of a follow-up project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish  to  the   Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish  to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said, records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or  cause   to  be   maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that  such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the PCBs to maintain
separate accounts for expenditures under the Project and to: (i)
have these accounts and financial statements for each financial year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the PCB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (a) with effect from the third quarter of 1992
until completion of the Project carry out a quarterly review of
domestic interest rates; (b) promptly thereafter submit to the
Association for comments the results of said quarterly review; and
(c) promptly implement the recommendations of said review taking
into account the comments of the Association, provided however that
the Borrower shall ensure that lending rates for sub-loans under the
Project are positive in real terms at all times. For the purposes of
this Section, the term "positive in real terms" means positive after
adjusting for the domestic rate of inflation projected or actually
experienced during a specified period.
Section 4.04. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.03
of this Agreement the Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1993, take all measures necessary to decontrol interest rates at all
levels.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions; namely, that the
Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence satisfactory to
the Association that progress satisfactory to the Association has
been made in completing the outstanding audits for the following
agricultural Projects: (i) Second Forestry Project (Credit 1437-ZA);
(ii) Fisheries Project (credit 1529-ZA); and (iii) Agricultural
Research and Extension Project (Credit 1746-ZA).
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /4/ p4'.ow&iAl1K     /   ~   i
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    ~   A  ~    o  a   V   c
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for:                           65%
(a) Emergency             2,190,000
Road Repairs
(b) Others                2,810,000
(2) Sub-loans for:                             80% of Sub-loans
(a) Vehicles,             3,000,000
Trailers and
Equipment
(b) Maize                 3,650,000
(c) Fertilizers           2,780,000
(d) Equipment               150,000
for Farm
Rehabilitation
(3) Consultants'                               100%
Services for:
(a) Maize                 3,285,000
Marketing
(b) Others                3,650,000


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cateciory              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Training                   1,015,000        100%
(5) Refunding of                  50,000       Amounts due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                1,520,000
TOTAL                24,100,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   payments made for expenditures under Category 1 unless
the Borrower has (i) established RRU and appointed an engineer in
each PRE Office for the purpose of carrying Part B of the Project,
(ii) opened Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement and has submitted to the Association evidence, satis-
factory to the Association that the initial quarterly deposit has
been made into each such account, (iii) submitted to the Association
a rural roads policy statement satisfactory to the Association for
the roads rehabilitation and maintenance program, and (iv) submitted
to the Association a detailed program budget for the first year of
Project implementation;
(c)   payments made for expenditures under Category 2 for any
PCB unless the Borrower has submitted to the Association (i) a
signed Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Association
entered into between the Bank of Zambia on behalf of the Borrower
and the respective PCB, and (ii) evidence that the particular PCB
has met the qualifications referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and


﻿- 15 -
(d)   payments made for expenditures under Category 3 for any
Marketing Association, Cooperative or Mill unless the Borrower has
submitted to the Association (i) a signed Technical Assistance
Agreement, acceptable to the Association entered into between the
Borrower and the respective Marketing Association, Cooperative or
Mill, (ii) evidence that amendments satisfactory to the Association
to the Agricultural Marketing Act 1989 have been enacted, and (iii)
evidence satisfactory to the Association that cooperatives will be
allowed to operate without government interference.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the Borrower
in implementing economic reforms in the agricultural sector by
improving the infrastructure for agricultural marketing and
processing; (b) stimulate the development of the private sector in
marketing, rural transportation and agroprocessing; (c) increase
rural employment and income opportunities for the rural poor; and
(d) improve access to credit by smallholder farmers, including women
and private enterprises in the rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Credit for the Private Sector
1.    Provision of agricultural credit to the private sector for
investment and working capital through the PCB's for the:
(a)   purchase of maize from the producers and fertilizer and
other agricultural inputs from suppliers;
(b)   acquisition of capital goods    (vehicles, tractors,
trailers, weighing scales, hammer mills and road construction
equipment) used in maize marketing, fertilizer distribution and
rural road rehabilitation; and
(c)   rehabilitation on a pilot basis, of about 20,000
hectares of underutilized or abandoned commercial farms.
Part B:     Rural Roads
1.    Rehabilitation of rural roads in Central, Lusaka and Southern
Provinces.
2.    Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Roads (RDEP)
in rural road maintenance through the provision of equipment,                   a
materials and technical assistance and the establishment of a Rural
Roads Unit in each of the three aforementioned provinces, attached
to the Provincial Roads Engineer.


﻿- 17 -
Part C:     Market Development and Monitoring
1.    Strengthening the capacity of the Marketing and Logistics
Information Center in collection and dissemination of information on
crop marketing to the private sector through staff training and
provision of vehicles and computers.
2.    Improving the capacity of ZABS in establishing quality
standards, and grading for agricultural products, certifying
agricultural products for marketing and monitoring compliance with
these standards through the provision of laboratory equipment,
vehicles and staff training in sampling techniques and analysis.
Part D:     Managerial Assistance to the Private Sector
1.    Strengthening the   capacity of the    agricultural private
enterprises and independent cooperatives in management, finance,
agriculture marketing and in the preparation and implementation of
business plans.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works for the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural
roads, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $8,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for goods for Part A of the Project may be procured
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchasers
of such goods, taking into account the provisions of paragraph 5 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed, awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
confozmed copies of the contract required to be furnish, d to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such


﻿- 19 -
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.    Part A of the Project
In carrying out Part A of the Project:
1.    PCBs shall advance (a) working capital sub-loans to enter-
prises for the purchase of maize from farmers, fertilizers and other
agricultural inputs from importers, and/or wholesale dealerships,
(b) investment capital sub-loans to enterprises for the purchase of
capital items required for maize marketing, fertilizer or other
agricultural inputs distribution, rural road maintenance and for
rehabilitation of commercial farms.
2.    PCBs shall enter into Sub-Loan Agreements with Sub-borrowers.
Such Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:
(a)   Interest rates on sub-loans shall be set at a rate that
would allow the PCB to earn a spread of at least 4% above the Bank
of Zambia discount rate, or the three month savings deposit rate
paid to the public by PCB, whichever is higher.
(b)   The sub-loan period shall not exceed one year for
working capital and three years for investment capital.
(c)   PCBs shall apply their normal evaluation procedures in
making such sub-loans.
(d)   The sub-loan shall cover not more than 80% of the Sub-
Project cost.
(e)   Sub-loans made out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be incremental to the PCB's normal lending in agriculture.
3.    (a)   The Bank of Zambia shall open and maintain a Revolving
Fund Account for each PCB in which approved Subsidiary Loan amounts
will be deposited, and out of which approved Sub-loans will be
financed. The initial deposits into the Revolving Fund Accounts for
working capital Sub-loans shall be based on projections prepared by
each PCB of expected disbursements for the first three months of
Project implementation. After that, replenishment will be made
quarterly based on actual disbursements made by a PCB in the
preceding quarters.


﻿- 21 -
(b)   Repayments of Sub-loans shall be deposited into the
Revolving Fund Account and may be drawn again by the PCB.
4.    Any commercial bank may qualify as PCBs if it meets the
following criteria:
(a)   in the opinion of the Association, such bank is
financially sound and well-managed;
(b)   the bank haa up-to-date audit reports satisfactory to
the Association;
(c)   the bank has well established     commercial  lending
practices and operating policies;
(d)   the bank must be currently involved and has experience
in lending to agriculture or agribusiness sectors. The bank should
have at least 15% of its lending portfolio in the agriculture or
agribusiness sectors; and
(e)   the bank has a branch network within and outside the
Project area that would allow it to target beneficiaries.
5.    Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of Sub-loans shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts thereof.
B.    Part B of the Project
6.    In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall
establish direct-labor maintenance training unit comprising of two
industrial tractors, two towed graders, two tipping trailers,
ancillary compaction equipment and hand tools.
C.    Part D of the Project
7.    (a)   In carrying out Part D of the Project the Borrower shall
provide technical assistance packages to commercially viable private
enterprises, independent cooperatives and mills involved in the
marketing of maize, fertilizer or other agricultural inputs. The
technical assistance team shall consist of (i) a general manager,
(ii) a financial manager, and (iii) a marketing manager or any one
of them.


﻿- 22 -
(b)   In order to qualify for the technical assistance
package, the enterprise or cooperative shall meet the following
criteria (i) must not be a multinational or a subsidiary of a
multinational company, (ii) must be viable or potentially viable,
and (iii) must be financially solvent.
(C)   The technical assistance team shall work with the
management team of each enterprise to develop a comprehensive
commercial business plan.
8.    The Borrower shall enter into a Technical Assistance Agreement
with each Marketing Association or cooperative or maize mill for
financing technical assistance under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, including repayment
over five years with two years grace period and no interest.
Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    In order to assist the Borrower to carry out the obligations
under Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) whose membership and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association. The PIU shall
monitor and evaluate the physical and financial progress of the
Project. Monitoring and Evaluation shall be done as follows:
(a)   For Part A of the Project:
The Monitoring and Evaluation system will:
(i)    evaluate the impact of Sub-loans on private
sector participation in marketing and rural
transportation;
(ii)    assess recovery rates achieved by PCBs;
(iii)    identify constraints faced by PCBs in sub-loan
delivery and recovery and suggest remedial
measures;
(iv)    identify   constraints  faced   by   potential
beneficiaries in gaining access to sub-loans
from PCBs; and


﻿- 23 -
(v)    assess the extent to which PCBs are recycling
the Credit proceeds within the agricultural
sector.
(b)   Each PCB shall submit semi-annual reports to the PIU
which will include:
(i)    the number, type, and account of sub-loans
granted;
(ii)    the number and amount of sub-loans disbursements
made;
(iii)    sub-loan repayments from sub-borrowers; and
(iv)    the amounts of overdue sub-loans and their
aging.
(c)   For Part B of the Project:
The Monitoring and Evaluation System will focus on:
(i)    the criteria adopted for selecting roads for
rehabilitation;
(ii)    the number of contractors selected annually for
implementing civil works under the Project;
(iii)    funds  allocated  by  the  Borrower  for  road
rehabilitation;
(iv)    length of roads rehabilitated annually under the
emergency road repairs and labor-based rehabi-
litation program;
(v)    number of labor-based contractors trained each
year; and
(vi)    output of type of road (gravel/earth) performed
by each contractor each year.
Mid-Term Review
10.   The review referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement shall
inter alia, cover the following:


﻿- 24 -
(a)   For Part A of the Project:
Performance of PCBs:
(i)    reasonably fast application procedures;
(ii)    satisfactory sub-loan policing;
(iii)    acceptable repayment results;
(iv)    acceptable direct-risk participation of PCB; and
(v)    satisfactory roll-over of funds in the Revolving
Fund Account.
Sub-Proiects
(i)    satisfactory spread of information concerning
availability of sub-loans;
(ii)    size   of   sub-loans  adequate   to   sustain
economically viable sub-projects;
(iii)    identification of bottlenecks remaining in the
transportation of agricultural inputs and crops
with reasons and proposals on how they can be
overcome;
(iv)    procurement procedures; and
(v)    women's access to sub-loans.
(b)   For Part B of the Project:
(i)    specific bottlenecks abolished;
(ii)    lessons  to   be  learned   from  this   pilot
rehabilitation project for the country-wide
rural roads rehabilitation component under the
proposed Roads Engineering Credit (REC) of the
Association;
(iii)    interface of Part B of the Project with the
above-mentioned REC clarified;


﻿- 25 -
(iv)    labor-intensive     road    maintenance    and
rehabilitation teams installed;
(v)    existing local contractors trained to guarantee
consistency of maintenance;
(vi)    adequate  technical  assistance  dispensed  to
target groups to assure survival of private
contractor's business;
(vii)    Rural Road Unit established and working; and
(viii)    improvement in the Department of Roads' (RDEP)
capacity to assure road maintenance.
(c)   Part C of the Project:
(i)    improvement of MLIC's administration and its own
logistics;
-     satisfactory staff working capacity;
-     sufficient equipment;
-     adequate data-collection logistics; and
-     adequate data-dissemination systems and
procedures;
(ii)    satisfactory arrangements for leasing public
storage facilities;
(iii)    recer.ion  of  MLIC's  information  in  target
groups;
(iv)    improvement of ZABS's working environment:
-     satisfactory staff working capacity;
-     well maintained laboratory equipment in
sufficient quality and quantity; and
-     satisfactory   sampling  techniques  and
logistics;


﻿- 26 -
(v)    usefulness of standards established;
(vi)    development of quality standards according to an
established procedure under way;
(vii)    monitoring  of  compliance   with  established
standards;
(d)   For Part D of the Proiect:
(i)    technical assistance procedures set up satis-
factorily;
(ii)    target group effectively reached; and
(iii)    quality improvement in target group ascertain-
able.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of The proceeds of this Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means   an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 28 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 29 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


