 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14801

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 09/11/2015

               Country: Nicaragua
             Project ID: P087046                                                   Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Second Agricultural         Project Costs (US$M):                      27.50               26.22
                         Technology Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      12.00               21.02
      Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural       Cofinancing (US$M):                      10.30                9.61
                          Development
           Cofinanciers: IFAD and Canada TF           Board Approval Date :                                 11/29/2005
                                                              Closing Date:           03/31/2010            06/30/2014
          Sector(s):      Agricultural extension and research (71%); Central government administration (20%);
                          Forestry (9%)
          Theme(s):       Rural markets (29%); Rural services and infrastructure (29%); Nutrition and food security
                          (14%); Indigenous peoples (14%); Environmental policies and institutions (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Keith Robert A. Oblitas   J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                          Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project was "to provide the Recipient with a second phase of support to increase agricultural productivity by
providing rural households and communities with broader access to sustainable agricultural, forestry and natural
resource management services, technology and innovations, in line with the Recipient’s PRORURAL program."
(Program Financing Agreement, February 24, 2006, Schedule 1.)

The objective in the Project Appraisal Document has minor variations in wording compared with the Financing
Agreement but no substantive differences.

The Second Agricultural Technology Project's (PTA-II) objectives were not changed during implementation, but the
scope of the project was considerably increased through provision of a Grant in May 2010 (see Section 2d of this
Review), about the time of the originally planned project closure, primarily for expanding the seed sector program.. As
the objectives were not changed, the project's achievements will be evaluated against the original objectives,, but the
evaluation will also take note of the performance of activities financed through the AF.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 Original Components

1.       Innovation and adoption of agricultural and forestry technology. - Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs
without contingencies) - US$23.9 million; actual costs US$21.7 million.
Generation and transfer of relevant technology, with an increased focus on marketing, competitiveness, sustainability
and natural resources management through: (i) agricultural research and development; (ii) technical assistance and
extension services; (iii) foundation seed production and certification; (iv) post-harvest technical assistance and market
development; (v) certification, training and dissemination activities; (vi) adoption and innovation of forest technology;
and (vii) competitive grants for technical assistance and sustainable forest management.

2.       Institutional modernization and strengthening. - Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without
contingencies) - US$3.6 million; actual costs US$4.52 million.
Improving Government’s capacity to formulate sector policies and strategies, and enhance coordination capacity to
implement PRORURAL (Nicaragua’s Sector-wide Rural Development Program) through institutional strengthening of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG); Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA); and National
Forestry Institute (INAFOR); and developing a financial and impact monitoring and learning system for MAG.

Components added at project Additional Financing

3.         Capacity development for the production, organization and management of certified seeds enterprises. -
Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - US$1.73 million; actual costs US$1.73 million.
(i) fostering certified seed production capacity managed by INTA; and (ii) strengthening the managerial and marketing
skills of seed cooperatives and producers’ organizations.

4.        Establishment of a Credit Line for the production, processing and marketing of certified seed - Estimated
costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - US$3.51 million; actual costs US$3.13 million.
Establishing a rural financing system to provide a line of credit for the seed production system.

5.       Strengthening of public sector services within the National Seed System. - Estimated costs at appraisal
(base costs without contingencies) - US$4.01 million; actual costs US$4.69 million.
Strengthening of INTA’s Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology, the National Center for Agricultural Research
and Biotechnology and the Seed Certification Agency.

6.       Project Management. - Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - US$0.5 million;
actual costs US$0.5 million.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs. The project comprised an original design with an estimated cost at appraisal of US$28.0 million, plus
an expansion of the seed component assisted through Additional Financing (AF). Costs for expanding the seed
component were estimated at approval to be US$9.75 million. Actual costs at completion were US$26,22 million for
the original project and US$10.05 for the seed component.

Project Financing. Project financing was through an IDA Credit of US$12.00 million equivalent approved at appraisal;
and, through the Additional Financing for the expansion of the seed component, an IDA Grant of US$10.0 million
equivalent. Both the Credit and Grant were virtually fully disbursed. The project was co-financed through a Grant/Loan
of US$8.25 million from the International Fund for Agriculture Development of which US$7.57 million was disbursed,
and a Canadian trust fund of US$2.05 million, which was fully disbursed. Counterpart contributions were estimated at
Appraisal to be US$7.25 million (Government) and US$1.50 million from local farmer organizations. Actual
contributions at project completion were US$3.25 million from Government and $0.70 million from farmer
organizations. (The Government contribution may be an underestimate as project costing had not been completed at
the time of the ICR.)

Key Dates. The original project was approved on November 29, 2005, and the planned closing date was March 31,
2010, just under 4 ½ years after approval. After several extensions (refer below), the actual closing date was June 30,
2014, some 4 ¼ years beyond the original closing date. On May 10, 2010, the project was provided the AF Grant of
US$10 million (Grant H-537-NI). This was at Government’s request to scale-up the nation’s seed production program.

Restructurings. There were five restructurings, primarily involving minor re-allocations between categories and to
extend project closure dates as listed above. There were no changes to the project objective, but additional
components were added by the Additional Financing in May 2010 funded by the Global Food Crisis Response
Program which mainly expanded the seed development program in Nicaragua. A major restructuring which followed
on February 28, 2011 changed implementation responsibility for financing the seed cooperatives from the Rural Credit
Fund to a newly created bank – the Banco Produzcamos (BP).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
The project’s objectives contributed to the crucial need in Nicaragua to increase agricultural productivity and the
incomes of rural people. At the time of appraisal, Nicaragua’s per capita GDP was the second lowest in Latin America,
with 61 percent of the country’s population living in poverty or extreme poverty. Poverty in rural areas (64 percent of
the rural population) was much higher than in urban areas (29 percent of the citizens). The country was also one of
the most agriculture dependent nations in Latin America; agriculture contributing to 20 percent of GDP and 40 percent
of employment. But technological advancement was moribund, and agricultural growth was mainly from increased
exploitation of marginal lands. Compounding this, public expenditure allocated to increasing agricultural productivity
had been declining.

A further challenge was posed by Nicaragua’s ratification of the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade
Agreement in 2005, the year when the project was approved. The agreement provided market opportunities for
Nicaragua, but also a more competitive environment. Increasing agricultural productivity would require a major
stimulus of the sector, entailing amongst other needs: clear policies, strong institutions, effective research and
extension, and other services. In broad terms this had been recognized in various Government and Bank strategy
documents, and in the rural development program itself - the Productive Rural Development Program (PRORURAL)
discussed under Relevance of Design). Government’s National Development Plan (2005-2009), prioritized agricultural
growth, through improved agricultural technologies. These needs were further enhanced by the Global Food Crisis. In
response, an Emergency Food Price Response Project, approved in January, 2009,was intended to bring relief to the
most immediate food and input needs. The other prong of the response was the Second Agricultural Technology
Project (PTA-II), intended to be a medium and longer-term strategy to reduce the future vulnerability of food supply in
the future.

Throughout the project period, the Bank’s rural strategy has been consistent with these aims. The IDA Interim
Strategy Note (August 4, 2005) was oriented in particular to rural growth and poverty alleviation. The FY08-FY12
Country Partnership Strategy (October 11, 2007) had, as one of its main thrusts, the stimulation of productivity and
competitiveness. The strategy recognized that the means to this end had and would continue to require the kind of
interventions brought in by the project and, more broadly, at national level through the PRORURAL program. The
Relevance of PTA-II’s objectives was High.

b. Relevance of Design:

PTA-II’s Results Framework and Monitorable Indicators provided a good foundation of interlinked actions that could
be expected to improve agricultural services and enhance agricultural productivity. In the original PTA-II (before the
AF), sound choices were made in the project’s components, and institutional and operational aspects. Particularly
significant were: (i) the project was embedded in the national PRORURAL program and as such would stand the best
chance of contributing to the national rural development strategy. The PRORURAL program may or may not have
been fully consistent with the project's objectives (the ICR does not give a view on this), but it was the mainstream
program wherein PTA-II’s successful aspects could possibly have influence. This aspect of the project’s design –
responding to PTA-II’s objective to be “in line with the Recipient’s PRORURAL program” – was, thus, well conceived.
(ii) In line with this choice, existing Government institutions were used even though this would involve a complex web
of different agencies (refer below). And paralleling the involvement of such institutions, all requiring major capacity
building, considerable technical assistance was to be provided to them.

The main institutions associated with this project were: the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) which had
overall responsibility for managing the project; the Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA), responsible
for delivering basic and registered seeds to producers, contributing to the development of technologies and providing
technical assistance to farmers; the National Forestry Institute (INAFOR) responsible for developing technologies for
the forest sector and approval of forest management plans; the Nicaraguan Foundation for Agricultural and Forestry
Technological Development (FUNICA), providing matching grants to fund technical assistance and extension
proposals; the National Technological Institute (INATEC), responsible for providing financial and marketing training to
seed producers, and which took over these roles from FUNICA at the beginning of the AF; and the Producers Bank
(BP), which took over from the agency (Rural Credit Fund) originally intended agency to manage the line of credit. All
these institutions were operating in their respective areas of responsibility within the Government administration,
which were relevant to the project, and they were closely involved with the project. Therefore, the Relevance of
Design for this part of the project is rated Substantial.

For the AF, design was less satisfactory. The model chosen was to have cooperatives produce commercial seed
under a line of credit. Yet cooperatives had limited experience in seed production, and there was no past experience
providing credit for seed producers. The issue was compounded when Government, as the AF program was getting
underway, replaced the institution initially intended to provide the line of credit with another institution with minimal
experience. Also, for technical assistance to the cooperatives in areas such as marketing Government's replacement
of FUNICA by the inexperienced INATEC further weakened the institutional base for the project. The ICR comments
on this situation: "The AF underestimated the risk of this change in the financial sector" (referring to the cooperatives'
line of credit, ICR, page 19). And, "The design of the AF was built on assumptions about the capacity of the seed
producers to apply for credit, and ultimately overestimated their ability to do this within the AF's timeframe" (ICR page
8).
"
Under these circumstances, it could not be expected that a viable seed industry would develop in the relatively short
time period of the AF, which emerged as the case. An additional perspective is that there may have been options,
such as contracting directly with farmers, that might have been considered in parallel to the cooperatives program, but
the AF's Approach Paper did not explore any such options.

The Relevance of Design for the seed program is rated Modest. Since the AF Grant was over 80 percent of the
original Credit, the overall Relevance of Design for the project is assessed Modest.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The Project’s objectives comprise one overarching objective – "increasing agricultural productivity" – and a group of
supporting sub-objectives or outputs – "providing rural households and communities with broader access to
sustainable agricultural, forestry and natural resource management services, technology and innovations, in line with
the PRORURAL program."

For the Additional Financing, the overarching objective was the same but sub-objectives were focused on seed
production and credit.

The intended means (outputs) to achieve the overarching objective are considered first:

The Supporting Sub-Objectives (project outputs)

(a) Agricultural extension services improved:

    Technological packages increased from 134 to 196 packages, exceeding the appraisal target of 176.
    The number of participating farmers (who have adopted at least two new technologies) went from zero to 33,250
     which was 32 percent more than the appraisal target.
    All main field institutions increased the percentage of technical staff to all staff to achieve or exceed appraisal
     targets (although the ratios still appear high) - technical staff were 45 to 58 percent of total staff for MAGFOR, at,
     respectively, the beginning and the end of the project; 49 to 60 percent for INTA, 63 to 67 percent for INAFOR,
     and 54 to 60 percent for FUNICA). INAFOR exceeded its targeted number of participants, and completed a
     national forestry inventory (with financial assistance from FAO).
    The degree of “farmer satisfaction” with the agricultural research and extension services provided to them under
     APT-II was 82 percent (the target was 80 percent).

(b) Institutions improved:


    Institutional improvements were on a number of fronts, primarily through working with consultant specialists and
     through learning by doing. The ICR comments that the main involved agencies (MAG, INTA, INAFOR, INATEC
     and FUNICA) were strengthened and this spilled over into better capacity to implement the PRORURAL program
     itself.
    The MAG improved its general capacity to be the lead agency in the rural sector. Also, the M&E system
     introduced by the project was taken a step further – to handle M&E for the entire PRORURAL program (Section
     10).
    Importantly for financial sustainability, the budgets of all three main operating agencies – MAG, INTA and
     INAFOR – were taken over by Government after project completion. For the original PTA-II (i.e. excluding the
     AF). the efficacy of the objective to provide improved agricultural services to farmers was substantial.

(c) The seed development program had mixed results:

    On the one hand, after a slow start, primarily because of replacement of the two core institutions for operating the
     seed/credit program (FCR and FUNICA), most of the objectives were eventually achieved. Some 369 MT of
     foundation and registered seed were produced (the appraisal target was 230 MT); 1435 producers became
     involved in seed production (appraisal target 1,200 producers); and 39 cooperatives were established (target 31
     cooperatives). Other achievements included establishing a certification system for seed, an operational genetic
     seed center (targets achieved), and build-up of production of genetic, fountain and basic grains (76 percent
     achieved).
     A gap was that technical assistance to cooperatives in seed marketing was limited, diminishing cooperative
     revenues.
    Of more serious concern, the cooperatives are financially fragile institutions, and the line of credit appears in
                                                                             th
     critical shape. The ICR comments (page 12) that “As of November 30 , 2014, BP had a total of outstanding
     credits of approximately US$1.8 million, with a repaid amount of US$ 803,000 and a default rate of 23.26
     percent. Thus, in effect, a viable and sustainable seed supply program was not established. Seed production was
     the main activity under the AF. Hence, the AF’s efficacy was Modest.

 Overall achievements improving rural services were positive:

Taking both the original PTA-II’s and AF’s accomplishments together, the overall efficacy of the objective to improve
rural services was, is, on balance Substantial. In general, other than the seed program, the various agricultural
services developed considerably, and even the seed program met it’s physical targets. Thus, while its design was
weak, implementation of the seed program partly picked-up from its problematic start, although financial viability was
not achieved. But the ICR advises that the capacity of BP has improved over time,

The overarching objective - Increasing Agricultural Productivity:

    The ICR reports (through comparisons of the National Survey for Impact Evaluation of PTA I in 2005 and results
     of an Impact Evaluation of PTA- II in 2013) an increase between 2005 and 2013 in maize yields of 336 kg/ha, and
     in the same period an increase in yield of beans of 150 kg/ha.
    The “Productivity Indices” of participating farmers averaged 16 percent (the Appraisal target was 15 percent).
     (The Productivity Index measures the increase in yields of beneficiary farmers compared with increases in the
     national average yields.)
    There was little difference between the index for the two major crops (the productivity index of maize was 15
     percent and the index for beans was 18 percent), but a larger range is notable between different crop varieties
     (some seed varieties yielding 60 percent or more increases in yields).
    Crop diversification is also greater for project areas – 81 percent of beneficiary farmers planted more than two
     crops compared with 74 percent for a control group. Average annual gross incomes of project participants were
     43 percent higher than non-participating producers.

The above indicators suggest a significant increase in productivity of participating farmers. This is consistent with the
improvements in agricultural services found for the supporting objective reviewed above, and the satisfaction
expressed by farmers for these services. Hence, the project’s Efficacy for the overarching objective to increase
agricultural productivity is assessed Substantial.

 5. Efficiency:
  The ICR contains an analysis of PTA-II economic viability using the same methodology as used at appraisal, but
substituting actual data on costs and yields. An ERR for the seed program was not calculated, but the discussion of
productivity in Section 4 indicates the positive influence of improved seed, and is in line with international experience.
The yield data comes from the 2013 Impact Evaluation Survey, and the ICR’s analysis followed standard practices.
On this basis, the ICR finds an ERR of about 43 percent, which compares with the appraisal estimate of 17 percent.
The difference, as also pointed out in the ICR, was substantially influenced by the project’s 25 percent increase,
compared with appraisal expectations, of the number of farmers under the agricultural extension program.

As concern’s PTA-II’s operational efficiency, the project met or exceeded practically all implementation targets while
the total project costs were about 4 percent below appraisal estimates. An evident shortfall was the doubling of the
credit period (by 4 ½ years). However, this primarily reflected the decision to add a new activity rather than slow
disbursement of the original project (at the time of approval of the AF, about $9.9 million of the $12 million original
credit had been disbursed).

Based on the project’s estimated economic viability and, in most respects, positive operational efficiency, PTA-II’s
Efficiency is rated Substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                    Point Value                  Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                17%                            100%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                43%                            100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

PTA-II’s objectives were highly relevant. Project design substantially responded to these objectives in the case of the
original PTA-II’s support to improved agricultural services. But the relevance of design for the seed program funded
under the Additional Financing, was over-ambitious given the low capacity of the institutions and cooperatives
concerned. The efficacy for agricultural services was substantial, but modest for the seed production program (27
percent of actual project costs) financed by the AF, as the credit line, with a default rate of 23 percent, is not
sustainable. Agricultural productivity increased - the over-riding objective of the project - and the project was
economically viable. However, an otherwise successful outcome is pulled down by the difficulties of the seed
program, and overall project Outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory .

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The PRORURAL program itself is likely to be the main driver sustaining the multiple institutions involved and the
activities that PTA-II and its AF have introduced. PRORURAL has the strong backing of Government, and the web of
donor activities could likely be adapted to support follow-on activities. Also, farmers are unlikely to abandon the more
profitable activities that they have adopted. The institutional matrix also looks robust given that the agencies’
competencies improved during the project; and greater financial security is expected now that MAG and INTA are fully
financed by Government.

Nevertheless, a number of issues remain, in particular as concerns the seed-credit program. Most cooperatives are
still fragile and need continuing technical assistance; the Banco Produzcamo still has limited experience; the Credit
Revolving Fund has a high default rate; and seed marketing outlets and storage are insufficient. Until such issues are
resolved PTA-II’s Risk to Development Outcome will be Significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    For the original ATP-II, the decisions made at design stage were generally sound. The Results Framework was
clearly articulated, project features were largely practical, and situating the project within the PRORURAL program
using existing institutional responsibilities, provided for a more replicable project impact.

But quality at entry for the Additional Financing was uneven for an expeditious implementation. The
credit-cooperative seed production model chosen, had questionable features (Section 3b), and changes made by
Government in institutional responsibilities, rendered it even less suitable. In such circumstances, a redesign of
the AF component might have been a better choice than moving forwards without adjusting the model.

Balancing the positive quality at entry of the original ATP-II against the weaker design of the AF component,
APT-II’s overall Quality at Entry was Moderately Satisfactory .


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    An outstanding feature of project supervision was the Bank team’s outreach, in close association with
Government, to play an informal coordinating role with other donors involved with the PRORURAL program (about
19 development agencies). Coordination included joint supervision missions for donors with activities relevant to
ATP-II, the convening, with Government, of regular donor meetings, and facilitating alignment of donor activities to
the best synergistic impact for PRORURAL. Other supervision features were sound. Missions were regular (about
twice yearly), and the team worked closely with the implementing agencies to expedite project progress and
resolve bottlenecks. There were also visits by Bank procurement, disbursement and financial management teams.
The Bank’s Supervision Performance was Satisfactory.

The overall performance of the Bank was Moderately Satisfactory . Quality at entry for the original PTA-II was
good, and supervision performance was also sound. But the design for the AF's seed production program did not
take adequate stock of the implementation issues that could be expected to arise with an approach reliant on
significant institutional capacity and experience to make it workable.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     The Nicaragua Government (senior political and executive levels) was strongly committed to the project and to
its overall rural development thrust under the PRORURAL program. The project was followed closely and
facilitating actions were taken as needed. There was a strong working relationship with the Bank. But this highly
satisfactory performance was not matched by two institutional actions that impeded the project’s AF stage. First,
the transfer of rural finance to the new Banco Produzcamos, completely without experience, just as arrangements
for the AF were being made. And second, the transfer of responsibilities for capacity building as well as the
financial and marketing skills for cooperatives from a well-performing agency (FUNICA) to another agency
(INATEC) which had minimal experience in these areas.. If such institutional changes are considered needed to
be in line with overall policy changes (BP was one such new agency, and also took over a number of other
programs and projects), special arrangements or technical assistance to INATEC and BP might have been
considered. Balancing the strong general performance of Government with these two decisions, the overall
Performance of Government was Moderately Satisfactory .


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Four of the six agencies implementing the project achieved their targets, and one (the newly formed (BP)
significantly improved: (i) the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG)’s overall project management improved
over the project implementation period; (ii) the Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA) did well in
delivering basic and registered seeds to producers, and contributing to the promotion of the new technologies; (iii)
the National Forestry Institute (INAFOR), after a slow start, effectively promoted new forestry technologies and
improved nine-fold more forest plans than intended; and the Nicaraguan Foundation for Agricultural and Forestry
Technological Development (FUNICA) performed solidly in funding technical assistance and extension proposals.
Even the newly established Banco Produzcamos (BP) progressively improved to handle its assigned role. The
National Technological Institute (INATEC) however, performed weakly in its role as a trainer for seed
cooperatives in marketing and financial management. Nevertheless, given that INATEC’s role in the project was
relatively small, the overall Performance of the Implementing Agencies is rated Satisfactory.

Concerning the overall performance of the borrower, decisions by Government to change institutional roles, were
deleterious to project implementation, and performance of one of the implementing agencies was weak. The
Overall Performance of the Borrower was Moderately Satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   A centralized M&E program was established for the PRORURAL program; a planning and strategy unit was
established at MAG, to manage the M&E unit and track project progress; and a monitoring plan was devised for each
participating institution. When the AF was added, a monitoring module was created to measure the seed program’s
progress. The M&E system’s design effectively covered the project’s monitorable indicators for the agricultural
services (although the indicators, could have been more comprehensive on the overarching objective to increase
agricultural productivity). A broader program for monitoring productivity was developed in the impact surveys (see
below). Other design aspects were comprehensive

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The system above was established and implemented. An Impact Evaluation was carried out by independent
consultants in 2013, near the end of the project. This could also be used to provide comparisons with the 2005 Impact
Evaluation Survey conducted under ATP-I.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E system proved a useful management tool for assessing project progress and impact, and in due course it
was charged with also monitoring the PRORURAL program as a whole, and became a valuable tool for coordinating
the program.

In summary, there were some gaps in designing the M&E program for measurement of productivity, but; given that a
multiagency M&E/MIS system was established, that the 2013 Impact Evaluation Survey somewhat expanded M&E of
productivity, and that the project M&E system became the M&E focal point for all of the PRORURAL program, the
overall achievement and Quality of M&E was Substantial.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category B and triggered the following safeguards: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP
4.01); Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09) and Indigenous People’s (OP/BP 4.10).
Project safeguard related actions are assessed in the ICR to have been satisfactory based on review by the Bank's
safeguards specialist.

Most project activities had positive environmental impacts– for instance, through improved land conservation
practices, and reduced pesticide use due to integrated pest management (although disposal of the plastic containers
for pesticides was an issue eventually mitigated through training of cooperatives in proper disposal, and providing
disposal systems at municipal levels). For indigenous persons, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, and a
Participation Plan were prepared. The ICR comments that “no specific management actions were identified ….. by any
World Bank Mission.” (It would have been more informative if the reasons for this had been mentioned.)

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management. No cases of malfeasance are reported in the ICR, but audit reports were often late, and the
agencies were sometimes slow to comply with the recommendations in the audit reports. At project completion, timely
and high quality financial management performance had not yet been achieved.

Procurement. The Task Team advised IEG that dealing with the low procurement and financial management capacity
of the implementing agencies (through staff technical assistance and provision of training) required inordinate staff
time during project supervision, and timely and quality performance in procurement and finance had still not been fully
achieved by project completion.

In summary, although ratings for financial management and procurement were raised to Moderately Satisfactory by
the end of the project, weak implementation capacity in these areas, and the limited authority of MAG to require timely
reporting from the other implementing agencies, impeded financial management and procurement implementation
throughout most of the project period.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately            Line of credit and cooperatives still not
                                                            Satisfactory          financially viable.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant           Seed cooperatives and the line of credit
                     Outcome:                                                     Bank not yet financially secure.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately            Good performance in most respects, but
                                                            Satisfactory          over-ambitious design of the
                                                                                  cooperatives/credit based seed production
                                                                                  program.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately            Government's changes in institutional
                                                            Satisfactory          responsibilities impaired project
                                                                                  performance.
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following main general lessons, adapted from the ICR, are drawn from the project experience,:


(a)      A sector-wide platform to help coordinate donors and government agencies, although challenging, can
promote more efficient sector investment and more harmonized sector strategic planning. The project was designed
to support the national PRORURAL program using existing institutions, following their normal mandates.
Considerable efforts were made by both the Bank and Government to coordinate and harmonize the programs of
other donors to also support PRORURAL. This leveraged a greater overall effectiveness of donor programs, giving
PTA-II a larger impact than its small size would have enabled without the project’s coordination role.

(b)      Institutional capacity to undertake a program needs assessment of implementation capability. The
cooperatives and a newly created bank were embarking on new activities and they took time to acquire the skills
required. More in-depth assessment of institutional capacity might have led to changes in the design of the AF, or
more intensive technical support.

(c)         Seed production by farmers or cooperatives needs not just a financing mechanism but may also need
marketing and storage infrastructure. The project promoted agricultural research and extension, and a line of
credit, but, until the partial remedies later in the project period, there was still a gap in marketing processes and
facilities, and in storage.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is an informative and thoughtful discussion of the project’s achievements and issues encountered. It is
analytically oriented and candid in discussing the more difficult performance areas. Relevant data is clearly presented
for the Monitorable Indicators. Several annexes (on the impact evaluation surveys, stakeholder workshop and a
summary of the borrower’s ICR) enrich the main text and provide variations in perspectives. Two areas could have
been further developed. First, given that increasing agricultural productivity was the project’s objective, more data
indicating productivity (some such data are in different parts of the report), and a brief summary of survey
methodologies, use of controls and sampling would have given a better assessment of the reliability of the data.
Second, the learning from the seed-credit program, might have had a more expanded discussion given that this was
the project’s primary issue. Overall, however, the ICR is a strong product and is rated Satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
