LA  6q5M-PAG
FILE  COPY                             RESTRICTED
Report No.  PTR-51a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
May Z7, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           = Australian $ (A$) (divided into 100 cents)
US$1                    - A$0.89
A$1                     - US$1.12
A$1 Million             - US$1,120,000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1       -          June 30
Systems of Weights and Measures: British/U.S.
British/U.S.: Metric Equivalents
1 mile (mi)                   = 1.6 kilometers (km)
1 foot (ft)                   = 30.5 centimeters (cm)       2
1 square mile (sq mi)         = 2.59 square kilometers (kmi)
1 long ton (lg ton)           = 1.02 metric tons (m ton)
1 short ton (sh ton)          = 0.91 metric ton (m ton)
Abbreviations used in the Report
The Government                - The Government of Australia
The Territory                 - The Territory of Papua and New Guinea
The Administration            - The Administration of the Territory
of Papua and New Guinea
PWD                           - Department of Public Works (of the
Territory)
CDW                           - Commonwealth Department of Works (of
Australia)
1964 Survey Mission           - The Economic Survey Mission to the
Territory sponsored by the
Bank in 1963/64
UNDP Consultants              - Consultants for the 1968-69 UNDP-
financed Transport Survey
vpd                           - Vehicles per day (both directions
included)
NRT                           - Net Registered Tonnage
voc                           - Vehicle operating costs



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................................i
1.    INTRODIUCTION .............................................                      1
2.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION  ...................................1
A.    Geographic and Demographic  ..........................1
B.    The Economy  .........................................                    1
C.    The Highlands  .......................................                     2
I).   The Transportation Sector ...........................                      3
F.    Transport Administration and Planning  ....                ...........     5
3.    THE HIGHWAY SYSTEM  .......................................                      6
A.    The Highway Network  .................................                     6
B.    Highway Traffic  .....................................                     6
C.    Hlighwav Administration  ..............................                    7
D.    Highway Planning  ....................................                     8
E.    Highway Financing  ...................................                     9
F.    Engineering and Execution of Highway Work  ....                .......    10
4.    THE PROJECT  ..............................................                     10
A.   G(eneral D)escription and Purpose  .....................                   10
B.    Roads to be Improved and Developed  ..................                    12
C.    Roads to be Engineered ..............................                    13
D.    Engineering and Supervision of Project Works  ... .....                  14
E.    Iechnical Assistance  ................................                   14
F.    Fellowships  .........................................                   14
G.    Cost Estimate anl  'Off-Shore' Component of Cost .....                    15
Fl.    Project Execution and Financing  .....................                  17
I.    Disbursement  ........................................                   18
This report was written by Messrs.  P. 0. Malone  (Engineer), R.D. Fletcher
(Economist)  and  i. Hansen  (Economist) on the basis of an appraisal mission
in l)ecember 1969.



-2-
I'age No.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................       18
A.   General   ...........................................      13
B.   The South Wahgi Highway ...........................       19
C.  The Southern Highlands flighway ....      ................  20
D.  Second Access to the Highlands ....       ................  21
6.   RECOMIIENDATIONS   ........................................     2
TABLES
1.  Freight Movements on the hlighlands Highway
2. Mileages of Trafficable Vehicular Roads - 1967
3. Vehicle Fleet
4. Air Freight Movements at Highland Airports 1963-8
5. Administration Expenditures on Roads and Bridges
6. Revenues from Use and Ownership of Vehicles
7. PWD Design Standards
8. Highway Project - Cost Estimate
9. Traffic Volumes on Project Roads 1069-91
10. Typical Vehicle Operating Costs
11. Maintenance and Vehicle Operating Costs on Project Roads
12. Economic Evaluation of Project Roads
ANNEX     Details of Roads to be Improved and Developed
MAP       Papua and New Cuinea - Highwav Project.



PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for improvement of the road
system within the Highlands of the interior of Papua and New Guinea,
and for development of a new road access to the Highlands from the coast.
ii.       Historically, the Territory of Papua and New Guinea developed
from the coast inland, and the economy, even today, is based largely on
enclaves which developed around ports in earlier years. An exception to
this pattern of coastal enclaves are the Highlands, a fertile and in-
creasingly important area in the western part of the interior of the
Territory, where development, supported initially by the aeroplane,
started only a few decades ago.
iii.      The road system developed with the economy.  Much of the sys-
tem is therefore contained within coastal enclaves and comprises separate
sub-systems radiating from ports and generally terminating a short dis-
tance inland. The exception is the 'Highlands Highway' completed about
four years ago; it is a road over 300 miles long running from the port
of Lae, on the northeast coast of the Territory, to the Highlands, and
specifically to Mount Hagen, the administrative and commercial center of
the western part of the Highlands. This road is tortuous, often diffi-
cult for trucks to negotiate, and is frequently closed because of land
slides, yet it currently forms the only vehicular access to this impor-
tant area.
iv.       The economy of the Highlands is booming.  Consultants who re-
cently carried out a UNDP-financed transport survey for which the Bank was
executing agency forecast that the economy of the area would maintain a
rate of growth of at least 10% per annum during the coming decade.
V.        Although the opening of the Highlands Highway reduced freight
costs from the coast and led to a marked shift from air to road in the
tonnages moved into the Highlands, road freight is still too expensive
and there is need for better roads in the area and for a more reliable
access from the coast. The Territory's Development Program for 1969-1973
thus rightly gives priority in the transportation sector to improvement
of roads within and to the Highlands. This priority was endorsed by the
UNDP Consultants and is now reflected in the project which this report
appraises.
vi.       ln detail, the project - the first Bank Group project in the
transportation sector in the Territory - comprlses improvement or devel-
opment of, and engineering services for, 93 miles of road in the High-
lands and engineering of a further 135 miles of road, including that for
a new road access to the Highlands from the coast at Madang. There are
also small provisions for technical assistance and for fellowships. The
project is estimated to cost about US$ 13.1 million equivalent, of which



- ii -
about 88% would be for road construction and associated services and
about 10% for detailed engineering. The rates of return on the invest-
ment in individual roads vary between 15% and 40%, the higher rate of
return being due to substantial route shortening on one road.
vii.      The Territory uses Australian currency and the conventional
breakdown of project costs into "local" and "foreign" currency elements
is not applicable. An "off-shore" element of cost has been defined as
including costs originating in Australia and other overseas countries and
was calculated at US$9.0 million equivalent (or about 70% of project cost).
viii.     Engineering of the civil works was carried out both by consul-
tants and by the Department of Public Works (PWD), and is virtually com-
plete. Retroactive financing of this item (representing about 5% of
project cost) is recommended. The Department intends to retain consultants
to supervise the work and to carry out the detailed engineering of the ad-
ditional roads.
ix.       The PWD intends to group the civil works into three contracts,
ranging in size from $ 2.1 million to $ 3.7 million with bidders being
given the option of bidding for any one or more contracts. There are no
indigenous contractors in the Territory capable of executing more than
minor works; there are however, locallv-based foreign (mainlv Australian)
contractors who should be attracted by the size of the proposed contracts.
The latter should attract, also, large foreign firms not yet established
in the Territory. Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines.
x.        The PWD would be the agency responsible for executing the project.
The UNDP Consultants recently recommended changes in the organization of the
Department and in its procedures, and the Government has notified the Bank
Group of its intention to effect certain changes in these aspects of the
Department, taking into account the Consultants' recommendations.
xi.       The project is suitable for Bank Group financing totaling
US$ 9.0 million equivalent, the estimated "off-shore" element of project
cost; the proportion financed by the Bank should be repayable over 20
years, with a four-year grace period. Costs in the Territory of the project
would be financed from the Territory's budget.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Australia ('the Government') has asked the
Bank and the Association to help finance a highway project in the Terri-
tory of Papua and New Guinea ('the Territory'). The proposed project is
estimated to cost about A$ 11.7 million (US$ 13.1 million equivalent),
of which the road construction and associated services would account for
about 88%. The 'off-shore' element of project cost is estimated at about
US$ 9.0 million equivalent. This would be the first Bank Group lending
in the transportation sector.
1.02      The origin of the project can be traced back some six or seven
years. In 1963/64 the Bank sponsored an Economic Survey Mission to the
Territory (the '1964 Survey Mission'). In 1967, the Bank sent an eco-
nomic mission to review developments since the Survey Mission and follow-
ing this latter mission, the Bank assisted the Government prepare a re-
quest to the UNDP to help finance a Transport Survey in the Territory;
such a survey was carried out in 1968/69 with the Bank as executing
agency. The consultants for the Survey (the 'UNDP Consultants') - Sir
William Halcrow and Partners, UK - endorsed the current policy of the
Administration of the Territory ('the Administration'), which assigns
investment priority in the transportation sector to development of the
highway system. The project is based on the findings of the Survey, and
the civil works and engineering included in the project represent, in
general, the highest priorities in the consultants' recommended highway
development program.
1.03      This report has been prepared by Messrs. P.O. Malone (engineer),
R.D. Fletcher (economist) and H. Hansen (economist), who appraised the
project in December, 1969.
2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
A.   Geographic and Demographic
2.01      The Territory consists of Papua, which is a dependency of
Australia, and New Guinea, which is administered by Australia as a
trusteeship of the United Nationis. Physically it comprises the eastern
half of the island of New Guinea and some 600 islands, and has a land
area of about 184,000 sq mi (about the same size as Iraq, Spain or
Sweden) spread over some 800,000 sq mi of the western Pacific Ocean.
The indigenous population numbers about 2.3 million and is growing at
2.4% p.a. The non-indigenous population numbers about 40,000 and has
been increasing by more than 6% p.a. over the past decade.
B.   The Economy
2.02      The Territory is at an early stage of development, with an
economy based on primary production. The non-monetized sector, which
provides the indigenous population with most of its necessities, ac-
counts for about 50% of the GNP and is growing at an estimated 2% p.a.



- 2 --
The monetized sector is valued at about A$ 200 million and has been grow-
ing at more than 10% p.a. in real terms, over the last 15 years; in this
sector, agriculture, livestock rearing and fisheries account for more than
30%, while administration and professional services - performed mainly by
expatriates - account for a further 23%. The economy is heavily dependent
on external trade; imports are currentlv valued at about A$ 150 million
p.a., whilst exports, mainly coffee, cocoa and coconut palm products, are
valued at about A$ 70 million p.a. including A$ 10 million of re-exports.
2.03      The per capita GNP of the indigenous population is about A$ 90
p.a. (US$ 100 p.a.), whilst that of the expatriates is about AS 3,600
p.a. (US$ 4,000 p.a. - roughly the level in the United States).
C.   The Highlands
2.04      Historically economic activity in the Territory was based on
centers such as Rabaul (New Britain), Port Moresby (Papua), and Lae and
Madang (New Guinea), which were traditionally supplied by sea, but later
by air also. These centers were, however, no more than economic enclaves,
and little development took place in the interior of the Territorv.
2.05      In the last few decades the economic potential of the interior,
notably of the Highlands in the west-central part of the Territory, has
been recognized. Economic activity there was initially supported almost
entirely by air. Gradually, however, a road was developed from the port
of Lae, and was completed about 1966. Today the road - the so-called
'Highlands Highway' - runs 327 miles from Lae to Mount Hagen, the admin-
strative center of the Western Highlands District, providing a land access,
albeit a somewhat difficult and unreliable one, (para. 4.09), to the High-
lands and to the estimated one million people living there.
2.06      The Highlands consist essentially of four districts, with dis-
trict administrations located at Goroka, Kundiawa, Mount Hagen and Mendi.
At present the cash economies of these districts are relativelv undeveloped,
but rapid development of cash crops, notably tea, coffee and pyrethrum, is
taking place, and will be accompanied by development of light manufactur-
ing industries and of tourism. The UNDP Consultants estimated that during
the coming decade economic growth of the area will be maintained at a mini-
num of 10% p.a.
2.07      With nearly half of the Territory's population living in the
area, and with the favorable forecast of sustained economic growth, the
Highlands appear poised to play a major role in the economic development
of the Territory. The proposed project would concentrate on needed road
access to, and road improvement within, the Highlands.



-3-
D.   The Transportation Sector
a.   General
2.08      The terrain of the 'mainland' of the Territory is unfavorable
for development of land transportation inwards from the ports. Generally
the coastal plain is narrow and is terminated abruptly by formidable
mountain ranges; even where the plain extends some distance inland, as
in the south-western part of the mainland, it tends to be intersected
by major rivers and to be low-lying and swampy. As a result the major
trade movements are external. Both the value of this external trade
(para. 2.02), and the tonnage are unbalanced, the tonnage of imports
being about 2-1/2 times that of exports. On the Highlands highway, the
imbalance is even greater; in 1968, for example, freight inland from Lae
was about 82,000 tons, while that outwards was some 25,000 tons, a ratio
of 3 to 1. In 1969, the imbalance was greater, 107,000 tons inwards and
26,000 tons outwards - a ratio in excess of 4 to 1. Further details on
these and other freight movements on the Highway are given in Table 1.
b.   HighwAy  ransport
2.09      Before World War II road transport played a very minor role in
the Territory. Since the War, however, the road system has been expanded
considerably, but nevertheless it is still comparatively limited for a
countrv the size of the Territory. Lack of reliable data on the extent
of the system year by year since the War precludes a calculation of an-
nual growth, but it is estimated that the system mileage of about 7,500
miles (Table 2) in 1967 - the last time that the roads were inventoried -
represents a four-fold increase during the post-War period. The vehicle
fleet, more than half of which consists of motor cars, station wagons and
motorcycles, has increased by about 17% p.a. since 1963 and now numbers
more than 25,000 (Table 3).
c.   Ports and Ship inS
2.10      The Territory has about 50 ports of various sizes, eight of
which (Port Moresby, Lae, Madang, Wewak, Samarai, on the mainland, and
Rabaul, Kavieng and Lorengau on the islands) handle overseas trade. In
addition there are numerous jetties and beach landing points for coastal
vessels. Cargo handled at the major ports totaled 1.3 million tons in
1967/68, representing an annual increase of about 11.5% over the previous
five years. Imports handled at the major ports increased by about 16%
p.a. over this period, while exports increased by only 8% p.a.
2.11      Overseas shipping services are provided by nine companies.
Coastal and inter-island services are provided by those companies and
by about 140 small vessels, (average size about 40 NRT), mostly owned
and operated by trading companies and plantation owners for their own
use; only irregularly do they provide public service.



- 4 -
2.12      The UNDP Consultants proposed that the Harbours Board, which
was established in 1967 following a recommendation of the 1964 Survey
mission, should extend its responsibility to seven secondary ports, in
addition to the six major ports already under its jurisdiction. The
Consultants further proposed investments of A$ 5.2 million in the main
ports and of A$ 4.4 million in other ports, these investments to be
financed in part by increases in port charges and license fees. The
Government is still studying the Consultants' report and to date has
taken no action on these specific proposals. It is, however, actively
considering extension of the Harbour Board's responsibility to four
of the seven secondary ports named by the Consultants.
d.   Civil Aviation
2.13      Air transport is the major mode of passenger travel both in-
ternally and between the Territory and other countries; passenger traffic
has been increasing steadily by about 16% p.a. in recent years. Freight
is also moved by air, particularly to the more isolated areas, but the
importance of air freight has declined substantially in recent years
(para. 2.16).
2.14      Airports and airstrips numbered 395 in June 1968, but only two,
those at Port Moresby and Lae, are used for scheduled international
flights; only the airport at Port Moresby can handle the largest jet
aircraft. The Territory is adequately served by international flights.
Internally, scheduled services are operated by five companies, and charter
services by those five and by a further 16 companies, licensed for charter
operations only.
2.15      Although air services are provided almost exclusively by
Australian companies, fares and freight rates in the Territory are much
higher than those obtaining in Australia. This is because the airline
companies have to carry the burden of flying some commercially unprofit-
able routes, in order to meet the administrative needs of the Territory.
E.   Transport Coordination
2.16      The manner in which transportation developed in the Territory
in earlier years provided little danger of inter-modal competition. Re-
cent developments, however, have cut across earlier modal monopolies and
have had a considerable effect on the balance between modes. The exten-
sion of the road system into the Highlands, previously an area monopolized
by air transport, provides the most striking example of such developments.
Air transport into the Highlands grew at a vigorous pace until about 1964.
At that time the Highlands Highway was being constructed and it was com-
pleted by about 1966/67. In the period 1964/68 although the tonnage of
freight into the Highlands increased by about 20% p.a., the tonnage air-
freighted to Highlands airports declined by about 22% p.a. (see Table 4).
Most of the air freight to the Highlands was flown from Madang; a second-
ary effect of this shift from air to road, and therefore to the port of
Lae, is an under-utilization of facilities - wharves, hotels, commercial
installations - at Madang.



-5-
2.17      The above example indicates that coordination of investment
between modes must now be considered seriously in the Territory; it also
indicates that the whole transportation system relevant to a proposed
investment should be defined and, ideally, the implications for each
mode quantified. Unfortunately in the Territory it is not always pos-
sible to identify modal costs on a comparable basis because of limited
statistical information and because the three relevant transport modes,
air, road and sea (there are no railways) are often subject to different
degrees of market freedom, taxation and subsidy.
2.18      The UNDP Consultants recognized these shortcomings.  With a
view to increasing the scope for rational investment decisions in the
sector as a whole, the consultants recommended that (i) collection of
relevant statistical information on a contlnuing basis and (ii) a study
of the inequalities of treatment of modes, should both be made part of
the responsibility of the proposed Department of Transportation (para.
2.20).
F.   Transport Administration and Planning
2.19      Prior to 1967, responsibility for transportation was shared
among several departments of the Administration and Government. In that
year a Coordinator of Transport was appointed, and in 1968 a Directorate
of Transport was set up and given responsibility for policy and planning
in all forms of land and sea transport, air transport remaining largely
within the jurisdiction of the Government Department of Civil Aviation.
2.20      The UNDP Consultants recommended the immediate establishment
of a Department of Transportation broadly on the lines recommended by
the 1964 Survey Mission. The main functions of this Department - which
would be directly responsible to the Administration - would be:
(i)  to develop policy for land, sea and air transportation
throughout the Territory;
(ii)  to undertake the necessary economic studies and surveys
related to all modes;
(iii)  to prepare, evaluate and revise as necessary the capital
and recurrent expenditure plans for all modes to meet the
requirements of consumers, operators and departments of
the Administration, and
(iv) to regulate and administer each of the modes.
The Consultants' recommendations on the Department of Transportation were
acceptable to Government, but they are still considering the detailed
arrangements for the establishment of the Department.



2.21      Specifically as regardls highwavs the Department of Transporta-
tion, would operate in conjunction with the Public Works Department (PWD),
the department responsible, inter alia, for most of the road contruction
and major road maintenance in the Territory. The Department of Transpor-
tation would define highway needs in broad terms; these needs would then
be designed and costed by the PWD as specific projects. Such projects would
then be considered by the Department of Transportation on economic grounds,
and in the context of other modes, and if acceptable, would be forwarded
to the Administration for consideration (para. 3.08). In brief, the Depart-
ment of Transportation would supply the economic expertise for the develop-
ment of highway projects, and the PWD would continue to supply the technical
expertise. This is a reasonable arrangement.
3. THF HIGHWAY SYSTEM
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      Rural roads in the Territory are currently classified as (i)
primary, (ii) major secondary, (iii) secondary, (iv) feeder, (v) access,
and (vi) intermittent access, according to the physical characteristics
of road and pavement and to whether the road is considered 'seasonal' or
all-weather. This classification represents a gradation of standard from
a 28-ft road with a pavement of width not less than 18 ft ('primary'), to
a motorable track, generally unpaved and wlth no uniform engineering char-
acteristics ('intermittent access').
3.02      Details of the Territory highway system, based on an inventory
compiled in 1967, are given in Table 2. The total length, including urban
roads, was then about 7,500 miles. The system is concentrated in coastal
enclaves and the Highlands Highway network, and any ratios on coverage
would not fairly reflect the uneven distribution.
B.   Highway Traffic
3.03      As a result of a general absence of inter-district roads, freight
traffic is at a low level, and haulage is over relatively short distances.
An exception is the Highlands Highway which carries an average traffic of
about 200 vpd, much of it heavy trucks to and from the coast. Trucks are
mainly owned and operated by trading firms to meet their own needs, and
little service is available for public use.
3.04      Because of the disparity between export and import tonnages for
the Territory as a whole, road freight movements are unbalanced; this im-
balance, combined with a lack of public transport and with the poor con-
dition of many roads, makes for high road freight charges of up to A$ 0.33
(US$ 0.37 equivalent) per ton mile. Road traffic statistics in terms of
passenger miles and ton miles are not available, but high rates of in-
crease in the number of vehicles registered in recent years (Table 3) are
indicative of a rapid growth of both passenger and freight traffic. This



- 7 -
lack of statistical data is a deficiency which should be rectified in the
ifterests of logical planning of transportation facilities. An assurance
that information on road traffic would henceforth be collected on a regu-
lar basis was obtained during negotiations.
C. Highway Administration
3.05      Responsibility for construction of all roads (other than private
roads built, for example, by timber or plantation companies), and mainte-
nance of the more important rural ones, is shared between the PWD and the
Commonwealth Department of Works, (CDW), Australia's federal works organi-
sation; the PWD, however, executes the greater part of this work. Main-
tenance of less important rural roads and of urban roads is the respon-
sibilitv of the Territory's Department of District Administration and of
local councils. The system is generally adequately maintained, and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that maintenance would continue
at a satisfactory level and that weights and dimensions of vehicles
permitted to use the system would be compatible with its physical and
structural properties.
3.06      The PWD - the Department which would be responsible for execut-
ing the proposed project - is a competent but relatively small department;
it consists of about 400 professionals, sub-professionals and administra-
tive personnel, mainly Australian, and a labor force of about 2,000. To
supplement the resources of the PWD, the Administration uses CDW both as
a consultant and as construction agency.
3.07      The UNDP Consultants, in late 1969, recommended that CDW be
gradually phased out of work in the Territory, to enable the PWD to func-
tion properly as a sole works organization, and that control of works
should be concentrated more in the Territory and less in Australia. Gov-
ernment has already delegated some measure of responsibility for control
of works to the Administration, but the pace of delegation should be
quickened. To this end Government, taking into account the UNDP Con-
sultants' report,
(i) is pursuing a policy which will gradually phase out CDW
working in the Territory, thus enabling PWD to assume
responsibility for all public works,
(ii)  is reorganising PWD, will review its organisational needs
annually, and will staff the Department accordingly,
(iii)  in the interests of retaining valuable expertise for the
benefit of the Territory, will take steps to reduce turnover
of expatriate staff in the Department,
(iv)  will define and implement the financial, administrative and
operational procedures needed to obtain maximum efficiency
in the PWD, and
(v) is expanding PWD's training program to cover all levels in
the Department.



- 8 -
Assurances on Government's intentions on (i) through (v), above, and on a
broad timetable for their implementation, were obtained during negotiations.
D.   Highway Planning
3.08      The planning procedure involves initial submission by any con-
cerned agency, public or private, of an identifled project to the Co-
ordinator of Transportation (the forerunner of the Department of Transpor-
tation). Assuming that the project is technically and economically feasible
and the impact on other modes is acceptable, the project is referred to the
Administrator (of the Territory). If the Administrator accepts the sub-
mission the project is included on a "needs list" which must be approved
by the Minister of External Territories before the project may be admitted
for inclusion on the works program. Approval (i) to proceed with design
and (ii) for construction, requires separate subsequent application to the
Minister. This is a lengthy and somewhat cumbersome procedure, which leads
to inefficient working and frustration in the Territory; it is one that the
UNDP consultants consider should be simplified (para. 3.07).
3.09      The five-year development program proposed by the Administration
for the period 1969/73 has as its prime objective in the transportation
sector the extension of the existing highway system to at least a minimum
network connecting major population, production and resource areas to the
ports and where necessary to each other. The preliminary allocation for
the transportation sector within the program is A$ 154 million, of which
about two-thirds is for highways. The UNDP Consultants endorsed this in-
vestment generally in the transportation sector and specifically on high-
ways; compared with the Administration's five-year program the Consultants'
recommendations involve only a minor change in emphasis from urban to rural
roads.
3.10      The Consultants' proposals over the five-year period for highway
development were as follows:



- 9 -
(i) construction of 333 miles of interregional
roads 1/                                       -  A$ 31 million
(ii) construction and upgrading of 382 miles
of district trunk roads                        -  A$ 22 million
(iii)  feeder roads                                   -  A$  8 million
(iv)  urban roads                                    -  A$  6 million
(v)  rural development roads                        -  A$ 10 million
(vi)  road maintenance                               -  A$ 29 million
(vii)  miscellaneous                                  -  A$  3 million
-  A$109 million
1/   This classification, 'interregional road', 'district trunk road'
etc., represents a revision of the existing classification (para.
3.01), proposed by the UNDP Consultants. In broad terms, inter-
regional road would correspond with the existing 'primary' classi-
fication, 'district trunk' with existing 'major secondary' and
isecondary', 'feeder road' classification would remain the same,
and 'rural development' would correspond with the existing 'access'
and 'intermittent access' classification.
This program would represent an increase of about 60% in expenditure on
highways compared with recent years. The proposed project would support
the program by helping finance work on 228 miles of the 333 miles in (i)
above (93 miles of construction and 135 miles of detailed engineering).
E.   Highway Financing
3.11      Funds for public road construction and for main road maintenance
are provided from the Territory's annual budget. Funds for minor and
district road maintenance are provided by the local Government Councils
concerned.
3.12      Over the past few years Administration expenditure on roads,
excluding PWD Administration costs, has averaged about A$ 11 million an-
nually (Table 5). Revenues from use and ownership of motor vehicles over
the same period have amounted to only about a quarter of expenditures
(Table 6). The UNDP Consultants consider that such revenues should con-
tinue to be confined to petroleum products, vehicles, vehicle spares and
vehicle registration but recommend that the duty on petroleum products
should be gradually increased so that total revenues would amount to
about A$ 10 million (i.e. a fourfold increase) by 1977/8, a level which
would approximate to road maintenance expenditure in that year and one



- 10 -
which appears appropriate at the presenf stage of The Territory's devel-
opment. The Administration has already taken the first step to implement
this recommendation by increasing, in late 1969, the duty on motor fuel.
3.13      Funds to meet expenditures on highways under the Five-Year De-
velopment Program will continue to be supplied from the Territory budget,
which is in any case largely financed by Australia. The financing pro-
posals, over the five-year period, envisage about 10% funding from inter-
national sources.
F.   Engineering and Execution of Hi hway Work
3.14      Engineering standards for highway work adopted by the PWD in
recent years have at times been controlled more by limitations of finance
and possibly by the necessity to 'tailor' design to suit the limitations
of labor-intensive working than by technical considerations. The Depart-
ment has, however, recently adopted geometric and structural standards
more appropriate than previously to the traffic, current and projected,
on the Territory's highway system (Table 7). These standards are gen-
erally in accordance with those recommended by the UNDP Consultants and
appear adequate.
3.15      Engineering of highway work is carried out by the PWD, by CDW
(acting as consultants for the PWD) and bv Australian consulting firms
with branches in the Territory. The quality of the englneering is satis-
factory, the performance of the consulting firms being particularlv im-
pressive.
3.16      Construction of major roads is carried out both bv contract and
departmentally, the latter being generally confined to improvement of ex-
isting roads. Some work is carried out by unpaid labor on a self-help
basis, generally to provide motorable tracks to small communities.
3.17      There are no indigenous contractors, per se, in the Territory
capable of executing more than minor work. There are, however, about
35 locally-based foreign (mainly Australian) contracting firms, four of
which are considered capable of executing work to a value in excess of
A$ 1 million per annum using only their own resources currently employed
in the Territory. Virtually all the firms with parent organizations over-
seas could increase the size of their operations in the Territory, if
necessary. The response of the contracting industry to date has been
sufficient to ensure reasonable rates for highway work, and genuine com-
petition resulting in keen tendering can be expected to continue.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description and Purpose
4.01      The project would comprise (see Map);



- 11 -
(i) Improvement of the Wahgi Valley section of the Highlands
Highway by:
(a) construction of about 47 miles of new road between
Kundiawa and Kagamuga, generally on a new alignment
and generally to a gravel standard;
(b) surfacing of the existing road, about five miles, be-
tween Kagamuga and Mount Hagen.
(ii)  Improvement and development of the road westwards from Mount
Hagen (the Southern Highlands Highway) by:
(a) reconstruction of the six-mile section from Mount
Hagen to Togoba to a gravel standard;
(b) completion of the new Togoba-Mendi road by construc-
tion of the 35-mile section between Kaupena and Assissi
to a gravel. standard.
(iii)  Engineering and supervision of (i) and (ii);
(iv)  Engineering of nine miles of the Wahgi Valley section not
included in (i) above;
(v)  Engineering of about 125 miles for a second road access to
the Highlands from the coast at Madang;
(vi)  Technical assistance to help implement organizational and
administrative changes in the PWD and to assist in training;
(vii)  Fellowships for nationals of the Territory to provide train-
ing on subjects related to transportation in general, and
to public works in particular.
4.02      The purpose of the project is four-fold:
(i)  to reduce road transport costs between the Highlands and
the coast;
(ii)  to provide the area west of Mount Hagen, and centered on
Mendi, with a reliable road link to the Highlands Highway,
and hence ultimately to reduce transport costs between
the Mendi area and the coast;
(111)  to prepare for construction of a new, and more reliable,
road access to the Highlands from the coast; and
(iv)  to help the Department of Transportation and the PWD with
organizational, administrative and training problems as
both departments prepare to assume an increasingly important
role in the Territory's development.



B.   Roads to be Improved and_Developed
4.03      The proposed road improvement and development, totaling 93 miles,
would be centered on Mount Hagen, the administrative center of the Western
Highlands District. To the east of Mount Hagen, In the valley of the Wahgi
River, the proposed road - the so-called South Wahgi Highwav - would start
at Kundiawa and would represent, in effect, a reconstruction, with 30,
route shortening, of the last 85 miles of the Highlands Highway.  To the
west of Mount Hagen, the proposed work would complete a road, on a new
alignment around the southern side of Mount Giluwe, to Mendi, the most
westerly administrative and commercial center in the Highlands. The pro-
posed works are described in greater detail in the Annex.
4.04      Civil works under the project to the east of Mount Hagen would be
on two sections, Kundiawa-Minj and Kudjip-Mount Hagen. There is already a
road between Minj and Kudjip which was constructed some years ago to a
relatively low standard but on an alignment which generally follows that
now being adopted for the South Wahgi Highway. It was confirmed during
negotiations that the Administration intends to reconstruct the Minj-Kudjip
section within the next few years to standards compatible with those being
used for the rest of the Highway, (see also para. 4.08). Temporarv use of
the existing Minj-Kudjip road, pending its reconstruction, to link up
adjoining sections constructed under the project would not seriously affect
traffic using the Highway.
4.05      Traffic projections indicate that it would be economical to
surface all the reconstructed road from Kundiawa to Mount Hagen. The
Administration recognizes this but, in view of other investment needs
which would also yield a satisfactory return, it is concerned that sur-
facing would concentrate available capital unduly on the South Wahgi High-
way. The Administration plans therefore, and the project includes, surfac-
ing only of:
(i) the heavily-trafficked five-mile Kagamuga-Mount Hagen
section, and
(ii) a short length, (about 2,000 ft), of embankment in the
Kundiawa-Minj section which will act as a weir and which
will be overtopped in times of heavy flooding, (Annex, para 4).
The remainder of the South Wahgi Highway will be developed to gravel standards
only at this time, surfacing being deferred for a few years. Assuming that
the gravelled sections were adequately maintained in the interim, this is
acceptable.
4.06      Project works to the west of Mount Hagen, on the so-called
Southern Highlands Highway, would be in two sections, Mount Hagen-Togoba
(6 miles) and Kaupena-Assissi (35 miles). Work on the remaining sections
is already virtually complete, having been carried out over the past year
or so both by contract and by force account.



- 13 -
4.07      On the Kaupena-Assissi section the alignment is over the lower
slopes of Mt. Giluwe, and the terrain is rugged. The design standards
originally adopted by PWD were "secondary/hilly" and "secondary/mountainous"
(Table 7). The latter standard however, requires a formation width of only
24 ft, which combined with the steep gradients necessary would be too narrow
for heavy two-way traffic. It had subsequently been agreed with Government
that "secondary/hilly" standards (which require an embankment width of 28
ft) would be generally adopted for this section, such standards being
relaxed only in exceptional circumstances where their adoption could be
proven to be grossly uneconomical. This was confirmed during negotiations.
C.   Roads to be Engineered
4.08      Roads to be engineered under the project would be (i) the Minj-
Kudjip section of the South Wahgi Highway (para. 4.04) and (ii) the Madang-
Kundiawa road, (125 miles), a new road which is to become the second road
access to the Highlands.
4.09      Improvement of land access to the Highlands from the coast is a
matter of great concern to the administration since the only existing land
access to this economically-Important area is the Highlands Highway which
is long and tortuous and subject to frequent closure due to landslides,
particularly on the unstable Daulo and Kassam passes. The feasibility
of a second access has been under study for some time. In 1965, the PWD
commissioned consultants (Laurie and Montgomerie-Australia) to report on
the technical feasibility of a new road to the Highlands from the port of
Madang on the northern coast of the mainland. During 1968/69, both the
technical and economic feasibilities of improved road access to the High-
lands were studied as part of the UNDP Transport Survey. The UNDP Con-
sultants considered the feasibility of (i) improving the existing Highlands
Highway and (ii) providing an entirely new access from the coast; for (11),
they examined five possible alignments, four originating from Madang, the
fifth from the Gulf of Papua on the south side of the mainland where a new
port, at Paia, would be required if that alignment were adopted. Taking
into account the results of the 1965 study, the UNDP Consultants found that
one of the routes from Madang, the Bundi route, (named after the mountain
pass which it would cross) was the most feasible and they recommended that
this route be developed as the second road access to the Highlands at an
estimated cost of about A$ 15 million.
4.10      The Government has recently agreed that the Bundi route should
1)e developed as the new access. This new route would cross the mountainous
area between the Highlands and the northern coast at its narrowest point
and would traverse only one mountain rarge (the pass being at a height of
9,100 ft). It would then join the existing Highlands Highway at Kundiawa,
whence road construction under the project would commence (para. 4.04), and
would thus avoid the Daulo and Kassam passes. Moreover, Kundiawa, currently
242 miles by road from the coast, at Lae, would be brought by the Bundi
route to 132 miles from the coast, at Madang, a shortening of 110 miles.



- 14 -
4.11      The report of the UNDP Consultants, counled with that of the 1965
technical feasibilitv studv, provide adequate feasibility for the proposed
second road access to the Highlands on the Bundi alignment. The detailed
engineering of this access has therefore been included in the project.
4.12      The PWD has proposed that the second access be built to tertiary
standards (Table 7). In the terrain of the Bundi route, this would imply,
inter alia, a formation width of 22 ft, which would be too narrow for the
heavy traffic, much of it trucks, that would use the road. The Government
subsequently agreed that secondary standards should generally be used in
the design of this access, and this was confirmed during negotiations.
D.   Engineering and Supervision of Project Works
4.13      Detailed engineering of road works included in the project is
virtually complete.  Engineering of the South Wahgi Highway, with the ex-
ception of the five-mile Kagamuga-Mount Hagen section, was carried out by
consultants, (Bull & Collier; Willing, English and Devin; Mackerras and
Frame; all of Australia). Engineering of the Kagamuga-Mount Hagen section
and of all the work proposed on the Southern Highlands Highway was carried
out by the PWD in conformity with its policy of providing engineering train-
ing for its staff, and of avoiding the expense of using consultants when-
ever work is within the physical and technical capability of the Department.
4.14      The PWD intends to retain consultants to supervise all construc-
tion included in the project and for the detailed engineering yet to be
carried out; an assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
Consultants for supervision are likely to be selected from the firms mentioned
in the previous paragraph, any of whom would be satisfactorv to the Bank and
Association.
E.   Technical Assistance
4.15      The terms of reference for the UNDP Transport Survev required the
consultants, in Part 1 of the Survey, to study inter alia the policies and
procedures for investment planning in the transportation sector, as a whole
and by modes, and to make recommendations on improvements needed in the
organization of agencies responsible for administration, operations, regula-
tion and planning in each transport mode, and also on the organization re-
quired to develop and implement coordinated transport policy and planning.
In Part 2 of the Survey the consultants were required to focus in greater
detail on the organization and policies of the PWD specifically in relation
to the highway program, and to make recommendations on changes in organiza-
tional structure, staffing requirements, recruitment and training policies,
and administrative procedures which would be necessarv to carry out the
program.
4.16      Government is reorganising the PWD and intends to implement
revised procedures and a broader training program in the Department, (para.
3.07). It is improbable that the Government and Administration would have
the necessary professional expertise to spare to help implement these
measures. The project provides therefore for two man-vears of management



- 15 -
consultant services to assist in the implemeutation of the revised pro-
cedures and of the enlarged training program.
F.   Fellowships
4.17      In the coming years the Administration will inevitably play a
more important role in the formulation of Territory policy. The establish-
ment of a Department of Transportation to formulate transport policy and
to coordinate investment in the sector would be indicative of this trend.
Specifically as regards public works, if, as the Government intends, the
role of the CDW is reduced the PWD will inevitably assume greater stature
and responsibility as part of the process of becoming the sole works author-
ity.
4.18      The key personnel in the transportation sector and in the PWD are
currently expatriate and, in the context of the long-term goals, efforts
should now be made to train nationals of the Territory. In line with these
objectives the project provides for about ten man-years of fellowships to
help train Papuans and New Guineans in transportation and public works for
the specific tasks which lie ahead. The Territory has limited academic
facilities for training in the relevant disciplines / and lacks those for
practical training at post-graduate level. The project therefore provides
for overseas fellowships. The management consultant to be retained under
Technical Assistance should provide useful advice on the selection of suit-
able candidates for the fellowships.
G.  Cost Estimate and 'Off-Shore' Component of Cost
4.19      Cost estimates for the civil works were prepared by the PWD and
were derived from detailed engineering and from unit rates for comparable
road construction projects, notably that for the recently-completed Togoba-
Kaugel section of the Mount Hagen-Mendi road. The estimates appear rea-
sonable.
4.20      Engineering services for the civil works comprise both engineer-
ing and supervision of all new road sections. Detailed engineering is
virtually complete and has been financed by Government; retroactive finan-
cing of this element of the project is therefore recommended (see para. 4.28).
The project cost estimate includes the actual cost of engineering carried out
by consultants (generally 6.0% - 6.5% of estimated construction cost) and a
notional figure, agreed at negotiations, for detailed engineering carried out
departmentally, (generally 5.5% - 6.0% of estimated construction cost).
Supervision costs used in the project cost estimate were based on recent
experience in the Highlands and have been set at about 3% of estimated
construction cost.
1/   The University of Papua and New Guinea, at Port Moresby, does not
presently include an engineering faculty. Technical education at
tertiary level is provided only by the Higher Technical Institute at
Lae, an institution established only three years ago, and which has
not to date provided any technical graduates.



- 16 -
4.21      For consultant services for engineering of the second access to
the Highlands and of the Minj-Kudjip section of the South Wahgi Highway,
the cost has been estimated at 6% of estimated construction cost. For the
proposed technical assistance, the estimate has been based on the costs
obtaining in the recent UNDP Transport Survey. The allowance for fellow-
ships is in accordance with recent Bank experience.
4.22      The Territory uses Australian currency and the conventiaonl
breakdown of project costs into "local" and "foreign" currency elements is
not applicable. An "off-shore" element of cost has therefore been defined
as including costs originating in Australia and other overseas countries.
The 'off-shore' component of civil works was estimated at about 65% of
total cost, and of consulting services at about 80%.
4.23      A summary of the project cost estimate is as follows; fuller
details are given in Table 8.
Australian $(000's)          US$ (000's)             Off-
Off                         Off-            Shore Com-
Territory shore   Total    Territorv shore  Total        ponent
Civil works on the
South Wahgi and
Southern Highlands
Highway, including
engineering and                                                                 11
supervision        2,990   6,030   9,020         3,340  6,760  10,100       67%-
Detailed engineer-
ing of other roads  210      840   1,050           240    940   1.180       80%
Technical
Assistance            20       70      90           20     80      100      80%
Fellowships           -       50       50            -     50       50     100%
3,220   6,990  10,210        3,600  7,830  11,430
Contingencies
Physical (10%)    320      700   1,020           360    780   1,140
Price
Escalation (5%)   160      350      510         180    390       570
3,700   8,040  11,740        4,140  9,000  13,140
1/   A weighted figure for construction and engineering services.



- 17 -
4.24      A contingency allowance of 10% has been included for possible
quantitv increases; in view of the detailed engineering carried out for the
civil works; this is considered sufficient. A further contingency allowance
of 5% has been included for price escalation during the execution of the
project; because of the relatively short contract periods proposed and in
the light of recent experience of cost increases in the Territory this is
considered adequate.
H.   Proiect Execution and Financing
4.25      The PWD would be responsible for execution of the project.  It
proposes to group the civil works into three contracts:
i)   Kundiawa-Minj (25.2 miles, estimated construction cost,
excluding contingencies, US$3,510,000);
ii)   Kudjip-Mount Hagen (26.3 miles, US$2,090,000);
iii)   Mount Hagen-Togoba and Kaupena-Assissi (41.6 miles, US$3,660,000),
with bidders being given the option of bidding for any one or more sections.
The size of the construction contracts and the option of bidding for all the
work should be attractive both to locally-based foreign firms (para. 3.17)
and to large firms not yet established in the Territory.
4.26      Construction contracts would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that there are no regulations or policies in the Territory which would pre-
vent compliance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
4.27      Prequalification of bidders for the civil works is complete, and
bidding documents have been issued. The works are expected to start in
late 1970, with a construction period of three years. Detailed engineering
of the second access to the Highlands and of the Minj-Kudjip road is also
scheduled to start in late 1970 and is expected to take about one year.
4.28      The 'off-shore' cost of the project would be covered by the proposed
Bank Group financing; cost in the Territorv would be met from the Administra-
tion budget and no problems are envisaged as this is supported by Australia.
On this basis and assuming the schedule referred to in the previous para-
graph, requirements of Bank Group funds under the project would be as follows:
Fiscal Year (Bank and Government) 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 Total
Amount (US$ million equivalent)        2.7       2.1       1.9      2.3      9.0



- 18 -
4.29      Financing retroactive to April 29, 1969, of expenditure totaling
about US$540,000 (off-shore element US$430,000) and representing about 5%
of project cost would be required for expenditures incurred on detailed
engineering of the civil works. The Government's intention to carry out
this work prior to the planned project appraisal in late 1969 was discussed
.Vuring the pre-appraisal mission to the Territory in April 1969.
I.   Disbursement
4.30      Loan and Credit funds would be dlsbursed on the basis of:
i)   65% of actual payments to contractors for civil works;
ii)   80% of the actual payments to consultants for engineering,
supervision and technical assistance;
iii)   80% of the agreed cost of engineering carried out by the
PWD; and
iv)   100% of the actual 'off-shore' payments (other than normal
salary) to individuals selected for overseas fellowships.
Any surplus of funds provided under the proposed Loan and Credit should be
cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The civil works and engineering included in the proposed project
relate to the existing road system within the Highlands of the Territory
and to the proposed new road to the Highlands from the coast. The Highlands
are very important to the Territory both politically and economically.
They are populous, and are expected to maintain a high rate of economic
growth during the coming decade (paras. 2.06 and 2.07). Assuming a rate
of growth of at least 10% p.a. as forecast by the UNDP consultants and
assuming continued dependence on imports, growth in income would imply
high traffic growth rates. Surveys carried out bv the PWD in 1968 and 1969
indicate that traffic on the main roads in the Highlands averages about
200 vpd, and that tonnage of freight moved inland from the coast is currently
increasing by about 28% p.a. (Table 1). Vehicle registration statistics
also confirm a high rate of growth of traffic registrations in the High-
lands having increased by about 25% p.a. in the period 1963-1967 (Table 3).
In the economic evaluation of the proposed project growth of traffic in and
to the Highlands has been set at 20% p.a. through 1971, declining thereafter
to about 7% p.a. in 1987 (Table 9). In view of the data cited above, these
growth rates are considered modest.



- 19 -
5.02      Benefits arising from the project would consist of savings in
transport costs and on road maintenance. On the South Wahgi Highway
(paras. 4.04, 4.05) and on the proposed second road access to the Highlands
(paras. 4.09 et seq.), transport costs would be reduced because of improved
surfaces and of route shortenings. Typical vehicle operating co8ts for
varying terrain and type of road are indicated in Table 10; vehicle operat-
ing costs for specific sections of project roads, together with details
of route shortenings and of road maintenance costs, are indicated in Table
11. On the Southern Highlands Highway (paras. 4.06 and 4.07) most of the
savings would accrue from a diversion of freigh traffic from air to road.
5.03      The project would probably produce additional benefits.  Since
competition between road hauliers based in the Highlands is very keen, a
reduction in transport costs should lead almost immediately to lowering of
freight rates to the Highlands from the coast bv one or two cents per pound
(or about 25%); such a reduction would generate additional economic activity
and traffic, which however are difficult to estimate. Benefits from generated
traffic have therefore not been included except in the case of the Southern
Highlands tHighwav, where modest traffic generation has been assumed, more-
over the proposed road works would help relieve population pressure, par-
ticularly in the heavily populated Chimbu District centered at Kundiawa,
and help the Administratlon extend social facilities, such as schools and
health centers, but these benefits, likewise, are difficult to quantify.
No attempt has been made in the evaluntion to include these or other
secondary benefits, although in the present state of development in the
Territory these will be substantlal.
B.   The South Wahgi Hlgijw#y
5.04      The area of influence of the reconstructed road would be most
immediately the Wahgi Valley, which contains a large population and also
the largest single area of high-class land available in the Territory for
early development of tea and coffee. This region also has considerable
potential for development of light manufacturing industries and of tourism,
centered ac Mount Hagen. Since all road traffic between the coast and
areas to the south and west of Mount Hagen will use this road, the influence
of the proposed reconstruction would extend to the Western and Southern
Hiighlands as well.
5.05      Average traffic on the existing road is currently about 150-200
vpd, including some 30-40 heavv lorries operating to and from Lae. The
live-mile section of the road between Mount Hagen and Kagamuga (close to
which Mount liagen airport is located) experiences traffic of about 1,000
vpd. The traffic growth rates adopted in the evaluation of specific sec-
tions of the road are indicated in Table 9.
5.06      Only readily quantiflable benefits have been used in the economic
evaluation; these include reduction in vehicle operating costs due to im-
proved running surfaces and to a route shortening totaling 25 miles in 85
miles (Or 30%), and a reduction in road maintenance costs. Comparison of
these quantifiable benefits with the construction cost indicates that the



- 20-
project would have a rate of return of about 40% overall, whilst the rates
of return for individual sections range from 33% to about 50% (Table 12).
These high rates of return are due to the substantial route shortening
which would result, coupled with the relatively heavler traffic volume
and the poor condition of the existing road. The sensitivity of these
results to variations in the basic assumptions such as (i) 20% lower
traffic growth rates and (ii) 20%' higher vehicle operating costs on the
new road, has been examined; this examination indicates (Table 12) that
even under this combination of unfavorable assumptions the proposed works
on the South Waghi Highway would still have a rate of return of about 33%
overall. The proposed investment is therefore considered amply justified
and is, in fact, overdue.
C.   The Southern Highlands Highwav
5.07      The Southern Highlands has a population of about 200,000 and has
been one of the least developed districts in the Territory. In 1966, for
example, cash crop production totaled only A$ 9,000 or about 50 per person,
whilst the number of registered commercial vehicles was only 34. However,
rapid development is now taking place and is expected to continue; the
Territory's Department of Agriculture has estimated, for instance, the
cash crop production would grow by almost 80% p.a. between 1966 and 1971.
5.08      The existing road link between Mount Hagen and Mendi goes around
the north side of Mount Giluwe and is essentially an access track in very
poor condition; it is usually impassable during the rains, often up to five
months of the year. Its condition is so poor that even when open, the road
freight rates for the 76-mile journey between Mendi and Mount Hagen are
about 800 per ton mile, compared to about 160 per ton mile from Mount Hagen
to Lae.
5.09      Through traffic from Mount Hagen to Mendi on the present road is
about 11 vpd, mostly lorries; for the seven miles between Mount Hagen and
Togoba, traffic is close to 300 vpd, consisting of local and through traffic
to Mendi and other towns north of Mount Giluwe. Freight carried bv air
currently accounts for more than half of the freight delivered to Mendi,
and amounted to about 2000 sh tons in the first 10 months of 1969. The
economic evaluation assumes that air freight and road freight to Mendi
would grow by 20% p.a. up to 1971.  It further assumes, based on the ex-
perience at Mount Hagen consequent on the completion of the Highlands High-
way, that after opening of the new road, 80% of freight presentlv carried
by air to Mendi would be diverted to road and moreover, that there would
be a generation of through traffic to Mendi as a result of a decline in
the freight rate from the coast to a level of about 164 per ton mile (the
current rates from the coast to Mendi are about 65t per ton mile by air).
The volume of generated traffic is estimated to be 50% of the normal and
diverted through traffic in the opening year.
5.10      The benefits arising from the proposed construction have been as-
sumed to be savings in vehicle operating cost, transport cost savings on
diverted air freight, and road maintenance savings; in addition, some benefits



- 21 -
(less than 4% of total first-year benefits) would accrue from traffic genera-
tion. Together these benefits imply a rate of return of 15% on the total
investment in the Southern Highlands Highway, that is including investment
in sections already completed; under the least favorable assumptions for
traffic growth and vehicle operating cost savings, the rate of return would
be 12%. If the construction costs of the already completed sections are
regarded as 'sunk' costs then the rates of return would be 21% and 18%
respectively. The road would therefore be justified as an overall invest-
ment and even more strongly as an incremental investment.
D.   Second Access to the Highlands
5.11      The UNDP consultants recommended construction of a second access
road to the Highlands along the Bundi route (para. 4.09), and the Government
has recently accepted the consultants' reconmendation.
5.12      The proposed alignment would start at the outskirts of Madang and
for the first 50 miles would climb gradually up the valley of the Nuru
River to Yakumbu. The area between Madang and Yakumbu has a sizeable popu-
lation which engages to some extent in cash cropping (cocoa and copra).
From Yakumbu the road would ascend to more than 9,000 ft, to pass through
the saddle in the mountain range and then would descend through the heavily-
populated Chimbu Valley to Kundiawa. Between Yakumbu and the saddle the
area appears suitable for cattle raising, robusta coffee growing and timber
production; in the Chimbu Valley a network of low-standard roads has already
been built by community labor, and coffee and pyrethrum are established as
commercial crops.
5.13      The economic evaluation assumes that because of a route shortening
of 110 miles, all through traffic between the coast and points in the High-
lands west of Kundiawa would divert over the Bundi route, and further that
this traffic would grow at 20% p.a. through 1971, gradually declining to
7% p.a. by 1987. It is likely also that part of the traffic destined for
the length between Goroka and Kundiawa would also be diverted on the Bundi
route.
5.14      The benefits which would arise from the proposed construction have
been assumed to be vehicle operating cost savings applicable to the diverted
road traffic together with road maintenance savings, although the latter
would be small since the existing route would have to be maintained even
after opening of the new route. Benefits from local traffic generation are
also likely but quantification of these is difficult and has not been
attempted.
5.15      Assuming a construction cost of about A$15 million, the rate of
return on the proposed investment in the Bundi route is estimated at 19%
(Table 12); the investment in detailed engineering is therefore clearly
justified. The construction of this road could form the principal element
of a subsequent Bank Group-financed project.



- 22 -
6.  RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained,
(i)  on the Government's intentions relating to (a) reorganisation
and staffing of the PWD, (b) modification of the Department's
procedures and (c) an expansion of its training program (para.
3.07), and
(ii)  that there are no regulationjs or policies in the Territory
which would militate against awards under the project in
accordance with the requirements of the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement (para. 4.26), and
(iii)  on the standards to be adopted for the Southern Ilighlands
Highway (para. 4.07) and for the proposed second access to the
Highlands (para. 4.12).
6.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for Bank Group
assistance totaling US$9 million. The terms for the proportion financed by
the Bank should include a four-year grace period, (to allow for the proposed
construction and contractual maintenance), followed by a repayment period
of 20 years, the assumed economic life of the civil works.



TABLE 1
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
FREIGHT MOVEMENTS ON THE HIGHLANDS HIG(IRAY - TONS per YEAR
Kainantu/                     W.H.D.y
Goroka/  Kundiawa/  Mount  Exccept
Destination Lae      Chauve   Minjaanz   Hagep   Mt. Hagn  S.H.D.   Tota3
Origin
Lae                        3
Oct. 1968           (9880)sl 42276      11752      28028         52      -      82108
Nov. 1969            (7176)j/ 57148     12948      34632       1352     780    106860
Kainantu/Goroka/Chauve
Oct. 1966            13832    6396       4732       9880         52      -      3k892
Nov. 1969            16796   10608      10504       6188        312             44408
Kundiawa4inj/Banz
Gct. 1968             3120    2132      13624        780         52      -      19708
Nov. 1969             2756    1924       50244      1248        -       260     11232
Mount Ha en
Oct.-1968              8060    2080       676       (1248)Y  6344      4316     21476
Nov. 1969             6084    1092        884       ( 728) Y   8684    4212     20956
W.H.DYexcept Mt. Hagen
Oct. 1968  p                    -         312       3016       -        -        3328
Nov. 1969              624      156       104       1508       -        _         2392
S.H. D .
Oct. 1968               -       -          -          468                         4 _  468
Nov. 1969               104     -          52         416      -        -         572
Total
Oct. 1968           -Z5012   52884      31096      42172      6500     4316    161980
Nov. 1969            26364   70928      29536      43992    10348      5252    186420
1/ Western Highlands District: covers the area generally north and west of Mount
Hagen, the administrative center of the District.
2/ Southern Highlands District: covers the area generally south and west of Mendi,
the administrative center of the District. Because of the few roads west of
Mendi, tonnage to and from the Southern Highlands District is virtually the
same as that to and from Mendi itself.
3/ Local traffic not included in totals.
Source: Directorate of Transport



TELRRITORY OF PAPIJA AND NWhF. GUTiZA - H IGGEDAY PROJECT
YILEAGES OF TRAFFICABLE VEHICUTLAR ROADS - 1967
TYPE OF ROAD
Major                                              Intermittent        TOTAL
D I S T R I C T      Urban      Pri-mary     Secondary      Secondary      Feeder     Access         Access           tLES
PAPUA -
Western                6           _             1             _              2           5            359             373
Gulf                   2           _             2             _              _          18              8              30
Central               67          10            31            46            1          200            201              696
Milne Bay              7           1            59             8             11         121              -             207
Northern               6           -            13            67             19          96             91             292
Southern Highlards    3            _             -             _            122         -90             35             550
TOTAL PAPUA           91          11           106           121            295         830            694           2,148
NEW GUINEA -
&a3tern Highlands    24            -             -            92             95        751              80           1,042
.vez'ern Highlands    12           _             6            92           352         227              36             725
East Sepik)           40           -             4            90             53        112             554             853
Madang                25           2            75            17             52        151             106             428
Morobe                41           -            39            96            110          84             40             410
lWvest New Britain)    3          30             4            13             86         311             61             548
East New Britain)
New Ireland           14           -             -           192             57         205            188             656
Bougainville           1           _            19             _             86         330            136             572
Manus                  4          _                           22                         10             1S              52
TOTAL NEW' GUINEA    204          32           147           634            891      2,1l1          1,217            5,286
TOTAL PAP3A AND
,E W GU1'E.A       295          43           253           735         1,186       3,0111                         7,434
NOTE:  Ch5,ribu DistrIct (District Headquarters Kundiawa) was not included separately in the inventory.  The road
mileages in Chimbu are included, in the Table, in those shown for the Eastern Highlands District.
SOURCE:   Transport and Cor?umnication, T?1G Bulletin N1o. 6 - based cn 1967 Road Imrentory                                    W
INv



TABLE 3
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
VEHICLE FLEEET - NUMBER OF VEHICLES ON REGISTER 1963 - 1968
(as oFt Decemnber 31) 
Annual Growth
Vehicle Type          1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968    Rate 196367 &t
Motor Cars             4930   5517   6072   6888   8377  10123         14  (15)
Highlands             218    248    na     341    512    na          24
Other Districts     4712   5269    na    6547   7865    na           14
Station Wagons         872   1127   1460   1650   2155   2812          25  (26)
Highlands              63    107    na     182    232    na          39
Other Districts       809   1020    na    1468   1923    na          24
Motorcycles             558    684    896   1136   1520   2035         29
Highlands             177    183    na     258    278    na          12
Other Districts      381    501    na      878   1242    na          34
Tractors LI             430    523    598    699    990   1111         23
IHighlands             82    109    na     175    296    na          38
Other Districts       348    41k   na      524    694    na          19
Ccnmercial Vehicles   4742   5199   6286   6888   7654   9378          12  (15)
Highlands             534    637    na     966   1309    na          25
Other Districts     4208   4562    na    5922   6345    na           U
Total                 11532  13050  15312  17261  20696  25459         16  (17)
Highlands            1074   128k    na    1922   2627    na          25
Other Districts    10458  11766    na   15339  18069    na           15
A large number of tractors are not subject to canpulsory registration
and are therefore not included in these figures.
y Figures in brackets indicate growth over period 1963-68.
Source:  Transport and Comunication, TPNG Bulletins Nos. 2-6



TABLE 4
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
AIR FREIGHT MODEMENTS (Short Tons) AT HIGHLAND AIRPORTS 1963-8
Year Ended June 30
Averago
arowth p.a.
Airport        1963    1964    1965, e. 1966. 1967    1968   1969   1964-8-
Kainantu          1909    2536      535      38     20       60            -61%
Goroka           12687   15382   14112   10688   3849    1786              -42%
MinJ               960      889    1187     596    4116    133              -38%
Banz              2145    3580    3353    4881   273        504            -38%
Mount Hagen       7899   11168   15341   15770  11205    6926              -11%
Wabag              785      681     748    1200   1188      881             + 7%
Wapenamanda        547      889    1166    1199   1749    1615              +16%
Mledi              544    - 1187    1696    1947   1644    1723   2000V/  +10%
Total   27476   36312   38138   36319  22805   13628               -22%
I/ January-October only
Source: Directorate of Transport - TPNG



TABLE 5
2ERRITQRY OF PAPUA & NEW GUINEA - H3HWAY PROJECT
AD_iISTRATION  ENDrES ON ROADS AND ERIDGES
($ Australian tOO())
1965/6   1966/7   1967/8   1968/9   1969/7-0'
Iavestment                       4,863    5,29 2 4,956    5 9    5900
a)  Trunk Roads                1,367    3,888 '  2,194    3,349    3,588
b)  Other Roads & Bridges      3,496    1,404    2,762    1,920    2,312
Maintenance                      3,982    4,185    5,1149    6,050    6,638
P.W.D. Adninistration            3,352    3,715    5,740    7,317    7,644
Total         12,197   13,192   15,845   18,436   20,182
Amount appropriated. Actual wxpenditure not known.
Source:  Directorate of Transport - TPNG



TABLE 6
TERRITORY oF PAPUA & NEW GUnIEA - H5MHWAY PROJECT
REVENUES FROM USE & OWNERSHIP OF VEHICLES
(A$ 000)
Year      Vehicle                     Thvort tutties                  TOTAL
Reg-taaion    Petroleum   Motor Vehicles   Spare Parts
- Fees       Products-
1958/59      143           319            284              82              828
1959/60      156           291            261              61             769
1960/61      176           343            342              60             921
1961/62      205           351            370              60             986
1962/63      225           431           458               88           1,202
1963/64      252           434           500               62           1,248
1964/65      299           530            732              88           1,649
1965/66      374           643         1,050              127           2,194
1966/67      451           749         1,215              159           2,574
1967/68      535           875         1,207              179           2,796
1968/69      628           n.a.         n.a.              n.a.           n.a.
Sources Directorate of Tranaport, TPNG



TMRITORY OF PAPUA A.TD NA GUINEA - HIGH,4AY PROJECT
DESIN STAIIDARDS
(i)  Geometric
Design   Absolute       Normal    Max. Length    Absolute  lMax. Length    Form-    Pave-
Speed   Yin Radius      Maximun   at Normal       Yaximum   at Abs. Max.  ation    ment
(mph)   of Horizontal  Gradient   Maximum.        Gradient    Gradient      Width    Width
Curvature        (%)       Gradient         (%)          (ft)         (ft)     (ft)
(ft)                        (ft)
1/
Primary/Flat-Rolling          50          800            4         6,000            7          3,000       34-A0      22
Primary/Hilly                 40          500             6        4,000            8          2,000       32-38      22
Primary/Mountainous         25-30         170             8        1,600           10            800          26      20
1/
Secondary/Flat-Rolling        40          500            6         4L,000           8          2,000          34      20
Secondary/Hilly               30          250             8        2,000           10          1,000          28      20
Secondary/Mountainous       20-30         100            10        1,500           12            750          24      18
1/
Tertiary/Flat-Rolling         40          500             6        4,000            8          2,000          28      12
Tertiary/Fllly                20          100            10        1,500           12            750          22      12
Tertiary/1Mlountainous        15           60           12         1,000           14            500          22      12
1/  'Primary' standard implies 500-5000 vpd within ten years of design year; 'Secondary' implies 100-500 vpd; and
'Tertiary' 30-100 vpd.
(ii) Structural
(a)  Loading   N.A.A.S.R.A.             H20-S16-44 loading
(b)  Width     Bridges up to 150 ft total length, 24 ft carriageway; bridges of total length 150 ft
or greater, 12 ft carriageway.



TABLE 8
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND  iEW GUINEA - HIGIMAY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
A$ ('000's)             US$ (0'OO's)        Off-
Territory  Offshore Total Territory Of7-ihore Total shore
Compo-
nent
:vTVIL WORKS
South Wahgi Highway
Kundiawa-Minj section         1,090     2,050   3,140   1,210   2,300   3,510)
Kudjip-Kagamuga section         570     1,070   1,640     630   1,200   1,830)
Kagamuga-Mount Hagen section     70       150     220      90     160      250)
! 65%
Southern Highlands Highway                                                    )
Mount Hagen-Togoba section      210       410     620     240     460      700)
Kaupena-Assissi section         920     1,730   2,650   1,020   1,950   2,970)
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Engineering of civil works       90       400     490     110     )h0    550)
Supervision of civil works       50       210     260      5D      240     290)
Engineering of 1Minj-Kudjip
section of South Wahgi
Highway                         10        L0      50      10      50      60)
Engineering of a second road                                                  )
access to Highlands            200       800   1,000     220     900  1,120)
Technical Assistance             10        80      90       20      80     100)
?ELU3WSHIPS                       -         50      50      -        50      50) 100%
3,220     6,990  10,210   3,600   7,830  11,430
CONTINGENCIES
Physical (10%)                  320       700   1,020     360     780   1,140
Price escalation (5%)           160       350     510     180     390      570
3,700     8,040  11,740   4,140   9,000  13,140
NOTE: Apportionment of total cost between territory and offshore elements, and
conversion between currencies, are not exact due to rounding.
March 13, 1970



TERRI'ORY O'  \PUA AND NEW GUINEA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
ASSU ED ThAi?FTC VOllES ON PROJECT ROADS 1969-91
Road Section                        Average Daily Traffic                     Assured Growth of .Nowal Traffic (%,n.a)
1969   1972   1977   1982   1987
South Wahgi Highway                1969   1972   1976   1981   1986   1991              1971   1976   1981   1986   lq91
,4ount Hagen-Kagamuga
cars                               175    302    511    884   1335   1890                2"      14     11       8      7
utilities                          1447    772   1305   2099   2889   3722               20      14      9       6      5
average trucks                     438    757   1278   2212   3341   4729                20      14     11       8      7
Kaganmuga-Kudjip- Ltnj -Koromugl
cars                                14       7     13     22      33    417              20      16     11       8      7
utilities                           95    164    297   1487   670    863                 20      16      9       6      5
average trucks                      42      73    123    212    320    454               20      14     11       8      7
Koromugl-Kundiawa
cars                                 8      14     23     40      61     86              20      14     11       8       7
utilitie s                          96    166    280    451    620    799                20      14       9      6       5
average trucks                      81    140    236    409    618    875                20      14     11       8       7
Southn Highlands Highwav           199   19721Y 1976   1981   1986   1991    _961   1972   134j   1986   198?
Mount Hagen-Togoba
cars                                33      57     96    167    252    252 k             2 14          11       8       oV
utilities                          165    285    482    775   1066   1066                2")    14        9      6       )
5-ton trucks                         75    130    219    379    572    572                20     b4    11        8       n
a*erage trucks                      -        2.5    4       7     10      10               -     14      11              0
Togoba-M4endi
Car 8                                 1      2      3       6      8      12              20     16      11      8       7
utl4lities                            4      7      13     20     28      36              20     16       9       6      5
5-ton trucks                          6     10     18      30     46      65              20     1b      11       8      7
average trucks_/                     -       2.5    4       7     10      15              -      14      11       8      7
SeFord Access to Highlands                                                               1969   1972   1977   1982   1987
(BUnhi Route) 3/                    1969   1974   1978   1983   1988   1993              1971   1976   1981   1986   1993
Madang-Yakumbu-Kundiawa
c arls                              (1)      2       4      7     10      13              20     16      11       8
u'tillties                         (4)      9      16     24      31     40              20      16      9       6      5
ave age trucks                     (37)     83    137    224    326    457                20      14     11       8      7
V/  tncludes geiarated traffic             3/ It is assund thot all throuth traffic using the ex
_   Traffic diverted froa  air transport  4     n/ doirw   andbeyod willdier987-91 to indicate that capacity would



TABLE 10
TERRITORY OF PAPUA & NEW GUINEA  HIGHTAY PROJECT
TYPICAL VEHICLE OPE-iATING COSTS
(Australian cents per mile)
Type of Road                     Utility Truckc  Truck    Truck-Y  Averax!e
Car   2-ton  5-ton  7.8-ton  11.3-ton    Truck
Surface    Gradient    Curvature    Alimnxent
A. Paved
(i)  Flat         Straighlt     Good       11.3   15.1   19.2       19.7      25.4      22.5
(ii)  Hilly         Curved       Good       14.3   17.8   20.5       21.6      28.8      25.2
B. Good Gravel
_ i)  Flat         Straight     Good       12.2   16.7   21.7       23.4      31.2      27.3
(ii)  Flat          Curved       Good       12.2   16.7   21.7       23.4      31.2      27.3
(iii)  Hilly         Curved       Godd       15.9   22.5   24.3       27.8      38.2      33.0
(iv)  Steep         Curved       Good       18.0   25.0   25.8       30.0      41.5      36.2
C. Poor Gravel
(i)  Flat          Straight     Good       13.9   18.2   24.0       27.7      37.2      32.4
(ii)  Flat          Curved       Good       13.9   18.2   24.0       27.7      37.2      32.4
(iii)  Hilly         Curved       Good       18.0   24.9   27.4       34.1      45.o      39.5
(iv)  Hilly         Winding      Moderate  25.8   32.9   30.0        36.o      50.0      4b.5
(v)  Hilly         Tortuous     Moderate  28.8   35.5   32.0        39.3      5h.1      48.2
(vi)  Steep        lWinding      Bad        28.8   35.5   32.0       39.3      54.1      48.2
(vii)  Steep         Tortuous     Bad        36.0   40.0   35.0       44.0      58.o      54.0
(viii)  Very Steep   Tortuous       Very Bad  46.6   48.9   40.3       49.o      64.0       56.o
Utility and truck sizes expressed in terms of capauity (in long tons).
SOURCE? UIDP Transport Survey of the Territory of Papua & New Guinea



TABU 11
TERRITORY OF PAPUA & NEi GUINEA - HMHWAY PROJET
Road Milntenance and Vehicle Operating Costs on ProJect Roads
Applicable         Road MLbin-
Vehicle Operating    tenance Cost
Road Section                                   Costs (see Table 10) Parameters /
A.-South Whgi Highway                                                   A      B
1. Mount Hagen-Kagamuga   Existing (4.7 mi)         B (U)            400    7
Proposed (4.7 ml)         A (i)            800    0.25
2. lagamuga-Kudjip        Existing (31.1 mi)        C (iv)             -    8
Proposed (21.6 mi)        B (iii)          800   5
3. KudAp41inj             Existing (9.5 mi)         C (v)              -    9
Proposed (9.5 mi)         B (ii)            -    8
4. MinJ-Koromugl          Existing (22.9 mi)        C (vii)            -    9
Proposed (13.7 mi)        B (iii)          800    5
5. Koromugl-Kundiawa      Existing (12.3 mi)        C (viii)        1200    9
Proposed (11.5 mi)        B (iv)          1200    6
B. Southern-Highlands HIghway
1. Mount Hagen-Togoba     Existing (7.0 mi)         C (v)             800   9
Proposed (6.0 mi)         B (iii)          800   5
2. Togoba-Mendi           Existing (69.0 mi)        C (vii)         2000   10
Proposed (73.0 mi)        B (iii)          800    6
C. Bundi Road
1. Madang-Yakuzbu         Existing (142 mi)         B (i)              -    7
Proposed (53 mi)          B (i)            400    5
2. Yakumbu-Kundjawa       Existing (100 mi)         C  vi)             -    9
Proposed (72 mi)          B  iv)          1200    5
Road maintenance cost, including equipment depreciation, labor, materials and
establisbnent charges is A$ (ABv)/mile/year where A & B have values in above
Table, and '1t' is vpd.
Source: UNDP Transport Survey Report



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA - HIGWAT PROJECT
ECONO1aC E7AUTATION OF PROJECT ROADS
Road Section                      Construction                            Internal Rates of Return %
Costs                      A              B              C              D
Most likely values 20% lower    20% higher        Conbines
A $ 000                of traffic       traffic       voc. on      assuiptions
growth & voc.   growth rates   new road         B & C
South Wahgi Hiahway                        5.9                    37-40 1          35             38             33
1. Mount Hagen-Kagamuga                 267                    50+            53            +50             49
2.  Kagamuga-Kudjip                   1,950                    38             33             36             31
3. Kudjip-I4inj 
4.  Mini-Koromugi                     2,213                    37             32             35             31
5.  Koromnugl-Kundiawa                1,569                    33             29             31             26
Southern Highlapds Hiihway
A.  Including completed sections           6,854                    15             13             13             12
1.  Mount Hagen-Togoba                  728                    30             25             22             IT
2. Togoba-Mendi                       6,126                   12             11             11             11
B. Incremental investment only             I 327                    21             20             19             18
1.  Moant Ragen-Togoba                                         30             2,             22            i5
2.  Togoba-Mendi                      3,599                    19            18              18            18
Second Access to Hihlands  Bundi         15,                        19             15
route
1/ Rate of return is 37% if benefits from the Kinj-Yudjip section are not attributed to the proposed investment.
If these benefits are included the rate of retur-n is 40%.
_/ ll rates of return calculated over a period of 20 years.                                                           X
sIJ



ANNEX
Roads to be Improved and Developed
1.        The roads to be improved and developed under the project are
described in general terms in Chapter 4.B of the report as (i) the 'South
Wahgi Highway' and (ii) the 'Southern Highlands Highway'. In greater
detail, the terrain, the existing roads and the project works are as
follows:
South Wahgi HiRhway
2.        The project works would run from Kundiawa to Mount Hagen, in the
lower part of the Wahgi Valley, but would exclude the nine-mile Mini-
Kudjip section.
3.        Starting from Kundiawa, the alignment of the proposed reconstruc-
tion would run about 11 miles to Koromugl, generally on the alignment of
the existing road and on a watershed, which would obviate the need for large
drainge structures. The only major structure would be at Koromugl where
the river would be crossed with a 260 ft, three-span bridge.
4.        At Koromugl the existing road turns northwards through hilly
country on the north side of the valley and does not join the proposed
alignment again until Kagamuga, a few miles outside Mount Hagen. From
Koromugl to Minj the proposed alignment would continue in the lower part
of the valley and, compared with the existing road, would have the advan-
tages of directness of alignment and of relatively easy terrain but the
disadvantage of intercepting much of the drainage from the northern slopes
of the valley. Thus in the 13-mile Koromugl-Minj section there would be
bridge crossings of the rivers Garniger (360 ft) Memintz (90 ft) and Aal
(220 ft), all flowing into the main water course, the Wahgi, and a crossing
of the Wahgi itself, comprising a three-span 300 ft bridge with an adjacent
'weir' section of embankment to reduce the flow through the bridge during
heavy flooding.
5.        Between Kudjip and Kagamuga (21.6 miles) difficult terrain would
be encountered only near Kagamuga. Specifically, some five miles before
Kagamuga the alignment would pass through a narrow but relatively high
spur, in a deep cutting with a length of 300 ft and with a maximum depth
of 150 ft. In view of the PWD's unhappy experiences to date of landslides
along the Highlands Highway, consultants were retained specifically to
study this deep cut. The consultants' design, which was accepted by the
PWD, is based both on borings and on seismic investigations.
6.        Close to Kagamuga, there would be three bridge crossings, over
the Koman River (240 ft), the Wahgi River (for the second time), (90 ft)
and the Tuman River (240 ft). This upper bridge over the Wahgi is designed
as a submersible structure and is expected to be over-topped for short
periods, about once every five years.



ANNEX
Page 2
7.        Between Kagamu.ga and Mount Hagen the existing alignment is
generally satisfactory, but it is uneconomical to maintain the gravel sur-
face with the current traffic volume (about 1000 vpd). The project would
'nelude therefore surfacing only this section.
K.        'Primary/flat' and 'primary/hilly' standards (Table 7) were
idopted generally for the work between Kundiawa and Mount Hagen, but have
been relaxed at specific locations in difficult terrain, notably in the
Kundiawa-Koromugl section, to permit gradients of up to 10%.
Southern Highlands Highway
9.        The existing road westwards from Mount Hagen runs seven miles to
logoba on an alignment which is difficult and tortuous, and which could not
be improved without major reconstruction. At Togoba the existing road turns
northwards and gives access to some scattered towns and villages and also,
by means of a 'Jeeapable' track around the north side of Mt. Giluwe, to
Mendi.
10.       The proposed new route to Mendi will run from Togoba around the
south side of Mt. Giluwe. The 20-mile Togoba-Kaugel River section has re-
cently been completed on a fully-engineered alignment to a gravel standard;
the short (three-mile) section between the Kaugel River and Kaupena, in-
cluding the crossing of the Kaugel Gorge, is currently being constructed
by the PWD. From Mendi the 16-mile section to Assissi is being completed
by the PWD. There is, therefore, a gap of about 35 miles between Kaupena
and Assissi to be completed before Mendi can be joined to Mount Hagen on
the new alignment. The project would include construction of this 35-mile
section, also reconstruction of the Mount Hagen-Togoba section on a new
alignment of about six miles, both to a gravel standard.
11.       On the Mount Hagen-Togoba section a 'primary/hilly' standard
(Table 7) was adopted, modified at specific locations where rigid applica-
tion of standards would be uneconomical. The design envisages a short
length (850 ft) of 12% gradient but otherwise gradients would not exceed 10%.
One horizontal curve would have a radius of 300 ft but radii otherwise would
be not less than 500 ft. The section would include two bridges (110 ft and
60 ft spans) and numerous smaller drainage structures. Adequate quantities
of gravel suitable for pavement are available close to Mount Hagen.
12.       On the Kaupena-Assissi section gradients normally would not ex-
ceed 10% and then generally only for short lengths. About one mile at this
maximum gradient would however be necessary on both approaches to the deep
Ankura Gorge, a few miles east of Assissi. Horizontal alignment would be
compatible with the rugged terrain; minimum radii would generally be about
500 ft, but at specific locations the radius would be about 200 ft.
13.       There would be three bridges in the section, of 80, 125 and 200 ft
spans and numerous smaller drainage structures. Construction materials
suitable for bridge work and the gravel pavement are available within easy
haul of the section.



Bismarck   Sea
Amel                                                         long I
),Yakumbu                                        Soidor
go a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
+* A MtHoge~~~~~~~~~~~~~n ugl {/ SM 
-     ~ Exstn    road   aces    to  Hihlnds faw ;rom   coa                                                                                             I\{ G
MoendiMtGI                  s     s                                         Doulo                                         J,
j < ~~~~~~~~~_Jr %> < \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WKosso~~~~~~~~~m Pass ,> t
AssissiI                                                                                                        Th
Other roads                                                                  If  MASI    B+AC   SCAo"                                   ,)l 
Roads under design/construction  (not included in project) | ,_g                                             / (   
Construction   aA                                                                          RCA W                       I GEW    8515NE A
- Engineering only                                                                                iwESTER    \\ r<         5;T t         50r 505S
0HI0H20AY   PROJECT10I                                                                               051R . 5 5ED
O~~KLMTR    -_ V1,_                                                                              eL       < . <,.C-                <|tu;
Existingt roa  acEss to Hihad  fro  coast                                                                                                   6 ,            
MILES~~~~~~~~~L
Construction~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                               N..
~~~~~~~~_.1.._.... ..._._      *_- - - -                                                                                                                - -Egnern  onl                             0:
MARCH I970



