FILE  COPY        ~RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY               Report No.  P-828
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be' quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
FOR A
PROPOSED HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 26, 1970



INTlERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTICN ANI DEVELOPIThIT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE TERRITORY
OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and credit, in various currencies, equivalent to US$4.5 million
each to the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       Following a suggestion by an economic mission in 1967, a trans-
port survey of the Territory financed by the UNDP for which the Bank
was executing agency was carried out. Part I of the report of the
consultants endorsed the Adndnistration's investment program in transport
contained in the Territory's Development Plan for the five years to
1972/73. The investment program of A$157 million includes A$109 million
for highways. The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit, which would be the
first Bank group assistance for transport in the Territory would finance
the highest priority roads identified in the transport survey.
3.       Negotiations were held in Washington from May 7 to May 15, 1970.
The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, the Guarantor, was
represented by Mr. F.G.H. Pooley, Counselor (Financial) of the Australian
Embassy and Mr. D. Mentz, Assistant Secretary, Department of External
Territories. The Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea,
which is the Borrower, was represented by Mr. Joseph A. Lue, Assistant
Ministerial member for transport in the Territory House of Assembly and
Mr. Tom Crotty, Director of the Department of Public Works.
4.       The Territor-y has received one Bank loan and two IDA credits
to date. The following is a summary statement relating to them as of
April 30, 1970.



-2-
Loan or                                                 Amount (US$ million)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower                Purpose      Bank  IDA Undisbursed
546-PNG     1968  Administration of the   Telecommu-    7.0          6.9
Territory of Papua and    nications
New Guinea
137-PNG     1969 Administration of the    Agriculture        1.5     1.4
Territory of Papua and
New Guinea
1/
175-PNG     1970 Administration of the    Agriculture        5.0     5.0
Territory of Papua and
New Guinea
Total now outstanding                 7.0  6.5
Amount sold                           0.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA        6.8  6.5
Total undisbursed                     6.9  6.4    13.3
1/ Not yet effective.
5.       A supervision mission reported in May 1970 that progress on the
telecommunications project is generally on schedule and, orders having
been placed, substantial disbursements should start soon. Progress on
the first agricultural project has been impressive although disbursements
have been slow due to administrative delays in the Territory which will
be investigated by a supervision mission due to visit the Territory later
this month. A mission is scheduled to visit the Territory later this
year to review a hydro-electric power project for which the Administra-
tion has requested a Bank loan.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
6.       Borrower:        The Administration of the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea.
Guarantor:       The Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia.



- 3 -
Amount:          The equivalent in various currencies of US$9.0
million of which US.$4.5 million each for the
Loan and the Credit.
Purpose:         To help finance engineering and construction
of about 93 miles of highways and engineering
of a further 134 miles of highways as well as
technical assistance.
Amortization:    IDA credit: in fifty years including a ten-year
period of grace, through semi-annual instalments
of one-half of 1% from December 15, 1980 to
June 15, 1990 and 114 from December 15, 1990
through June 15, 2020.
Bank loan: in twenty four years including a four
year period of grace, payable in semi-annual
instalments beginning December 15, 1974 and
ending June 15, 1994.
Interest Rate
on Bank loan: 7% per annum
Commitment
Charge on
Bank loan:     3/4 of 1% per annum.
Service Charge
on IDA credit: 3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.       A report entitled "Territory of Papua and New Guinea - Appraisal
of a Highway Project" (PTR 51a) dated May 27, 1970 is .attached.-
8.       About one million of the Territory's 2.3 million population is
concentrated in the highlands of the main island, an area of potential
agricultural growth. The development of the coast was made possible by
shipping, but the interior, mountainous and densely forested over much
of its area, was, until the opening of the Highland Highway in 1966
accessible only by air. The Highlands Highway from Lae, on the coast,
to Mt. Hagen in the Highlands is the only road at present and although
this is in many places an appalling road, subject to landslides, it has
had a significant influence in stimulating economic actitivty in the area
through which it passes.
9.       The Territory's Department of Public Works (PUD) will be res-
ponsible for executing the project, for which it has a suitably quali-
fied staff. This staff is, however, at present entirely expatriate and



- 4 -
the proposed loan and credit include an amount for fellowships for over-
seas training of Papuans and New Guineans. The report of the UNDP
financed consultants recommended certain organizational changes in the
PWD and provision has been made for management consultants' services in
implementing these changes. The Commonwealth Government is currently
carrying out a program for the reorganization of the PWDI, taking into
account the report by the UNDP financed consultants and will keep the
Bank informed on its progress.
10.      The highway construction to be financed under the project consists
of the improvement of existing stretches of the Highlands Highway (from
Kundiawa to Minj and from Kudjip to Mount Hagen) and an extension of the
highway southwards into the Southern Highlands an area at present largely
inaccessible by road. Finance would also be provided for the detailed
engineering of a second access road from the coast to the Highlands, along
a route recormmended by the UNDP financed consultants and approved by the
Territory House of Assembly. The Administration is expected to request
Bank assistance for the construction of this second access road in due
course, which would provide the Highlands Highway with a link northwards
to the coast at Madang.
11.      The project is estimated to cost a total of US$13.14 million of
-shich wqorkcs by contractors,together with engineering and supervision of
roads to be reconstructed and contingencies, account for us$11.61 million,
consultants: services for engineering further roads US$1.47 million, and
overseas fellowships US$60,000. As in previous loans and credits to the
Territory, the Bank group would finance the "offshore component" of the
project, which, since the Territory has the same currency as Australia,
includes costs originating in Australia and other overseas countries.
The "offshore component" of the civil works contracts is estimated at
67 percent (US$7.76 million) and of the consultants' services at 80 per-
cent (US$1.18 million). The cost of the fellowships would be wholly
"offshore". Expenditure amounting to US$540,000 has been incurred since
April 1969 on detailed engineering of the roads to be constructed and I
recommend that the "offshore component" of this amounting to US$430,000
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. The Credit would be dis-
bursed first.
12.      The proposed loan and credit would be in addition to, and not
in substitution for Australian budgetary aid which will amount to A$96
million in 1969/70 and is expected to rise to A$120 million by 1970/71.
It may be added that the Administration has also tried to raise funds
for development work by borrowing on the Australian capital market, but
recent offering of bonds there at rates above those prevailing for
Commonwealth and States issues resulted in the bulk of the issue being
left with the underwriters.



13.      The Project is economically justified.   The high cost of trans-
port, whether by air or by inadequate roads, is holding back the develop-
ment of successful cash crops in otherwise suitable areas. Tourism and
light manufacturing would also be encouraged. Savings both in transport
costs and road maintenance would result from the proposed improvements
in the highways and, using a conservative basis of forecasting the economic
returns on the improvement of the highways, range from 15 percent to 40
percent. The second access road to the highlands, for which detailed
engineering is to be carried out, passes through an area of relatively
dense population and land shortage and will likewise stimulate the economy
there. In addition to the economic benefits of the project, its execution
would promote political and social cohesion in a country divided by geo-
graphical and language barriers.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, the
draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Administration of the
Territory, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Commonwealth of
Australia and the Bank, the Recommendation of the Ccmmittee required by Article
V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of Resolutions approving
the proposed Credit and Loan are being distributed separately. Necessary
modifications have been made to General Conditions applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements and Loan Agreements to take into account the fact
that the Borrower is not a member and that the Guarantor's currency is the
same as that of the Borrower. The Credit Agreement contains the usual
provisions for highway projects and these are incorporated by reference
in the Loan Agreement.  A draft of a letter from the Commonwealth giving,
inter-ali, certain assurancoz on the status of the Credit is also being
distributed.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.      A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Terri-
tory of Papua and New Guinea" (EAP-8a) was circulated to the Executive
Directors on September 9, 1969. The Territory's economy, of which agri-
culture is the mainstay, has made steady progress in several respects
during the last decade. The monetized sector's contribution to GNP has
been growing at the rate of 10 percent annually; GNP, as a whole, has
risen by about 5-6 percent per annum.
16.      Exports (including re-exports) expanded in FY 1967/68 (July 1 -
June 30)by 32 percent because of the buoyant world market demand for copra,
cocoa and coffee - the Territory's major export commodities. In FY
1968/69 there was a more normal export grouth of about 7 percent. The
percentage of imports financed by exports increased from 48 percent in



FY 1967/68 to 51 percent in FY 1968/69 and the merchandise trade gap in
absolute terms narrowed slightly. For the first seven months of FY 1969/70
the trade gap, despite a satisfactory development of exports, widened to
A$62 million (A$40 million during the comparable period of FY 1968/69) as
a result of a 42 percent rise in imports, largely for the Bougainville
Copper Project. The trade deficits, together with the deficits on invisi-
ble account, were largely financed by Australian grants which amounted to
A$78 million in FY 1967/68 and A$87 million in FY 1968/69; an A$96 million
grant was budgeted for FY 1969/70.
17.      The Administration's total expenditure for FY 1968/69 increased
by 12 percent over the previous year and is budgeted to rise by 18 percent
in FY 1969/70, as the development program gets underway. Capital expendi-
ture as a percentage of total public expenditure increased from 28 percent
during the early sixties to 33 percent during FY 1964/65 - 1967/68. Within
current expenditure, outlays for social and economic development have
recently been increasing. Internal revenue collection continued to increase
fast - it rose by 15 percent in FY 1968/69 and is expected to increase by
23 percent in FY 1969/70. It amounted, however, to only 37 percent of the
total expenditure and around 55 percent of current expenditure in FY 1968/
69. Domestic revenue as a percentage of the public sector's total finan-
cial resources has been rising only slowly. The budget deficit has been
almost entirely financed by Australian grants. In addition, the Terri-
tory has raised some funds through borrowing in the Territory and in
Australia. However, as mentioned in paragraph 12, the Territory has
recently encountered difficulties in raising sufficient funds in the
Australian market.
18.      The Territory's first development program (FYs 1968/69-1972/73)
incorporated many recommendations of the Bank's 1963 survey mission and
its 1967 economic mission. The principal objective of the program is the
expansion of production with greater participation of the indigenous
population. The financing of the program is based on assurances of the
continuation of substantial financial support from the Australian Common-
wealth Government and intensified efforts to mobilize local resources.
19.      The start of copper ore exploitation on Bougainville Island will
bring substantial increases in the Territory's export earnings and public
revenues, but the Territory will continue to be dependent on large scale
external assistance, especially Australian Government grants, for imple-
menting the development program.
20.      The Territory - a separate political entity under Australian
administration but moving towards independence - qualifies for IDA
assistance on grounds of the low per capita income of the indigenous
population (about US$100 per year), limited capacity to save and weak
balance of payments. On its own, the Territory is not creditworthy
for Bank loans, and in lending to it the Bank would be relying on the
guarantee of the Government of Australia* Considering the current



- 7 -
strength and good prospects of the Australian economny, there is no doubt
that Australia is a sound guarantor.
PART VI - CQMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMNT
21.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit and Loan
Agreements would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion and the Banlc.
PART VII - RECCGIEINDATION
22.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 26, 1970



