CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 204 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY
OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 204 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY
OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿Urtir4iopmrut aTrebit Agruntrut
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion) and ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND
NEw GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower);
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development (herein-
after called the Bank) to provide additional financing for
such Project and, by a loan agreement of even date here-
with between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank agrees
to provide such financing in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000) ; and
WHEREAS the Association and the Borrower intend that,
to the extent practicable, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of ex-
penditures under such Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the loan provided for in such loan agreement
are made;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule


﻿4
5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as
so modified, being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and the Borrower, and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated Janu-
ary 31, 1969, as made applicable thereto, all agreements
supplemental to such agreement and all schedules thereto,
as such agreement, supplemental agreements and schedules
may be amended from time to time;
(b) "PWD" means the Department of Public Works of
the Borrower; and
(c) "Standards" means design standards referred to
in Section 4.01(d) of, and defined in Schedule 4 to, this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to four million five hundred
thousand dollars ($4,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.


﻿5
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation shall
be modified from time to lime pursuant to the provisions
of such Schedule or by further agreement among the As-
sociation, the Bank and the Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, 'f the
Association shall so agree, shall be required t< meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gory IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of sixty-five per cent (65%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(iii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories II(a), II(b) and III of said allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included


﻿6
in any of the Categories I, II and III, the Association may
by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage
applicable to such Category as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services
included in such Category.
SECTION 2.04. It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section
5.01 of the General Conditions, that withdrawals from the
Credit Account under Category II of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement may be made on account of
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement but
after April 29, 1969.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby speciied for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1980 and ending
June 15, 2020, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per
cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1 %)
of such principal amount.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit under Category I of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the 'Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August
1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supple-
mentary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of
all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall (except as otherwise provided in such
Schedule) be subject to the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwist-
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used ex-
clusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, administrative, and financial prac-
tices, and shall make available, promptly as needed, all


﻿8
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the roads included in
Parts I through III of the Project to be constructed by
contractors satisfactory to the Association and the Bor-
rower, and employed under contracts satisfactory to the
Association and the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of the
Project, employ consultants acceptable to, and to an extent
and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Asso-
ciation.
(d) The Standards to be used for the roads included in
the Project are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
as such Schedule may be modified by agreement between
the Association and the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the reports, plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and work schedules for the
Project and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(f) The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association regarding insurance
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery to the place of use
and installation of all equipment that is to be imported by
the Borrower and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTIoN 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the public
highway system of the Borrower to be adequately main-
tained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be
made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
foregoing.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be rea-
sonably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles using its public highway system shall not
exceed limits consistent with the structural and geometric
design standards of the roads used.
(c) The Borrower shall collect and record on a continu-
ing basis in accordance with appropriate statistical meth-
ods and procedures such technical, economic and financial
information as shall be reasonably required for proper
planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of
its highway system.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project and to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices, the operations and financial condition of the depart-
ments of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of
the Project or any part thereof; shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and
any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Project, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and the administration and operations with
respect to the Project of the ministries or departments of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rea-
sonably request with regard to the general status of the


﻿10
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
the maintenance -of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at
its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable


﻿11
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
10.01 (b) of the General Conditions; namely, that all the
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment other than the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
that the Ordinance of the Borrower authorizing or ratify-
ing this Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement has been laid before each House of Parliament
of the Commonwealth of Australia.
SECTION 6.03. The date of October 18, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligation of the Borrower under
Section 4.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate on the date on which this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on -a date 30 years after the
date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such -other date as shall be -agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Administrator of the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
His Honour
The Administrator of the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea
Port Moresby
Papua and New Guinea
Address for cables:
Admin
Port Moresby
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, United States of America, as of the
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
By /s/ G. A. Low
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                          in Dollar Equivalent
I. Road construction, improvement
and development                      6,070,000
II. Engineering and Services
(a) By Consultants 1,440,000
(b) By PWD          190,000          1,630,000
III. Management Consultancy Services         80,000
IV. Fellowships (excluding salary)           50,000
V. Unallocated                            1,170,000
9,000,000
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of the De-
velopment Credit Agreement, and shall be applied to ex-
penditures under any of the Categories I through IV, until
the total of such withdrawals, and of the commitments, if
any, in respect of such expenditures, shall have reached
the equivalent of $4,500,000.
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan shall be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan
Agreement, and shall be applied to expenditures under any
of the Categories I through IV, after the amount of the
Credit shall have been exhausted, except that withdrawals
from the Loan Account may be made prior to such exhaus-
tion in respect of commitments referred to in Section
2.04(b) of the Loan Agreement.


﻿15
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I through IV shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association and by
the Bank, or by the Bank, as the case may be, to Cate-
gory V.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I through IV shall increase, an amount
equal, in the case of Category IV, to the portion, if any, of
such increase to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan, or, in the case of Category I, an
amount equal to 65o of such increase, or, in the case of
Categories II (a), II (b) and III, an amount equal to 80o
of such increase, will be allocated at the request of the
Borrower by the Association and the Bank, or by the
Bank, as the case may be, to such Category from Cate-
gory V, subject, however, to the requirements for contin-
gencies, as determined by the Association and the Bank,
or by the Bank, as the case may be, in respect of expendi-
tures under any of the other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part I. Construction of the following new roads to either
primary/flat or primary/hilly Standards and gen-
erally with a gravel surface between:
(a) Kundiawa and Minj (about 25 miles),
(b) Kudjip and Kagamuga (about 22 miles) and
(c) Mount Hagen-Togoba (about 6 miles).
Part II. Construction of a new road between Kaupena
and Assissi (about 35 miles) of secondary/hilly
Standards.
Part III. Surfacing  of Kagamuga-Mount Hagen road
(about 5 miles).
Part IV. Engineering services for:
(a) detailed engineering of works in I through
III above, and for supervision of the construc-
tion thereof ;
(b) detailed engineering for the reconstruction
of Minj-Kudjip road; and
(c) detailed engineering for a new road between
Madang and Kundiawa via Yakumbu.
Part V. Management consultant services to help imple-
ment organizational and administrative changes
in PWD.
Part VI. Fellowships for training abroad of Papuans and
New Guineans in the field of transportation, in
particular, public works.
The Project is expected to be completed by June
30, 1974.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
With respect to contracts for goods and services in
Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment and with reference to Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment, the following procedures shall apply:
(a) For the purpose of bidding, construction shall be
bid in three separate contracts as follows:
(i) Kundiawa-Minj (about 25 miles)
(ii) Kudjip-Mount Hagen (about 27 miles)
(iii) Mount  Hagen-Togoba     and  Kaupena-Assissi
(about 41 miles)
Bids for all parts shall be called simultaneously. Bidders
shall have the opportunity to bid for one, or any combina-
tion, of the three contracts and the evaluation of bids shall
be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid or bids.
(b) Prior to issuing invitation for tenders, the Borrower
will submit to the Association and to the Bank for approval
a copy of the tender documents and a list or lists of pre-
qualified contractors.
(c) The time interval referred to in Section 3.1 of the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits between the invitation to bid and bid opening
shall be not less than 60 days.
(d) Bid bonds shall be required of tenderers in accord-
ance with Section 2.5 of said Guidelines.
(e) The successful tenderer or tenderers shall furnish a
performance bond or bonds to the value of six per cent
(6%) of the contract price or prices, which bond or bonds
shall remain in force until six months after completion of
the works to which the bond or bonds apply.


﻿18
(f) Prior to awarding any contract, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association and the Bank for approval an
official record of the opening of bids, an evaluation of the
bids received, the Consultants' recommendations to the
Borrower, if any, on the bidding and the Borrower's pro-
posal concerning the contract and the award.
(g) As soon as possible after the execution of any con-
tract and prior to the submission to the Association or to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account or from the Loan Account in
respect thereof, a certified copy of such contract shall be
sent to the Association and the Bank.


﻿SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
(i) Geometric
Absolute          Max. Length
Min. Radius Normal at Normal  Absolute Max. Length Forma-   Pave-
Design of Horizontal Maximum Maximum  Maximum at Abs. Max.  tion   ment
Speed  Curvature  Gradient  Gradient  Gradient  Gradient  Width   Width
(mph)     (ft)     (%)       (ft)     (%)        (ft)     (ft)     (ft)
Primary/Flat-Rolling         50       800       4       6,000       7       3,000    34-40     22
Primary/Hilly                40       500       6       4,000       8       2,000    32-38     22
Primary/Mountainous         25-30     170       8       1,600      10        800       26      20
1
Secondary/Flat-Rolling       40       500       6       4,000       8      2,000       34      20
Secondary/Hilly              30       250       8       2,000      10      1,000       28      20
Secondary/Mountainous      20-30      100      10       1,500      12        750       24      18
1
Tertiary/Flat-Rolling        40       500       6       4,000       8      2,000       28      12
Tertiary/Hilly               20       100      10       1,500      12        750       22      12
Tertiary/Mountainous         15        60      12       1,000      14        500       22      12
(ii) Structural
a) Loading N.A.A.S.R.A.      H20-S16-44 loading
b) Width     Bridges up to 150 ft total length, 24 ft carriageway; bridges of total length 150 ft
or greater, 12 ft carriageway.
1 Primary' standard implies 500-5000 vpd within ten years of design year; 'Secondary' implies 100-500 vpd, and
'Tertiary' 30-100 vpd


﻿20
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Development Credit Agreement,
the provisions of the General Conditions are modified as
follows:
(A) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing paragraph is substituted therefor:
"5. The term 'Borrower'means the Administration of
the Territory of Papua and New Guinea".
(B) The last four lines of Section 4.01 shall read as fol-
lows:
"may be made in respect of expenditures in the cur-
rency of the Commonwealth of Australia or of the
Borrower, such withdrawals shall be made in such cur-
rency or currencies as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably select".
(C) Sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph C of Section 6.02 is
deleted and the following paragraph is substituted
therefor:
" (ii) the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under any loan agreement with the Bank guaranteed
by the Commonwealth of Australia because of a failure
by the Commonwealth of Australia to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement".
(D) Paragraph (d) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the fol-
lowing paragraph is substituted therefor:
" (d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Project can
be carried out or that the Borrower will be able to
perform its obligations under the Development Credit


﻿21
Agreement or there shall occur any such change in
the nature and constitution of the Borrower as shall
make it improbable that the Borrower will be able
to carry out its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement".
(E) The words ' The Borrower" are deleted in paragraph
(e) of Section 6.02 and in the sixth line of Section
7.01(b) and the words "The Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia" are substituted therefor.
(F) The term "or the Commonwealth of Australia, as the
case may be" is added after the word "Borrower" in
paragraph (k) of Section 8.03.
(G) Paragraph (a) of Section 10.01 is deleted and the
following paragraph is substituted therefor:
" (a) the execution and delivery of the Development
Credit Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary govern-
mental action, including action of the Commonwealth
of Australia; and".


