Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3963-AF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Support for Institution Building) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 4, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3963-AF 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 2004, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
June 29, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 2004) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12 is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
f. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission” means an 
independent commission constituted under the Borrower’s laws; 
 
(b) 
“Basic Package of Health Services” means the Borrower’s programs that 
provide health services to mothers, infants, and children under five years of age; 
 
(c) 
“Da Afghanistan Bank” means the Borrower’s central bank; 
 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Ministry of Education” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any 
successor entity acceptable to the Association; 
 
(f) 
“Ministry of Justice” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice or any 
successor entity acceptable to the Association; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(g) 
“National Solidarity Program” means the Borrower’s rural reconstruction and 
rehabilitation program which supports strengthening participatory governance at the community 
level and grants to communities for rural infrastructure improvements; and 
 
(h) 
“Priority Reform and Restructuring Program” means the Borrower’s civil 
service reform program managed by the Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service 
Commission under which allocations are made to government employees. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 54,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain with its central bank, a deposit 
account in United States dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 20, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and 
December 15 commencing December 15, 2014 and ending June 15, 2044. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on June 15, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and           
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
Page  7
-
5
-
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred; and  
 
(b) 
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken 
under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /S/ Said Tayeb Jawad 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /S/ Alastair McKechnie 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods, works, or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods, works, or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency, other than the Bank or the Association, shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed, or 
agreed to finance, under another grant, credit, or a loan;  
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods, works, or services intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose (including police forces) or for luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Page  12
-
10
-
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower's cabinet has adopted an ordinary and a development budget for its 
fiscal year 1383, which, among other things, contains: (i) an adequate financing and fiscal 
framework, which shows the sources of the financing of the deficit; (ii) an increase in 
aggregate allocations to provinces above allotments in fiscal year 1382; (iii) an increase 
in aggregate non-salary allocations to provinces above allotments in fiscal year 1382; (iv) 
an increase in the allocation to the Basic Package of Health Services above fiscal year 
1382; (v) an increase in the ordinary budgetary allocation to the Ministry of Education 
above fiscal year 1382; and (vi) an increase in the allocation to the National Solidarity 
Program above fiscal year 1382. 
 
2. 
The Borrower's government has submitted to its Ministry of Justice a draft of the 
Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law, which includes the budget 
preparation process and applicable standards of transparency and financial reporting. 
 
3. 
The Borrower's Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service 
Commission has approved placing 3,000 government staff positions under an elevated 
pay-scale in accordance with the government's Priority Reform and Restructuring 
Program. 
 
4.  
The 
Borrower’s Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service 
Commission has approved placing Da Afghanistan Bank's staff under an elevated pay-
scale in accordance with the government’s Priority Reform and Restructuring Program. 
 
5. 
 The Borrower's cabinet has adopted a tax reform package which includes: 
(i) wage withholding; (ii) a fixed tax (10 percent) on selected services (hotel, restaurant, 
telecommunication and international air travel); (iii) a reduction in the corporate tax rate 
(to 20 percent); and (iv) withholding tax on rental income (20 percent). 
 
6. 
The Borrower's cabinet has adopted Income Tax Law amendments which (i) give 
effect to the Decree of June 7, 2004 which provides for the Income Tax Law and the 
Customs Law to be preferred and applied if there is a conflict between those laws and 
other laws or agreements that provide for concessional tax treatment, (ii) provide 
alternative tax concessions (accelerated depreciation and loss carry-forward) for 
companies that are registered under the proposed investment law and for companies that 
enjoyed tax holidays under the 1381 Investment Law, and (iii) include appropriate 
transition rules. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has prepared a draft procurement law and accompanying procurement 
regulations. 
Page  14
-
12
-
