Page  1
 
 
Project Information Document (PID)                                
28526
 
 
 
Project Name
  
 
AFGHANISTAN - Programmatic Structural Adjustment 
Credit I 
Region
 
   South 
Asia 
Regional 
Office 
Sector
 
   Central 
Government 
Administration 
(100%) 
Theme
 
   Macroeconomic 
Management 
(P) 
 
 
 
 
Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement (P) 
Project
 
   P078618 
Borrower(s)
 
 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
Implementing Agency (ies)
 
Ministry of Finance 
    Address: 
Pashtonistan 
Watt 
  Kabul, Afghanistan 
 
 
 
 
Contact Person:  Mr. Abdul Salam Rahimy (Deputy Minister) 
 
 
 
 
Tel: 93 2102838       Email: salam.rahimi@afghanistangov.org  
Environment Category
 U 
Date PID Prepared
 
 
April 7, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Country background.
  Afghanistan is one of the world’s poorest countries.  After two decades of 
conflict, significant progress has been made to secure peace and start the reconstruction of the 
country.  Growth has reached 30 percent in 2002 and 23 percent in 2003.  About 2.5 million 
Afghans have returned to their home country.  More than 4 million children are now back to 
school.  The Government has initiated important structural reforms, including a successful 
currency reform, and is making progress to better manage public finance.  A new Constitution has 
been approved in January 2004.  A recent international conference held in March 2004 in Berlin 
confirmed international support to the Afghan Government. 
 
Numerous challenges remain.  Security is an issue in many parts of the country.  The drug 
economy remains very strong.  The Government’s challenge consists in extending its reform 
program beyond Kabul and to implement reforms that, beyond the initial steps of state building, 
will generate broad based growth. 
 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.
  The Government laid out its reform strategy in the 
National 
Development Framework 
in April 2002 and reaffirmed it in the 
Securing Afghanistan’s Future
 
report presented at the Berlin Conference.  To implement its strategy, the Government needs 
multi-year financial support that is not linked to specific projects, but that can support its entire 
reform program.  Adjustment lending is proposed, at the request of the Government, to support 
the implementation of the Government’s medium-term development strategy within the context 
of a secure environment and a supportive macroeconomic framework.   
 
2. Proposed Objective 
 
The primary objective of the Credits is to strengthen public administration and budget 
management.  The Credits also support policy measures to build human capital and promote 
reforms for broad-based private sector led growth.  The Credits will allow the authorities to 
Page  2
 
 
provide resources to the provinces, thereby contributing to the nation-building effort.  Finally, the 
Credits support reforms to improve fiduciary standards in public finance management, which, in 
turn, reduce the risk of implementation not only of these Credits but also of all other projects and 
are a key element for continuous poverty reducing assistance. 
 
3.  Preliminary Description
 
 
The Credit of SDRxx million (US$80 million equivalent) is the first of a series of operations 
aimed at supporting the implementation of the Government of Afghanistan’s (GOA) medium-
term development strategy within the context of a secure environment and a supportive 
macroeconomic framework.   The operations take the form of Programmatic Structural 
Adjustment Credits (PSACs) of which the current Credit (PSAC I) is the first.  They will provide 
rolling support to the Government’s reform program with each operation specifying a set of 
triggers which, when met, provide the basis for proceeding with the next operation. 
 
The primary focus of these operations is to strengthen public administration and budget 
management.  The following key areas are supported by the operations: civil service, 
administrative capacity, budget preparation, public sector financial management, procurement, 
and revenue mobilization and management.  Improvements in these areas will raise fiduciary 
safeguards which is a key element for continuous poverty reducing assistance.   
 
In addition, the operations will support selected core reforms in the area of human development 
and private sector development, using the budget as a key policy instrument.  The operations will 
support the Government’s efforts to build human capital through the implementation of reforms 
in health, basic education and social protection.  The operations will also support the creation of 
an enabling environment for private sector development through improvement in the investment 
climate, development of the financial sector, and creation of level playing field with state-owned 
enterprise.  These reforms will be further supported by sectoral operations and technical 
assistance aiming at developing institutions and promoting investment.   
 
4.  Safeguard policies 
 
The proposed Credit supports a broad spectrum of economy-wide policies and institutions.  For 
the purpose of Operational Directive 8.60, environmental and social assessments are not required 
and the Credit has been place in category U.  The program is not expected to result in any 
negative impact on the environment.  Social aspects (through development and targeting of social 
protection, public administration reform, and SOE reform) will be monitored during 
implementation.  During implementation, the proposed Credit needs to follow the Social and 
Environmental Safeguards Framework applied to other IDA-financed projects.  For that purpose, 
IDA has developed a Capacity Assessment and Building for Social and Environmental 
Management program, to which the MOF and other implementing Ministries will be invited.
 
 
5.  Financing  
 
The IDA Credit’s amount is SDRxx million (US$80 million equivalent). 
 
Page  3
 
 
6.  Contact Point:
 
 
Task Team Leaders:  
Philippe Auffret 
   The 
World 
Bank 
Group 
   1818 
H 
Street, 
N.W. 
MSN MC10-1004 
   Washington, 
D.C. 
20433 
   Telephone: 
202-473-7174 
   Facsimile: 
 
202-522-0356 
   Email:pauffret@worldbank.org 
 
 
   
Stephane Guimbert 
   The 
World 
Bank 
Group 
   1818 
H 
Street, 
N.W. 
MSN MC10-1004 
   Washington, 
D.C. 
20433 
   Telephone: 
202-458-9030 
   Facsimile: 
 
202-522-0356 
   Email:sguimbert@worldbank.org  
 
