                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                        Report No. 33000




                SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                       THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN


               PROGRAMMATIC SUPPORT FOR INSTITUTION BUILDING


                                  CREDIT NO. 39630-AF


                                   SEPTEMBER 16, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region


                           Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                    For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Operation ID: P078618                                       Operation Name: Programmatic Support for
                                                            Institution Building
Team Leaders: Stéphane Guimbert, Philippe Auffret           TL Unit: SASPR
                                                            Report Date: September 16, 2005



1. Program Data
                Name: Programmatic Support for Institution Building      L/C Number:     Credit No. 39630-AF
  Country/Department: Poverty Reduction and Economic Management               Region:    South Asia
      Sector/subsector: Economic Policy
               Theme:   Other Social Protection and Risk Management, Regulation and
                        Competition Policy, Tax Policy and Administration



KEY DATES
                                                                     Original              Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:     March 23, 2004                           Effective:   August 5, 2004        August 5, 2004
  Appraisal:   June 28, 2004                               MTR:
  Approval:    July 29, 2004                             Closing:    March 20, 2005        March 20, 2005

  Borrower/Implementing Agency:     The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
                  Other Partners:   -



STAFF                      Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:            Praful Patel                              Praful Patel
Country Director:          Alastair McKechnie                        Alastair McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Kapil Kapoor                              Kapil Kapoor
Team Leaders at ICR:       Stéphane Guimbert, Philippe               Philippe Auffret, Stéphane Guimbert
                           Auffret
ICR Primary Authors:       Stéphane Guimbert, Philippe
                           Auffret




                                                     1

2. Principal Performance Ratings
 (HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                           Outcome: S
                                      Sustainability: L
               Institutional Development Impact: SU
                                Bank Performance: S
                           Borrower Performance: S



                                                       QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: n/a                                S
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time: No


3. Program Description
3.a. Description of the program
Since the establishment of the Afghanistan Interim Administration in December 2001, significant
progress has been made toward restoring economic growth and rebuilding the State. The Government of
Afghanistan's (GoA) development strategy was initially formulated in the National Development
Framework (NDF) of April 2002 and further strengthened in the document Securing Afghanistan's Future
(SAF) presented at the donors' conference held in Berlin in March 2004 and the recent document
Accelerating Afghanistan Development presented by the new Government at the Afghan Development
Forum held in Kabul in April 2005.


The Government's strategy can be articulated around five reform areas of development (see Section III of
Program Document and Annex 1 of this ICR):
  ·   Promoting Security and Rule of Law. Security and rule of law are fundamental prerequisites for
      political normalization, national reconciliation, reconstruction, and social development.
  ·   Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability. Maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework is a
      prerequisite for broad-based economic growth.
  ·   Strengthening Public Administration and Fiscal Management. This key element of the strategy
      includes the following areas: civil service, administrative capacity, budget preparation, public
      sector financial management, procurement, and revenue mobilization and management.
  ·   Enhancing Human Development. Building human capital through the implementation of reforms in
      health, basic education and social protection is the key for long-term growth.
  ·   Promoting Private Sector Development. The strategy supports the creation of an enabling
      environment for private sector development through improvement in the investment climate,
      provision of infrastructure including transport, power and telecommunications, financial sector
      development, state-owned enterprise restructuring, trade reform, agriculture development, and
      development of the oil, gas and mining sectors.


3.b. Description of the operation
The GoA had requested IDA to support an important subset of the five areas of reforms outlined in its
strategy (cf. Letter of Development Policy attached to the Program Document for PSIB 1). The overall
objective of the Programmatic Support for Institution Building (PSIB) Credits is to provide rolling



                                                               2

support to the Government's objective to deepen, broaden, and sustain the reforms underway in the areas
of public administration and fiscal management. The implementation of these reforms will in turn
facilitate a more efficient allocation of fiscal resources to priority activities in the areas of human
development and private sector development.


The PSIBs are expected to be a series of one-tranche operations, with each operation specifying a set of
triggers which, when met, provide the basis for proceeding with the next operation. The first of these
operations was approved by IDA's Board of Directors on July 29, 2004. The country assistance strategy
related to this operation is outlined in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) of the World Bank Group
for Afghanistan (IDA/R-2003-0022) discussed at the Board in April 2003.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs1

Progress under the main objective, strengthening public administration and fiscal management, has
overall been satisfactory. This progress has been supported by strong achievements in the area of
macroeconomic stability. Progress under the other objectives, human development and private sector
development, has also been positive, although progress has been less even.


Overall, the reforms supported by PSIB 1 are expected to have a substantial institutional development
impact in the areas of macroeconomic stability, public administration, and fiscal management: domestic
revenues have increased substantially; laws are being gazetted; progress on fiduciary standards has a
significant impact on the effectiveness of public expenditure, as well as aid mobilization; an increasing
proportion of today's and tomorrow's administration is selected on a merit base. While much remains to
be done, these achievements provide a strong basis on which the reform program can build in the future.
Progress in delivering health and education services is already highlighted by higher enrollment and
health service coverage. The impact of financial reforms is also substantial as evidenced by significant
improvements in the national payment system and the licensing of several commercial banks. The
sustainability of these achievements is likely: some of them rely on legal reforms; the recruitment and
administrative reform process will have a lasting impact.


It is somewhat early to draw definite conclusions on the sustainability of these achievements. The overall
reform program is subject to country-wide and capacity risks.               More generally, in a post-conflict
environment like Afghanistan, the implementation of such a reform agenda presents a number of
difficulties given weak implementation capacity, fragile political consensus, and constraints imposed by
the security situation: as such, program implementation and supervision requires particular flexibility.


The rest of this section describes progress in the main areas of reforms supported by PSIB 1. Triggers for
PSIB 2, as described in the program document for PSIB 1, are shown in bold.


4.a. Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
Macroeconomic Policy. Progress under this trigger ("Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework, including progress in raising domestic revenues") has been satisfactory. The GoA has
maintained a stable macroeconomic framework as evidenced by the successful completion of the fourth
quarterly review under the IMF Staff-Monitored Program (SMP), with the Government meeting all the



1 Annex 1 provides a matrix of achievements under PSIB 1, focusing on PSIB 1's prior actions and the PSIB 2 triggers as
described in Paras. 104 and 106 of the Program Document.



                                                             3

end-June 2005 quantitative indicators and structural benchmarks with one exception.2 Following two
years of strong economic growth (29 percent in 2002/03, 16 percent in 2003/04), economic growth
decreased to 8 percent (excluding opium) in 2004/05, reflecting the combined effects of a severe drought
and a fragile security situation which negatively impacted on investments (Table 1). Economic growth is
expected to reach 14 percent in 2005/06, largely reflecting a rebound in agricultural output due to better
precipitation. Poppy cultivation has declined significantly in 2004/05, but this has not translated into a
substantial reduction in opium production, as the decline in planted areas was largely offset by an increase
in yields stemming from better weather conditions. Inflation in 2005/06 is expected to remain stable
around 10 percent, after a peak at 16 percent in 2004/05 due to higher rents and petroleum product prices.
The exchange rate has remained stable.


                                                  Table 1: Macro-economic Indicators
                                                        2001/02   2002/03  2003/04  2004/05 2005/06  2006/07   2007/08
                                                                      Estimates                     Projections
A. Output
 GDP (US$ million, excluding opium production)             2,463    4,084     4,585   5,975   7,130     8,562    9,951
 GDP (millions of new Afghani)                           133,987  182,862   225,108 284,504 355,338  426,708   495,946
 Real GDP growth rate                                         ...    28.6      15.7     8.0      14        11       11
 GDP per capita (in US dollars)                              123      182       199     253     293       342      386
 Opium production (metric tons)                              185    3,400     3,600   4,200   4,100        ...      ...
 Opium value (millions of US dollars)                         56    1,300     2,300   2,200      ...       ...      ...
B. Prices
 CPI (% year-on-year change)                               (43.4)    52.1      10.2    16.3      10         8        5
C. Exchange rates
 Afghani/US dollars (average during solar year)             54.4     44.8      49.0    47.7      ...       ...      ...
 Afghani/US dollars (end-solar year)                        31.0     52.6      50.3    48.7      ...       ...      ...
D. Monetary indicators
 Domestic currency in circulation (percentage change)   ...          20.1      40.9    37.5      28        23       ...
 Gross foreign exchange reserves (US$ million)          ...           426       816   1,261   1,691     2,036       ...
Source: GoA, UNODC, IMF.


Revenue collections in 2004/05 have reached US$269 million. This represents a 26 percent increase (in
local currency) over the previous year, which met the IMF's SMP benchmark. It fell short of the
budgeted target of US$309 million, however, in part due to the late payment of overflight fees: tax
revenues (which exclude these fees) grew by 52 percent. Operating expenditures remained under control.
The implementation of the development budget has been slower than expected: while this reflects the fact
that a large amount was initially unallocated (earmarked to a National Priority Program fund), it also
highlights implementation constraints (see next section). This has led to a significant accumulation of
resources on GoA's accounts: while some accumulation is appropriate to accommodate delays in
mobilizing financing and budgeting shocks, budget realism needs to be carefully assessed.


The operating budget for 2005/06, approved before the start of the fiscal year (March 21), is prudent.
Domestic revenues are expected to increase modestly to US$333 million (up from US$309 million in
2004/05). Operating expenditures are budgeted to grow broadly in line with nominal GDP, and this
despite significant pressures for additional spending. The Government also adopted a development
budget for 2005/06 setting the core development budget at US$1.2 billion and the external budget at
US$3.2 billion. The Government is committed to continue to follow the no-overdraft financing rule and
to fund the budget deficit from domestic revenues, grants, and limited highly concessional loans.




2Cf. http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2005/cr05237.pdf.



                                                                   4

                                            Table 2: Fiscal Outcomes (US$ million)
                                                                        2002/03      2003/04     2004/05      2005/06
                                                                       Estimates Estimates Estimates          Budget
                   A. Domestic Revenues                                      131          208          269         333
                   B. Expenditures (B1+B2)                                   346          645          829      1,887
                    B.1. Ordinary Expenditures                               346          452          560         678
                         Wages                                                            299          396         419
                         Goods and Services                                                 95          88         142
                         Capital Expenditures                                              41           41          47
                         Others                                                             17          35          69
                    B.2. Development Expenditures                             -           193          269      1,209
                   C. Budget Deficit (A-B)                                   -215         -438         -560     -1,554
                   D. Financing Need (D1+D2+D3)                              215          438          560      1,554
                     D.1. External Grants                                    210          299          487      1,062
                         ARTF                                                  79         217          292         358
                         LOFTA and Army Trust Fund                             17           36          54          67
                         Others                                              114            46         141         637
                     D.2. External Loans                                      -           100          309         492
                          of which PSIB                                       -            -            80         -
                     D.3. Change in GoA's Account at DAB a/                     5           39        (236)          0
                   Memo: External Budget                                      -         1,521        2,101      3,178
                     a/ includes float and adjustment. Note: this table focuses on the "Core Budget", which comprises
                     all resources flowing through Government's accounts (including PSIB proceeds). The external
                     budget (memo item) includes external assistance directly disbursed from donors to non-
                     governmental implementing agency. Source: GoA, IMF.


Budget Process. There has been slow progress on the preparation of the Medium-Term Fiscal
Framework (MTFF). With support from IDA and the IMF, significant analytical preparation has been
undertaken to review the key drivers of revenues and expenditures. The Government has presented two
simple multi-year fiscal scenarios at the Afghanistan Development Forum held in Kabul in April 2005.
The Government is also committed to develop an MTFF as part of the interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy (ANDS) that it is now under preparation. However, the Government has not yet
prepared or published such a framework.


On the budget process itself, the Government has made further progress. A mid-year review, fully
institutionalized in 2004/05, has improved budget implementation, also creating a strong base for the
following year's budget preparation. A new Chart of Accounts has been introduced in March 2005,
which brings budget classification to international standards. In the MoF, a Fiscal Policy Unit was
created in June 2005 and is taking the lead in coordinating fiscal policy. The Public Finance and
Expenditure Management (PFEM) Law was gazetted in June 2005 (submission to MoJ was a PSIB 1
prior action and gazetting a trigger for PSIB 2, see below).


Revenue Policy and Administration. The implementation of the tax reform package adopted in 2004
(PSIB 1 prior action) has started. The Income Tax Code was amended in March 2005 to give MoF
authority to implement these additional revenue mobilization measures. In addition, progress has been
made on the administrative side, with steady implementation of the five-year strategic plans for Customs
and Revenue Administration. As a result, tax revenues have increased by more than 50 percent between
2003/04 and 2004/05.

4.b. Strengthening Public Administration and Fiscal Management
Government Structure and Personnel Management. Progress has been satisfactory on the "civil
service efficiency" trigger as evidence by positive developments toward almost all triggers.




                                                                     5

    -   (i) Maintaining the increase in number of un-uniformed central government employees
        (except teachers) below 10,000 compared to end-June 2004 level, and initiating a census of
        all government employees: the size of the Government (number of un-uniformed employees
        except teachers), as measured by monthly salary payments, has remained stable around 100,000,
        while the number of teachers has been increasing by more than 10,000 in 2004/05. Despite low
        capacity, the Afghan Registration Authority has initiated a census of the population including all
        government employees and 6,000 Afghan Personal Identification Numbers have been issued.
    -   (ii) Gazetting of a new Civil Service Law and Code of Ethics for government employees: a
        Presidential Decree on a Code of Conduct for government functionaries was approved in
        December 2004 and the new Civil Service Law was adopted by Cabinet in August 2005 (it
        remains to be gazetted).
    -   (iii) Making progress according to the Government's Verified Payroll Plan: good progress
        has been made under the Government's Verified Payroll Plan as evidenced in particular by an
        increase in the number of individualized salary payments (see Annex 1) although further progress
        is constrained by lack of resources.
    -   (iv) Continuing implementation of the PRR program to include 15,000 positions: progress
        has been made under the PRR process (which allows administrative departments to place staff on
        an elevated pay scale in exchange for organizational restructuring) with more than 15,000
        positions placed under PRR. Recently, weaknesses in the PRR implementation have emerged.
        The program has been slowed down to address these weaknesses and ensure that the program
        results in higher administrative efficiency gains. The monitoring and evaluation of the program is
        also strengthened.
    -   (v) Steady increase in the percentage of senior positions (level 2 and above) selected on a
        merit-basis (i.e. by IARCSC): Grade 3 and below appointments are made at the ministry level,
        while the Independent Appointment Board of the IARCSC now approves about eighty senior
        appointments per month using merit-based processes (starting from none a year and a half ago).


Pensions. Progress toward this trigger ("Preparation of a draft Pension Law and proposed plan of
financing") has been more limited. Analytical work to support policy decisions has been initiated by the
IARCSC with support from the Bank. The process requires: (i) data on demographics of the civil service,
(ii) an understanding of the emerging pay scale and number of public employees, and (iii) further
interaction with key individuals from the IARCSC, the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MoLSA),
and MoF in order to make an informed decision. As a consequence, a draft law with financing plan is not
expected to be ready soon. There are two reasons for this slow progress. First, this reform requires
significant data collection, for which there is limited capacity. Second, this reform also requires intensive
interactions between the IARCSC, the MoLSA, and the MoF than has been possible in a period with
several changes in key officials.


Subnational Administration. Progress has been uneven in this area. The allotment to provinces (which
was increased as a PSIB 1 Prior Action) was revised during the year and the 2004/05 share of
expenditures in provinces was similar to 2003/04 (with an increase in the salary component offset by a
decrease in the non-salary component). Progress was substantial in terms of reporting and fiduciary
standards (see below). The PRR scheme was also piloted for a Governor's Office in Balkh, which could
provide a strong base for replication. A draft policy paper on the role of Provincial Planning and
Development Council has been prepared. However, a subnational strategy remains to be fully defined,
possibly in the ANDS.




                                                          6

Fiduciary Standards (cf. monitoring framework in Annex 2). Progress toward "raising fiduciary
standards" has been satisfactory as evidenced by progress toward most of the benchmarks.
    -   (i) steady decrease in ARTF ineligibility ratio: ARTF ineligibility ratios have decreased
        considerably. This results from actions taken by the Government, including (i) development of
        an effective system to track advances, (ii) conditioning of new advances on the acquittal of
        previous ones, (iii) improved documentation of expenses by ministries, and (iv) inclusion of a
        provision in the Budget Decrees (2004/05 and 2005/06) which empowers the MoF to sanction
        ministries and agencies by reducing their budget by the amount of ineligible expenditures. As a
        consequence, eligibility in 2004/05 has remained above 90 percent for "wages and salaries" and
        has increased from 20 percent in 2003/04 to 90 percent in 2004/05 for "operations and
        maintenance". These improvements also build on a number of structural improvements as
        developed below.
    -   (ii) initiation of rolling out of AFMIS to Provinces and line ministries: two ministries have
        been given access to the reporting functions of the Afghanistan Financial Management
        Information System (AFMIS), and a pilot in the province of Herat is under consideration. Further
        rolling out of AFMIS will depend on Treasury's human and financial resources. Slowing down
        the rolling out of AFMIS was also viewed as advisable as the Government initiates a Systems
        Study to review the required functionalities for this information system.
    -   (iii) gazetting and implementation of the Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law
        which includes public release of quarterly reports on budget execution (including revenues
        and expenditures by Ministry and Province against appropriations, allocation of
        contingencies), preparation and audit of final accounts for 2003/04, consolidation of all
        Government's accounts into the Treasury Single Account, and preparation of the 2004/05
        budget document in line with the standards outlined in the law: the PFEM Law was gazetted
        in June 2005 (requiring improvements in budget documentation and reporting, clarifying financial
        responsibilities, and mandating an independent audit of the Government's annual financial
        statements). Some of the provisions have already been implemented during 2004/05: monthly
        fiscal reports are now available on the Government's website, the 2003/04 annual statements have
        been prepared (they have been presented to Cabinet, but not released to the public), most
        Government's accounts have been audited by the Controller and Audit Office (external auditor),
        and the Treasury has made further progress toward the consolidation of banking arrangements
        into the Treasury Single Account.
    -   (iv) gazetting of a Procurement Law and procurement regulations, and creation of a Public
        Procurement Unit: there was initially limited progress toward that benchmark, in part due to the
        lack of a clear champion in the Government. After continuous engagement from the IDA team,
        the MoF is now taking the lead in this area and the Procurement law is expected to be gazetted in
        October 2005 (it is a Prior Action for PSIB 2). The Law was sent to Cabinet for approval in early
        September 2005. The MoF is also committed to create a Procurement Policy Unit.
    -   (v) gazetting of an Audit Law: the key provisions to require an external audit of the
        Government's financial accounts (and its release to the National Assembly together with the
        Government's follow-up plan) were included in the recently gazetted PFEM Law (art. 59-60).


4.c. Enhancing Human Development
Health. Recent developments in the health sector are encouraging and represent satisfactory progress to
meet the trigger for PSIB 2 ("Proper monitoring and evaluation of health delivery as evidenced by
the completion of a baseline evaluation of service delivery performance by MoH and NGOs") as
evidenced by the completion of a Health Facility Assessment in 2004, covering all provinces (which is
repeated in August 2005). In the short term, the sector's main objective is to expand the delivery of basic
health services through Performance-based Partnership Agreements (PPA) with NGO service providers



                                                        7

and direct delivery by the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH). The MoPH and its partners have made
significant progress in delivering the basic package of health services in 11 provinces.           Health
Management Information System (HMIS) data suggests that the number of outpatient visits has tripled
over the last year and that antenatal care has increased from 4.6 percent in the baseline survey to 65
percent in the PPA provinces (the latter data comes from the HMIS). These results reflect a number of
achievements, including increase by 66 percent in the number of functioning health centers, an increase in
the number of facilities with trained female health workers (from 25 percent at baseline to 62 percent at
mid-2005), and deployment of thousands of community health workers. Clearly more remains to be done
to further increase the coverage and improve the quality of care. The new Government is working on a
strategy for the sector as part of the ANDS.


Education.     Progress in education ("Assurance that budget allocation for education leads to
increased provision and quality of primary and secondary education") is also satisfactory as
evidenced by progress toward the three benchmarks:
    -   (i) initiation of a baseline assessment of existing teachers' number and qualification: the
        Ministry of Education (MoE) has completed a school survey which includes number of teachers
        and qualification.
    -   (ii) development of a certification program for existing and new teachers: a Teacher
        Education Program (TEP) to train and certify teachers started in the summer of 2004. However,
        its implementation is slower than expected due to capacity constraints.
    -   (iii) development of MoE's financial management system and strengthening of MoE's
        capacity: a Program Management Unit in the MoE was created in 2004. MoE's capacity is
        increasing albeit very slowly.


The increase in provision of primary and secondary education is in addition evidence by the substantial
progress made in terms of enrollment (from 1 million in 1999 to almost 4.5 million in 2004). Recurrent
spending on education increased (a PSIB 1 Prior Action) by almost 50% between 2003/04 and 2004/05
and a further increase is budgeted for 2005/06. Moving forward, the Government is committed to
improve its strategy for the sector, to be included in the ANDS.


Social Protection. Allocation to the National Solidarity Program (NSP) was increased in 2004/05 (PSIB
1 Prior Action). Implementation continues successfully: as of May 2005, almost 8,000 villages have
elected Community Development Councils (up from 5,400 in August 2004), 8,500 projects have been
approved (up from 3,300), 500 have been completed (up from 20), and US$92 million have been
disbursed (up from US$29 million).


4.d. Promoting Private Sector Development
Investment Climate. There has been moderately satisfactory progress towards improving the investment
climate ("Review of legislations, regulations and procedures related to private investments in order
to simplify and harmonize them in line with international best practice"). Key areas of the legal
framework have been reviewed and draft laws have been prepared in several areas. The Law on
Domestic and Foreign Investment gazetted in late 2002 is deemed weak. A draft of a new Law on
Foreign and Domestic Private Investment has been completed. Tax-related articles have been gazetted
with the Income Tax Amendments in March 2005, which replaced the system of tax holidays and
exemptions by two types of tax incentives - accelerated depreciation and unlimited loss carry-forward
(see above). Work has also begun on drafting regulations regarding mortgages. A Commission is also
working on formulating a law on land transfer for industrial parks as well as providing a legal foundation
for the Industrial Parks Authority.      There is some progress in developing a legal and regulatory



                                                          8

framework for business organizations, secured transactions and loans, bankruptcy, insurance and leasing.
The current Business Organizations Law is obsolete and a new Law has been drafted.


Despite progress in reviewing the legal framework, progress in revising these laws in order to create an
adequate legal and regulatory framework for private sector development has been slow, mostly reflecting
limited capacity in the Ministry of Justice. This will require the reform agenda moving forward to focus
on a limited number of legal reforms.

Financial Sector Reform. There has been generally satisfactory "progress on financial sector reform
including strengthening the regulatory framework, modernization of the Central Bank, and
resolution of the state-owned commercial banks" as evidenced by a review of progress in the three
areas:
    -   Regulatory Framework: Progress will be measured by the elaboration of internationally
        accepted prudential regulations for all core sectors of banking (licensing, monitoring and
        closure) and the strengthening of the banking supervision function of the Central Bank:
        both the DAB (Central Bank) Law and the Banking Law have been gazetted. DAB has started
        issuing prudential regulations and training has started to build up the supervision function
        capacity. There is now a need to define the regulatory framework of non-banking financial
        institutions.
    -   Central Bank modernization: Progress will be measured by (i) installation of technical
        hardware and software equipment in the Central Bank and at least 6 regional Central Bank
        branches: there has been some progress in improving the equipment of DAB and its regional
        branches; (ii) implementation and completion of the PRR program at DAB: implementation
        of the PRR program has been completed; (iii) preparation of externally audited financial
        statements in accordance with international accounting standards: an external audit of the
        2003/04 financial statements of DAB based on internationally recognized accounting standards
        has been completed and published; (iv) steady reduction in the Central Bank's commercial
        banking functions where private banks have demonstrated capacity to develop these
        functions: divestment by DAB of its commercial banking activities (commercial current and
        savings accounts) has been completed at headquarters and has started in other Kabul-based
        branches and in provinces where commercial banks are active.
    -   Resolution of state-owned commercial banks: Progress will be measured by (i) completion
        of re-licensing of commercial banks: the resolution of the six state-owned banks is making good
        progress. Three of these banks (Millie, Pashtany, and Export Promotion Bank) have been re-
        licensed (the first two in July 2004 and the third one in September 2004). Their re-licensing
        includes conditionalities for improved performance (for example, modernization of lending
        policies, prudential ratios, divesting of real estate, hiring of qualified management, etc), to be
        reviewed on a regular basis. Once the conditions are met, these banks will fall under the normal,
        lighter, supervision procedures. (ii) initiation of a resolution for the banks that have not been
        re-licensed: The other three banks have not been re-licensed and are expected to be restructured.
        The Government is committed to prepare a long-term strategic plan for this restructuring, but
        progress has been limited.

State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) Reform. There has been satisfactory progress in this area ("Progress
in SOE reform as evidenced by the continued implementation of a plan for SOE restructuring").
Progress has been made on three of the key building blocks toward SOE restructuring. First, at a
technical level, a preliminary classification exercise, based on a long exercise to survey these SOEs, has
been completed (categorizing SOEs into those to be privatized, liquidated or retained under public
ownership). Second, with regard to the legal and regulatory side, the current legislation (Law on State-
Owned Enterprises of SY1370) has been reviewed: it provides an adequate framework for the liquidation


                                                         9

of SOEs but has no provision for private sector participation in SOEs and does not cover privatization.
Draft amendments and Presidential Decrees have been prepared. Third, analytical work has started on
labor retrenchment issues. The next step will consist in articulating a Privatization Policy to outline the
principles of privatization and lay out a transparent process for carrying out privatization and liquidation.
Overall, taking into account the changes in Government and the technical difficulties in surveying these
SOEs, this progress is positive. Progress beyond this trigger will require additional momentum, notably a
broad ownership at the Cabinet level.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Afghanistan has made good progress on the reform program that forms the basis for PSIB 1, notably on
the core program objective of strengthening public finance management and public administration.
Nevertheless, issues related to security situation, ownership, and implementation capacity, three of the
risks outlined in the Program Document, have constrained additional progress on the reform program.
These issues will also be important determinants of the program sustainability.


First, the security situation has remained uncertain throughout the year and remains volatile. Security in
Kabul has been better, but it was uncertain at the time of the Presidential elections in the fall of 2004,
although the election passed without disruption, and there were incidents in the spring of 2005. Security
outside Kabul has deteriorated, particularly in the south and east where kidnappings, assassinations,
bombings, and significant military actions are common, and tensions followed the drug eradication
campaign in early 2005. In other regions, the security situation is stable or has improved following
implementation of DDR. Security notably impacted on the Government's capacity to implement the
budget.


Second, ownership has varied across reform areas. This results both from the political environment and
the nature of the reforms. First, the Presidential elections were held on October 9, 2004 (parliamentary
elections have been postponed until September 2005). With over 10 million voters registered and 18
candidates running for President, there was considerable political debate and numerous alliances were
formed. The incumbent, President Karzai, won the elections with a first-round majority (55 percent) and
formed a new Cabinet late in December 2004. The new Government needed some time to take ownership
of the reform program. In particular, although most of the expected progress has been achieved early on,
the implementation of the PRR was slowed down by tentative ownership in the new Cabinet, but public
administration reform is now moving forward at both central and sub-national levels. Second, ownership
has varied across reform areas, notably depending on the need for inter-ministerial coordination and the
nature of reforms. Progress in the fiscal and financial management areas has been steady. Progress in the
administrative and civil service reforms has been satisfactory in many areas, but less in pensions.
Progress in procurement has also been lagging due to the initial lack of a clear champion in the
Government.


Third, continuing lack of Government capacity has constrained progress. Limited technical capacity
had been anticipated in the operation's design. This risk has been mitigated by the complementarity
between the reform program supported by PSIB and other IDA projects (in particular the series of
Emergency Public Administration Projects). However, the limited capacity at the Ministry of Justice
(notably translation capacity) has constrained progress with the legal reform agenda.             Also, low
implementation capacity throughout Government has constrained the execution of the development
budget. Progress in the area of pensions has also been constrained by a lack of analytical capacity.




                                                        10

On the positive side, strong leadership, notably from the Minister of Finance, has led to progress with
regard to fiduciary standards, in particular with the gazetting of the PFEM Law and improvements in
ARTF eligibility ratios. Part of the slow implementation of the development budget in fact is the result of
these fiduciary standards, as expenditures are only authorized after a due process of budget allocation.
This outcome also benefited from extraordinary arrangements, such as the Financial Management Agent,
the Procurement Agent, and the External Audit Agent (supported by IDA), as well as the ARTF's
Monitoring Agent (which is providing feedback to the Government on its performance).


6. Bank and Borrower Performance
Overall, the Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank put together a multi-sectoral
team, building on continuing IDA engagement in several areas. Originally scheduled for May 2004, the
operation was delayed to July to provide the Government the time to complete its 2004/05 budget and
introduce the notion of a unified core budget (consisting of all funds flowing through Government's
accounts). The operation was processed quickly, and the design was appropriate to provide the necessary
flexibility in this context. The operation is well integrated in the Bank's strategy and meshes with other
Bank operations (notably in the public administration sector3, as well as in the health and education
sectors). Cooperation with the IMF has been excellent, with close coordination between the two teams.
Advice on implementation issues (notably on fiscal and financial management issues) has been provided
during program implementation, through continuous dialogue, periodic supervision missions, and the
preparation of a Public Finance Management (PFM) Review (combined Public Expenditure Review,
Country Financial Accountability Assessment, and Country Procurement Assessment Review). Intensive
dialogue with the new Government also contributed to facilitate implementation of the reform program.
Security permitting, more frequent visits outside Kabul would enrich the Bank's knowledge on some of
the implementation and capacity constraints.


Borrower performance has been largely satisfactory. Despite some challenges of continuity, ownership,
and capacity (see previous section), a number of important benchmarks were met. The Government has
steadily implemented the IMF's SMP. It has gazetted a number of critical legal reforms, such as the
PFEM law. It has maintained its commitment to the overall reform program and there has not been any
policy reversal. The new MoF leadership has quickly expressed its interest in continuing having the Bank
support its reform agenda through the programmatic series of PSIBs.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series
The experience with PSIB 1, and the upcoming political uncertainties, validates the design (rolling one-
tranche operations with prior actions and a set of triggers which, when met, provide the basis for
proceeding with the next operation) that links fund release with up-front actions and not future promises.
The experience has also validated the viability of development policy financing operations in a post-
conflict setting, providing there is clear government ownership and leadership. Several lessons have been
learned for subsequent operations.


First, future operations will need to support further strengthening of budget processes to ensure timely
budget implementation (notably of the development budget). For this reason, the preparation of a sound
MTFF should now be a priority, in order to increase budget realism and link the budget to the ANDS.
Improvements in budget implementation will also require renewed efforts to develop public
administration's capacity.



3In January 2005, the Public Administration Capacity Building Project was approved by IDA following the first two Emergency
Public Administration Projects. It has four components: Treasury, Internal Audit, Procurement, and External Audit.



                                                                 11

Second, the issue of weak capacity ­ notably to carry out the legal reform agenda ­ should inform the
design of subsequent operations. For the legal agenda, the reform agenda supported by the PSIBs should
focus on a small number of high-priority legal reforms. For the implementation of other reforms, a
mitigation strategy, already adopted for PSIB 1, consists of effectively integrating the PSIB-supported
reform program and the Bank's work program.              The finalization of the PFM review and the
implementation of IDA's public administration projects provide important tools to support the
implementation of the PSIB-supported reform program.


Third, program ownership could be strengthened, notably to ensure continuity in reform implementation.
The Government could be encouraged to enhance consultations, within Government and with key
stakeholders, and communicate information about the reform process and progress towards these
objectives. The reform strategy itself could be more clearly laid out in a number of areas, for instance for
capacity development, public administration, subnational administration, privatization policy, as well as a
number of sector strategies. For these reasons, the preparation of the Afghanistan National Development
Strategy (scheduled to be completed by the end of 2005) is a critical vehicle to enlarge ownership of the
reform program.


Finally, the monitoring framework requires further strengthening. Much progress has been done on the
fiscal and financial side (see Annex 2). The PFEM law provides a good basis for further reporting and the
PFM review, carried out by the Bank, provides a baseline of performance indicators following the "PFM
Strengthened Approach" methodology (cf. www.pefa.org). In addition, subsequent operations should
consider strengthening the monitoring framework in other areas. A stronger monitoring framework,
combining quantitative (the main focus so far) and qualitative indicators, is for instance required to
evaluate the public administration reform program. More generally, statistical strengthening is necessary.
The preparation of the ANDS provides an opportunity to develop a monitoring and evaluation system and
promote an environment where monitoring and evaluation is viewed as a critical input to policy making.
The Statistical Master Plan, developed with support from IDA, provides a roadmap for the development
of a viable statistical system and its implementation should be accelerated.




                                                        12

                                                 Annex 1: Achievements under PSIB 1 (Simplified ICR)
                                                     (In bold: Prior Actions and Triggers for PSIB 1 and 2)

                    Key Achievements and         Reform Program as Described
Reform Area         PSIB 1 Prior Actions         in the Program Document for         Measures Implemented              Comment               Outputs/Outcomes
                  (January 2002 ­July 2004)             PSIB 1 (July 2004)          (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

A. MAINTAINING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY

A.1 Macroeconomic Policy

              · Adoption of SY1383 Budget       · Maintain satisfactory          · Adoption of SY1384 Budget     · Satisfactory progress· Satisfactory
                with satisfactory fiscal          macroeconomic framework,         with satisfactory fiscal                               macroeconomic
                framework                         including progress in raising    framework                                              framework
              · Successful currency reform        domestic revenues              · Increase in domestic
              · Implementation of a satisfactory                                   revenues (26 percent)
                macroeconomic framework,                                         · Satisfactory implementation of
                evidenced by the implementation                                    IMF's SMP
                of an SMP with the IMF

A.2 Budget Process

              · Submission to MoJ of draft of   · Adopt and Implement PFEM       · Gazetting of PFEM Law         · Satisfactory progress· Multi-year,
                PFEM Law with Budget              law                            · Completion of 1383 Mid-Year   · Adoption of Mid-       comprehensive,
                preparation process and         · Preparation of Medium Term       review                          Year Review /          transparent, and result-
                standards of transparency and     Fiscal Framework (MTFF)        · Approval of 1384 Operating      Supplementary          based budget system
                financial reporting             · Use GFS system for budgeting     Budget in advance of fiscal     Budget for 1384 and  · Coordination of external
              · Improvement in Budget             and reporting                    year                            of a MTFF to be        assistance with
                preparation                     · Pilot programmatic budgeting   · Implementation of new Chart     prior actions for      Government's strategy
              · Establishment of national         in one Ministry                  of Accounts (GFS compliant)     PSIB 2                 and Budget
                investment programs             · Clarify budget structure
              · Mandatory evaluation of           (ordinary/development)
                recurrent costs implications of · Strengthen Consultative Groups · Review of Consultative
                Development Budget                                                 Groups completed
              · Formulation of Development
                Budget
              · Creation of Consultative Groups
              · Preparation of mid-year review
                of 1382 Budget




                                                                                13

                      Key Achievements and         Reform Program as Described
Reform Area            PSIB 1 Prior Actions        in the Program Document for          Measures Implemented                Comment            Outputs/Outcomes
                    (January 2002 ­July 2004)            PSIB 1 (July 2004)            (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

A.3 Revenue Policy and Administration

                · Adoption of a tax reform        · Draft and enact tax code and    · Gazetting of tax measures       · Satisfactory      · Increase domestic
                  package (wage withholding;        customs law                                                         implemntation of    revenues and certainty of
                  fixed tax on selected services; · Create Model Offices in 6       · Creation of Large Taxpayer        prior action for    revenue system
                  reduction of corporate tax        Provinces                         Office and approval of PRR        PSIB 1
                  rate; and rent tax)             · Create a Macroeconomic Unit       for Regional Offices
                · Approval of a new customs         in charge of macro and revenue  · Creation of Fiscal Policy Unit
                  tariffs                           forecasts; build its capacity
                · Development of a 5-year plan for
                  customs and tax administration
                · Creation of a Large Taxpayer
                  Office

A.4 Statistical and Data Management

                 · Completion of a Statistical    · Regular collection of CPI price · Collection of CPI price data                        · Availability of data to feed
                   Master Plan                      data including in five cities     including in five cities outside                      into policy making
                                                    outside Kabul                     Kabul
                                                  · Completion of population        · Completion of house listing
                                                    enumeration (Phase 1) of the      for the population enumeration
                                                    census                            (Phase 1) of the census (expect
                                                  · Preparation of the Integrated     for 3 provinces)
                                                    Living Standard Survey and the · Ongoing preparations for the
                                                    Business Enterprise Survey        Integrated Living Standard
                                                                                      Survey and Integrated
                                                                                      Business Enterprise Survey
                                                                                    · Launch of new round of the
                                                                                      National Risk and
                                                                                      Vulnerability Assessment,
                                                                                      now covering both rural and
                                                                                      urban areas

B. STRENGTHENING PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND FISCAL MANAGEMENT

B.1 Government Structure

                · Approval of PRR-level 2 for     · Continue implementation of the · Approval of 15,000 positions · Satisfactory progress · Restructured, downsized
                  3,000 positions                   PRR Program                       under PRR                                             and rationalized Central
                · Enactment of PRR decree         · Establish a Cabinet Secretariat                                                         Government
                · Creation of Program             · Create 5 new Program                                                                  · Strengthened policy
                  Management Unit in one            Management Unit                                                                         design and
                  ministry                                                                                                                  implementation capacity
                                                                                                                                            in ministries




                                                                                   14

                    Key Achievements and           Reform Program as Described
Reform Area          PSIB 1 Prior Actions          in the Program Document for         Measures Implemented               Comment               Outputs/Outcomes
                  (January 2002 ­July 2004)               PSIB 1 (July 2004)          (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

B.2 Personnel Management

Legal         · Adoption of PAR Program           · Continued progress to          · Signature of Presidential     · Satisfactory progress · Updated legislative
framework     · Creation of IARCSC                  improve the civil service        Decree on a Code of Conduct     (Civil Service Law to   framework for Civil
              · Agreement of merit-based            (adopt Civil Service Law and     for government functionaries    be gazetted)            Service in line with
                appointment procedures              Code of Ethics and increase in · Adoption of Civil Service                               modern practice
              · Draft of Civil Service Law for      merit-based appointments for     Law
                Cabine consideration                senior positions)              · Merit-based appointments of
                                                                                     about 80/100 senior civil
                                                                                     servants per month (by
                                                                                     Independent Appointment
                                                                                     Board)
Systems for   · Decentralization of payroll       · (Continued progress to         · Steady implementation of                              · Payroll payments in time,
payroll       · Introduction of Individualized      improve the civil service ­      Verified Payroll Plan as                                with full amount and
                Salary Payments for staff of        progress according to the        evidenced by:                                           adequate controls
                budget entities of ten ministries   Government's Verified          · Registration and issuance of
                in Kabul                            Payroll Plan)                    Afghan Personal Identification
              · Verification of payroll against   · Start using the banking system   Numbers and photo ID cards
                headcount database (ARTF)           to make automatic payroll        to more than 6,000
              · Adoption of verified payroll plan   payments                         government employees in
                                                                                     Kabul
                                                                                   · Initiation of the
                                                                                     implementation of the
                                                                                     Individualized Salary
                                                                                     Payments with mobile teams
                                                                                     making payments to over
                                                                                     24,000 employees in 17 line
                                                                                     ministries and government
                                                                                     agencies in Kabul, including
                                                                                     6,000 receiving payments in
                                                                                     banks (400 directly into
                                                                                     employee bank accounts)
                                                                                   · Development of a payroll
                                                                                     database in 2 ministries and
                                                                                     progressive roll out to other
                                                                                     ministries




                                                                                  15

                  Key Achievements and         Reform Program as Described
Reform Area        PSIB 1 Prior Actions        in the Program Document for          Measures Implemented             Comment              Outputs/Outcomes
                (January 2002 ­July 2004)            PSIB 1 (July 2004)            (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

Human        (· Approval of PRR-level 2 for   · (Continued progress to          · (Approval of 15,000                                · Human resource and pay
resources /    3,000 positions)                 improve the civil service -       positions under PRR)                                 and pension systems
salary      · Design and implementation of      Increase in number of civil     · Stability of un-uniformed                            adequate to recruit, retain
structure /    PRR Program and top-up decree    employees paid under PRR to       central government                                   and motivate skilled civil
pension     · Design a lateral entry program    15,000, maintain increase in      employment (except                                   servants
            · Cap on total public employment    number of un-uniformed            teachers)
               outside education                central government              · Initiation of census of
                                                employees ­ except teachers ­
            · Increase in pensions for public                                     Government employees
                                                below 10,000 compared to
               employees                        end-June 2004 level, and
                                                initiate census of all
                                                government employees)
                                              · Completion of a labor market    · Labor survey completed; pay
                                                survey and preparation pay and    and grading system under
                                                grading reform                    discussion between IARCSC

                                              · Complete training and             and MoF

                                                development needs analysis      · Draft Training Policy paper

                                              · Develop and implement             prepared

                                                Retraining, Reskilling, and
                                                Redeployment Program (RRR)
                                              · Implement lateral entry         · Lateral Entry Program
                                                program                           approved in December 2004

                                              · Preparation of a draft                                        · Slow progress on
                                                Pension Law and proposed        · Data collection for pension   pensions due to
                                                plan of financing                 analysis started              additional analytical
                                              · Preparation of a plan to                                        requirements
                                                modernize pension
                                                administration, including PRR
                                                plan for Pension Administration
                                                Office
Gender                                        · Establish targets for female                                                         · Increased women presence
                                               employment and develop plan                                                             in civil service
                                               to reach them




                                                                               16

                    Key Achievements and           Reform Program as Described
Reform Area          PSIB 1 Prior Actions          in the Program Document for           Measures Implemented               Comment              Outputs/Outcomes
                   (January 2002 ­July 2004)              PSIB 1 (July 2004)            (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

B.3 Strengthening Subnational Administration

               (· Adoption of SY1383 Budget       · Create and implement the          · Pilot PRR reform in         · Moderately            · Improvement of local
                 with provincial allocations        Afghanistan Stabilization           Governor's Office of Balkh    satisfactory progress   governments'
                 above SY1382 allotments, in        Program                             and in 6 districts                                    infrastructure
                 particular for non-salary        · Draft policy to establish         · Draft policy paper on
                 expenditures)                      allocation of functions to levels   Provincial Planning and                             · Strengthening of local
               · Re-establishment of Provincial     of government and to establish      Development Council under                             governments
                 departments by a number of         accountabilities of district        discussion
                 parent ministries (e.g. MRRD)      municipalities
               · Appointment of new Provincial    · Design program system renewal
                 Governors by the President         for municipal budgeting,
                                                    accounting, auditing,
                                                    expenditure control and revenue
                                                    generation, and design capacity
                                                    building program. Start piloting
                                                    in Kabul.

B.4 Fiduciary Standards

Financial      · (Submission to MoJ of draft of   · Continued progress on raising · (Gazetting of PFEM Law)         · Satisfactory progress · Implementation of Budget
control          PFEM Law with requirements         fiduciary standards (reduce       · Improvement in ARTF           (slower progress        with optimized cash
systems and      on financial management)           ARTF ineligibility ratio;           eligibility ratio (20 to 90   initially in the        management and
cash           · Implementation of AFMIS in         initiate rolling-out of AFMIS       percent on O&M                procurement area;       appropriate controls
management       Treasury and computerization of    to Provinces and line               component)                    steady progress in the
                 check issuance                     ministries; gazetting and         · Implementation of AFMIS       recent period)
               · Improvements in reporting of       implementation of PFEM              in two ministries and pilot
                 Provinces                          Law which includes                  in the province of Herat
               · Creation of a "Consolidated        consolidation of all

                 Fund" as mandated by the           Government's accounts into        · Monthly reconciliations
                 Constitution and closing of bank   the Treasury Single Account)
                                                                                        prepared (but with
                 accounts held by line ministries · Ensure monthly reconciliation       unreconciled differences)
               · Government receipt and payment     of cash, revenues, and

                 operations mostly concentrated     expenditures on the Treasury

                 through the bank accounts          and provincial moustufiat

                 controlled by the Treasury and     accounts
                                                                                      · Internal Audit department's
                 provincial moustufiats           · Initiate direct payment to
                                                    vendors from TSA                    PRR plan approved and
                                                  · Implement PRR for the Internal      recruitment initiated

                                                    Audit department in MoF




                                                                                     17

                    Key Achievements and         Reform Program as Described
Reform Area          PSIB 1 Prior Actions        in the Program Document for         Measures Implemented               Comment               Outputs/Outcomes
                  (January 2002 ­July 2004)             PSIB 1 (July 2004)          (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

Financial     · (Submission to MoJ of draft of  · (Continued progress on         · (Gazetting of PFEM law)                               · Adequate financial
reporting       PFEM Law with requirements        raising fiduciary standards ­  · Preparation of monthly                                  management information
                on financial reporting)           adopt and implement PFEM         fiscal reports, released on                             and timely preparation and
              · Draft annual reports on budget    Law: quarterly reports on        MoF's website since March                               release of financial
                execution (MoF)                   budget execution, prepare        2005                                                    accounts
                                                  1382 financial accounts by     · 1382 financial accounts
                                                  September 2004)                  approved by Cabinet in
                                                                                   September 2004
External audit· (Submission to MoJ of draft of  · (Continued progress on         · (Gazetting of PFEM law,                               · Audit of financial
                PFEM Law with requirements        raising fiduciary standards ­    which requires independent                              accounts in line with
                on audit)                         adopt Audit Law, and Audit       audit of financial statements)                          international standards
              · Draft of 1381 audits of IDA's     1382 accounts by September     · Completion of external audit
                grants and ARTF                   2004)                            of most Government
                                                · Implement PRR for the Control    accounts for 1382
                                                  and Audit Office
Procurement   · Completion of draft of          · (Continued progress on         · Submission to Cabinet of                              · Procurement activities in
                Procurement Law and               raising fiduciary standards ­    Procurement Law (September                              line with international
                procurement regulations           adopt Procurement Law and        2005)                                                   standards
              · Creation of a Central             procurement regulations,       · Decision by MoF to create
                Procurement Facilitation Unit     create Public Procurement        Procurement Policy Unit
                                                  Unit)
                                                · Start decentralization of
                                                  procurement function based on
                                                  agreed milestones

C. ENHANCING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

C.1 Health

Basic Package (· Adopt 1383 Budget with         · Expanded coverage of health    · Regular reporting by all      · Satisfactory progress · Progress towards
of Health       higher budget allocation for      services                         service providers (NGOs and                             universal basic health
Services        BPHS)                           · Proper monitoring and            the MoPH) through the new                               coverage
(BPHS)        · Development of an Interim         evaluation of health delivery    Health Management                                     · Reduction in mortality and
                Health Strategy (2002-04)         (completion of a baseline        Information System                                     morbidity rates, especially
              · Initiate process of contracting   evaluation of service delivery · Completion of a baseline                               among women and
                with NGOs to further expand       performance by MoH and           evaluation of service delivery                         children (Millennium
                coverage of BPHS                  NGOs)                            performance by MoH and                                 Development Goals)
                                                                                   NGOs




                                                                                18

                      Key Achievements and          Reform Program as Described
Reform Area            PSIB 1 Prior Actions          in the Program Document for         Measures Implemented             Comment               Outputs/Outcomes
                   (January 2002 ­July 2004)               PSIB 1 (July 2004)           (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

Financial      · Agreement between MOH,            · Audited financial reports                                                             · MOH and MOF have an
management        MOF, and IDA on financial           available for MOH-SM                                                                   evaluated experience with
at MOH            management mechanism for            provinces                                                                              MOH implementation of
                  MOH-SM                           · Baseline evaluation of MOH-                                                             BPHS delivery so that
                                                      SM performance carried out                                                             future policies about the
                                                                                                                                             role of the Government is
                                                                                                                                             based on empirical
                                                                                                                                             evidence

C.2 Education

Primary and    (· Adopt 1383 Budget with            · Initiation of baseline         · Completion of school survey · Satisfactory progress · Progress towards
secondary         higher budget allocation for        assessment of teachers'        · Initiation of Teacher                                 universal primary
education         Ministry of Education)              numbers and qualification        Education Program                                     education, gender parity
               · Reorientation of the role of the  · Development of a teacher        · Creation of Project                                   and completion of primary
                  MOE: policy making, provision       certification program            Management Unit in MoE                                schooling (Millennium
                  of guidelines, contracting out to· Development of MoE's                                                                    Development Goals)
                  the private sector, and             financial management system
                  partnerships with NGOs              and strengthening of MoE's
                                                      capacity

Higher         · Approve Constitution allowing     · Detailed higher education legal · Draft Higher Education Law                          · Increase in enrollment
Education         private higher education           framework to facilitate           prepared                                              ratio in higher education.
                  institutions                       establishment of private higher                                                       · Universities with
                                                     education institutions and to                                                           minimum international
                                                     ensure quality of both public                                                           standard.
                                                     and private higher education                                                          · Increase in public
                                                     institutions is in place                                                                university cost financed
                                                   · Formula based funding is                                                                from fees
                                                     introduced to higher education
                                                     institutions

C.3 Social Protection

Social         (· Adopt 1383 Budget with                                             · Expansion of NSP            · Satisfactory          · Improvements in social
Protection        higher budget allocation for                                                                       implementaton of        protection
                  NSP)                                                                                               prior action for
               · Implementation of NEEP and                                                                          PSIB 1
                  NSP




                                                                                    19

                     Key Achievements and       Reform Program as Described
Reform Area           PSIB 1 Prior Actions      in the Program Document for          Measures Implemented               Comment             Outputs/Outcomes
                   (January 2002 ­July 2004)          PSIB 1 (July 2004)            (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

D. PROMOTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT


D.1 Investment Climate

Regulatory     · Adopt amendments to Income    · Review of all legislations,     · Gazetting of income tax      · Moderately           · Improved business
framework         Tax Law (tax measures in non-  regulations, and procedures       amendments (on tax incentives  satisfactory progress  environment, including
                  tax laws and agreements have   related to investment in order    for investors)                 (related to weak       transparency in tax
                  no effect; tax-holidays are    to simplify and harmonize       · Drafting of revised Foreign    capacity to carry out  payments
                  ended)                         them in line with                 and Domestic Private           the legal reform
               · Preparation of an Investment    international best practice       Investment and Business        agenda)
                  Law                          · Draft Commerce Code               Organization Laws
Services for   · Creation of Afghanistan       · Restructure and pass PRR        · MoC PRR plan prepared                               · Improved registration
private sector    Investment Support Agency      process for the Ministry of     · Creation of Industrial Parks                          procedures
development       (AISA)                         Commerce
                                               · Develop legal framework for
                                                 setting up insurance industry

D.2 Financial Sector Development

Legal and      · Enactment of Banking Law      · Elaboration of internationally  · Gazetting of DAB and         · Satisfactory progress· Implementation of a
regulatory     · Enactment of Central Bank Law   accepted prudential               Banking Laws                                          sound, efficient and
framework                                        regulations for all core sectors· Eight private banks licensed                          competitive legal and
                                                 of banking (license,              and three state-owned                                 regulatory environment
                                                 monitoring and closure)           banks relicensed
                                               · Strengthening of the banking    · Issuance of first set
                                                 supervision function of the       prudential regulations
                                                 Central Bank                    · Training provided to
                                                                                   strengthen supervision
                                                                                   function




                                                                                20

                    Key Achievements and          Reform Program as Described
Reform Area          PSIB 1 Prior Actions         in the Program Document for         Measures Implemented               Comment              Outputs/Outcomes
                  (January 2002 ­July 2004)             PSIB 1 (July 2004)           (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

Central Bank  · Approval of PPR program at       · Installation of technical       · Technical hardware and                              · Creation of a modern
modernization   DAB                                hardware and software             software installed                                    Central Bank
              · Connection of key central bank     equipment in the Central
                branches                           Bank and at least 6 regional
                                                   Central Bank branches
                                                 · Implementation and              · Completion of PRR
                                                   completion of the PPR             implementation
                                                   program at DAB
                                                 · Preparation of externally       · External audit of 2003/04
                                                   audited financial statements      statements published
                                                   in accordance with
                                                   international accounting
                                                   standards
                                                 · Steady reduction in the
                                                   Central Bank's commercial       · Cessation of DAB
                                                   banking functions where           headquarter-based
                                                   private banks have                commercial banking
                                                   demonstrated capacity to          activities
                                                   develop these functions
Commercial    · Licensing of new commercial      · Completion of re-licensing of   · (Three state-owned banks                            · Development of efficient
banking         banks                              commercial banks                 relicensed)                                            financial sector
              · All state-owned banks submit re- · Initiation of a resolution for  · Preparatory work for the
                licensing application to DAB       the banks that have not been     restructuring of the 3 state-
                                                   re-licensed                      owned banks that have not
                                                                                    been relicensed

D.3 State-Owned Enterprises Restructuring

                                                 · Continued implementation of     · Census and classification of · Satisfactory progress· Improved efficiency of
                                                   a plan for SOE restructuring      all SOEs prepared by MoF       on three building      SOEs
                                                 · Establish basic institutional   · Review of legal issues for     blocks of SOE reform
                                                   capacity for privatization        SOE restructuring and
                                                 · Prepare and release financial     drafting of appropriate
                                                   accounts for main SOEs            amendments
                                                                                   · Analytical work for labor
                                                                                     retrenchment issues

D.4 Trade Reform

Trade Regime · Signature of bilateral and multi- · Pass new customs code           · Cabinet approval of new                             · Development of
                lateral trade agreements         · Harmonize and rationalize        Customs Code                                           international trade
              · Pass new tariff code               trade, transport, and transit,                                                        · Increase domestic
                                                   documents, procedures                                                                   revenues




                                                                                  21

                    Key Achievements and       Reform Program as Described
Reform Area          PSIB 1 Prior Actions      in the Program Document for              Measures Implemented         Comment       Outputs/Outcomes
                  (January 2002 ­July 2004)           PSIB 1 (July 2004)              (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

Role of                                       · Clarify institutional roles of key · MoC PRR plan prepared                    · Increase in the efficiency
Ministries                                      stakeholder ministries,            · Initiation of ASYCUDA                      of the customs clearance
                                                eradication of functional            implementation                             process
                                                fragmentation and overlapping
                                              · Restructure and pass PRR
                                                process for the Ministry of
                                                Commerce
                                              · Reform and restructure the
                                                `Transport Special Sector' of
                                                the Ministry of Transport

D.5 Rural Development

Agriculture                                   · Start resolution of fertilizer and                                            · Limit direct interventions
policy                                          seed companies and Agriculture                                                  of the Government and
                                                Development Bank                                                                improve regulatory
                                              · Create PMU for natural                                                          framework
                                                resource management
Land                                         · Pilot a systematic adjudication     · Creation of Land Commission              · Lessen conflict over land
                                               of land rights in three sites       · Formation of inter-ministry
                                             · Design new physical space for         working group to formulate
                                               dealing with the public and for       plan for appropriate land-
                                               preparing and storing deeds           titling system and land
                                               within the Supreme Court in           database
                                               Kabul.
                                             · Computerize land records in
                                               Kabul's Mazkhan
                                             · Initiate design of more inclusive
                                               system of land administration
                                             · Initiate policy discussion for
                                               revision of existing legislation

D.6 Power Sector Development

              · Adoption of a Reform Road Map · Legal arrangements set up to       · Cabinet approval of the                  · Increase access to
              · Submission to Cabinet of        enable the commercial                Electricity Policy Statement               electricity
                 Electric Policy Statement      operation of the Kabul               which defines and separates
                                                Distribution Unit                    the respective roles of the
                                              · Key positions in Kabul               Ministry of Energy and Water
                                                Distribution Unit has been           and the power utility
                                                appointed with professionals       · Reduction in tariff rates in
                                                retained under the IDA Power        Herat
                                                Utility Investment and TA
                                                project
                                              · Cost recovery improves to 55%

                                                                                  22

                    Key Achievements and           Reform Program as Described
Reform Area          PSIB 1 Prior Actions          in the Program Document for          Measures Implemented         Comment      Outputs/Outcomes
                  (January 2002 ­July 2004)               PSIB 1 (July 2004)           (July 2004 ­ August 2005)

D.7 Oil, Gas and Mining

Oil and Gas    · Draft of oil and gas legislation · Adoption of petroleum law
sector                                            · Initiation of reform of Ministry                                          · Increased private

                                                    of Mines and Industry                                                       investments in oil and gas

Mining sector  · Draft of mining law              · Adoption of Mining Law           · Cabinet approval of Mining             · Increased private
                                                  · Implementation of mineral          Law                                      investment in mining
                                                    rights title system by cadastre
                                                    office




                                                                                    23

                                                                    Annex 2: Performance Indicators

              Indicator                            Current Value                          Target Value                      Actual Value             Medium-Term
                                               (at PSIB 1 approval)                  (at PSIB 2 approval)                  (August 2005)                Outcome
Public Finance Management Output
Composition of budget expenditures     Wage: 89%                                Wage: 90-110%                       Wage: 91                       Satisfactory budget
out-turn compared to original budget   Non salary: 85%                          Non salary: 80-110%                 Goods and services: 86         implementation
(% budget expenditures in USD,         By function: civil = 81%                 By function: civil and education:
including only ordinary budget)             Education = 58%                     80-110%
Actual revenues (% budget revenues     On target                                >90%                                83                             Increased domestic
in USD)                                                                                                                                            revenues
Comprehensiveness and Transparency of Public Finance Management
Release of final accounts              Final account prepared, not released     Final account prepared for 2003/04  Approved by Cabinet in         Timely preparation
                                                                                by September 2004 (PFEM law)        September 2004                 and release of
Release of fiscal reports              Mid-year prepared for 2003/04, with      Quarterly reports prepared for      Budget Department prepared     financial accounts
                                       limited details                          2004/05, (PFEM law)                 report in October 2004         and budget reports
                                                                                                                    Monthly reports by Treasury
                                                                                                                    since March 2005 (on
                                                                                                                    www.af)
Information in budget document         Only basic schedules in 2004/05 budget   Detailed information in budget      Detailed information by
                                       (by Ministry and line item)              document and mid-year review        ministry and program
                                       No information on SOEs                   (PFEM law)                          No information on SOEs,
                                       No information on sub-national                                               municipalities, provinces
                                       governments
Classification of revenues and         Ordinary budget classified by Ministry   Classification consistent with GFS  New Chart of Accounts (GFS
expenditures                           and line item; revenue and expenditure   recommendations (PFEM law)          compliant, on cash basis)
                                       economic classification not in line with                                     implemented since March
                                       Government Finance Statistics (GFS)                                          2005
Disclosure of budget documents,        Budget and mid-year review publicly      Budget document, mid-year           Accounts and audits
fiscal reports, external audit reports available                                review, external audit released     distributed to Cabinet but not
                                                                                (PFEM law)                          published
Budget Formulation
Multi-year perspective                 Development budget is a three-year       Develop a multi-year fiscal         Medium-term fiscal             Multi year,
                                       plan; ordinary budget has no multi-year  framework for the ordinary budget   framework under preparation    comprehensive,
                                       perspective                              (PFEM law)                                                         transparent, and
Presence of costing for new policy     Generally the case, but exceptions       All policy initiative are presented Generally the case, but still  result-based system
initiative before adoption             (such as decision on pensions)           to Cabinet with costs               issues
Quality of coordination process        Some improvements (project in            Clear linkages between              Limited linkages
between recurrent and investment       development budget have an estimate      development budget and ordinary
expenditures                           of recurrent cost impact), but largely   budget
                                       disconnected

                                                                                    24

              Indicator                           Current Value                         Target Value                      Actual Value              Medium-Term
                                               (at PSIB 1 approval)                 (at PSIB 2 approval)                 (August 2005)                  Outcome
Budget Execution

Adequate forecast and monitoring of   Quarterly targets agreed with IMF for   Quarterly review of performance     Review driven by IMF            Increased domestic
revenues                              the SMP                                                                     program reviews                 revenues and
                                                                                                                                                  certainty of revenue
                                                                                                                                                  system
Cash constraint so that spending      No cash-flow projection; issues for     Quarterly allotments issued to      - updated monthly cash          Implementation of
ministries are able to incur          non-salary expenditures in Provinces    secondary budget units before       projections                     budget with
expenditure commitment in                                                     beginning of each quarter           - allotments issued within 10   optimized cash
accordance with budget                                                                                            days of beginning of quarter    management and
Integration of Provinces and line     Time to receive all Provincial reports  Time to receive all Provincial      86% of reports received within  appropriate controls
ministries in Treasury system         and process them to AFMIS: 1 month      reports and process them to         10 days in early 1384
                                                                              AFMIS: less than two weeks
                                      AFMIS only in Treasury                  AFMIS rollout to line ministries
                                                                              and Provinces initiated
Frequency of bank reconciliation      Initiation of daily reconciliation for  Daily reconciliation of TSA         - Daily TSA reconciliation
                                      Treasury Account                        balance with inflows and outflows   - monthly reconciliation, but
                                      Monthly for Provincial Accounts         Monthly for all Provincial accounts differences (provinces)
                                                                              No account opened for line          - Line ministries' accounts
                                                                              ministries                          only for benefits (e.g.
                                                                                                                  pensions) and security services
Effectiveness of internal control and No adequate internal audit function     Reform internal audit department    PRR approved and recruitment
internal audit                                                                (PRR process: level 2 completed)    started
Effectiveness of payroll controls     Stable civil employment (with the       Stable civil employment (with the   - Employment stable with        Reduce payment
                                      exception of teachers)                  exception of teachers)              growth only for teachers        delays and control
                                      Individual Salary Payments initiated in Individual Salary Payments in all   - Individualized Salary         legitimacy of civil
                                      several Ministries in Kabul             Ministries in Kabul                 Payments in 17 ministries in    service
                                                                                                                  Kabul
Effectiveness of procurement system   ARTF/MA measure: about 28% of           ARTF/MA measure: less than 20%      16% of monitored                Procurement
(measured through ARTF's              selected expenditures ineligible for    of selected expenditures ineligible expenditures ineligible for     activities in line with
Monitoring Agent)                     procurement issues                      for procurement issues              procurement reasons in          international
                                                                                                                  2004/05                         standards
External Audit
Timely release of external audit      Released only for ARTF and World        Audit of 2003/04 accounts released  CAO audit prepared in           Audit of financial
reports                               Bank grant agreements                   by December 2004 (PFEM law)         December 2004 for most          accounts in line with
                                                                              Mid-term audit of 2004/05 budget    Government's accounts, not      international
                                                                              execution                           released                        standards
Government response to audit report   -                                       Action plan on 2003/04 audit        MoF response sent to CAO in
                                                                              released; implementation of action  March 2005
                                                                              plan started (PFEM law)


                                                                                  25

