Page  1
 
 
28996 
Project Information Document (PID) 
 
 
Project Name
  
 
AFGHANISTAN - Programmatic Structural Adjustment 
Credit I 
Region
 
   South 
Asia 
Regional 
Office 
Sector
 
   Central 
Government 
Administration 
(100%) 
Theme
 
   Macroeconomic 
Management 
(P) 
 
 
 
 
Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement (P) 
Project
 
   P078618 
Borrower(s)
 
 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
Implementing Agency (ies)
 
Ministry of Finance 
    Address: 
Pashtonistan 
Watt 
  Kabul, Afghanistan 
 
 
 
 
Contact Person:  Mr. Abdul Salam Rahimy (Deputy Minister) 
 
 
 
 
Tel: 93 2102838       Email: salam.rahimi@afghanistangov.org  
Environment Category
 U 
Date PID Prepared
 
 
April 27, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Country background.
  Afghanistan is one of the world’s poorest countries.  After two decades of 
conflict, significant progress has been made to secure peace and start the reconstruction of the 
country.  Growth has reached 30 percent in 2002 and 23 percent in 2003.  About 2.5 million 
Afghans have returned to their home country.  More than 4 million children are now back to 
school.  The Government has initiated important structural reforms, including a successful 
currency reform, and is making progress to better manage public finance.  A new Constitution has 
been approved in January 2004.  A recent international conference held in March 2004 in Berlin 
confirmed international support to the Afghan Government. 
 
Numerous challenges remain.  Security is an issue in many parts of the country.  The drug 
economy remains very strong.  The Government’s challenge consists in extending its reform 
program beyond Kabul and to implement reforms that, beyond the initial steps of state building, 
will generate broad based growth. 
 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.
  The Government laid out its reform strategy in the 
National 
Development Framework 
in April 2002 and reaffirmed it in the 
Securing Afghanistan’s Future
 
report presented at the Berlin Conference.  To implement its strategy, the Government needs 
multi-year financial support that is not linked to specific projects, but that can support its entire 
reform program.  Adjustment lending is proposed, at the request of the Government, to support 
the Government’s entire budget including recurrent costs, as well as development projects that are 
viewed as a priority, yet not fully financed by donors, including small-size rehabilitation projects, 
projects of operations an maintenance, or projects located in insecure areas.  
 
2. Proposed Objective 
 
Page  2
 
 
The overall objective of these operations is to provide rolling support to the Government’s 
objective to deepen, broaden and sustain the reforms underway in the areas of public 
administration and fiscal management. The Credit also supports the implementation of reforms 
that lead to a more efficient allocation of fiscal resources in the areas of human development 
(health, basic education and social protection) and private sector development (investment 
climate, financial sector, and state-owned enterprises).   
 
The Credits provide potential benefits which will all contribute to poverty reduction.  First, they 
strengthen public administration and fiscal management, and support reforms to improve 
fiduciary standards.  This will reduce the implementation risks of all projects including these 
Credits, and is likely to translate into higher levels of donors’ assistance.  Second, they provide 
resources to the central Government to deepen its reform program including service delivery 
beyond Kabul.  This will benefit the whole population including the poor.  Third, they also 
support the implementation of reforms leading to a more efficient allocation of fiscal resources in 
the areas of human development and private sector development, which will reduce poverty.
  
 
 
3.  Preliminary Description
 
 
The Credit of SDRxx million (US$80 million equivalent) is the first of a series of operations 
aimed at supporting the implementation of the Government of Afghanistan’s (GoA) medium-term 
development strategy within the context of a secure environment and a satisfactory 
macroeconomic framework.  The operations take the form of Programmatic Structural 
Adjustment Credits of which the current Credit (PSAC I) is the first.  They will provide rolling 
support to the Government’s development strategy with each operation specifying a set of 
triggers which, when met, provide the basis for proceeding with the next operation. 
 
The overall objective of these operations is to provide rolling support to the Government’s 
objective to deepen, broaden and sustain the reforms underway in the areas of public 
administration and fiscal management.  PSAC I builds on the reforms initiated under IDA’s 
Emergency Public Administration Projects (EPAP) to improve GoA’s own fiduciary standards.  
Deepening and broadening these reforms is critical for poverty reduction assistance to be 
effective.  The Credit supports on-going reforms to strengthen the budget process, increase the 
administrative capacity of line ministries and sub-national governments, develop revenue policy 
and administration, and improve civil service effectiveness.  The Credit also supports the 
implementation of reforms that lead to a more efficient allocation of fiscal resources in the areas 
of human development (health, basic education and social protection) and private sector 
development (investment climate, financial sector, and state-owned enterprises).  More 
comprehensive, thematic reforms in human and private sector development will require support 
through other instruments, including sectoral operations and TA. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies 
 
The proposed Credit supports a broad spectrum of economy-wide policies and institutions.  For 
the purpose of Operational Directive 8.60, environmental and social assessments are not required 
and the Credit has been placed in category U.  During implementation, the proposed Credit will 
follow the Social and Environmental Safeguards Framework applied to other IDA-financed 
projects.  For that purpose, IDA has developed a Capacity Assessment and Building for Social 
and Environmental Management program, which the MoF and other implementing ministries will 
be invited to attend. 
 
5.  Financing  
Page  3
 
 
 
The IDA Credit’s amount is SDRxx million (US$80 million equivalent). 
 
Page  4
 
 
6.  Contact Point:
 
 
Task Team Leaders:  
Philippe Auffret 
   The 
World 
Bank 
Group 
   1818 
H 
Street, 
N.W. 
MSN MC10-1004 
   Washington, 
D.C. 
20433 
   Telephone: 
202-473-7174 
   Facsimile: 
 
202-522-0356 
   Email:pauffret@worldbank.org 
 
 
   
Stéphane Guimbert 
   The 
World 
Bank 
Group 
   1818 
H 
Street, 
N.W. 
MSN MC10-1004 
   Washington, 
D.C. 
20433 
   Telephone: 
202-458-9030 
   Facsimile: 
 
202-522-0356 
   Email:sguimbert@worldbank.org  
 
