Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13682
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2751-AR)
NOVEMBER 4, 1994
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso
EXCHANGE RATE
P$1  =    US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EdF          -     Electricite de France
ENEL         -     Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Electrica
1DB          -     Inter-American Development Bank
ERR          -     Economic Rate of Return
SE           -     Secretariat of Energy
SEGBA        -     Servicos E1lctricos del Gran Buenos Aires



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 4,. 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Argentina
Power Engineering Project (Loan 2751-AR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Argentina - Power Engineering Project
(Loan 2751-AR). The PCR was prepared by the Latin America & the Caribbean Regional Office. The
Borrower contributed Part II of the PCR.
The project objective was to assist the Government in implementing measures to improve
the efficiency of electricity distribution by providing the utilities with modern methodologies and
supporting equipment for planning and design of the distribution system.
The objective was fully met by successfully carrying out: (a) a set of studies on sectoral
matters (reorganization of distribution systems, regulation of concessions, procurement, and uniform
system of accounts), quality of services (reliability, customer services, customer attitudes), engineering
planning (methodologies for least-cost expansion and rehabilitation, loss reductions) and operational
planning (reporting, accounting and budget control, procurement, inventory and warehouse management);
(b) a metering program (analysis of load curve, design of tariffs, demand side management studies); and
(c) a training program (fellowships, on-the-job training and expatriate trainers). Given the high cost of
distribution, the focus on efficiency was highly relevant and proved essential at project completion when
the privatization of distribution companies began.
The project cost of US$21.5 million (13% higher than estimated at appraisal) was
financed by the US$14.0 million Bank loan and US$7.5 million contributed by the Government and
participating utilities. The loan was fully disbursed in June 1993, one year behind schedule.
The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory and its institutional development impact
as substantial. Since the enhanced skill base created by the project and its supporting modern tools
remain in the utilities being now privatized, the sustainability of the project benefits is rated as likely.
The PCR contains an excellent account of the project implementation and results. No
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2751-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........ ......    .............   ii
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE
BANK   ....................................   1
Project Identity  ...............................  1
Background   ..........   .              .......................   1
Project Objective and Description  ....................   3
Project Origins and Implementation  ...................   4
Project Results   ...............................   7
Meeting Project Objectives ....................   7
Financial Performance   ......................   8
Project Impact  ...........................   8
Project Sustainability  .......................   8
Lessons Learned  ..........................   9
Borrower Performance  ......................   9
Relations with the Borrower ...................  10
Consultants Services ........................  11
Project Documentation and Data  ................ 11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE  ...............................  12
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA   ......................... 15
Related Bank Loans  ............................  15
Project Timetable ..............................  16
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ...                 ........  16
Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Category  ............... 17
Planned And Actual Completion Dates of Components  ...                ....  17
Project Cost and Financing  ........................  18
Status of Covenants and Conditions  ...................  19
Staff Inputs .................................. 20
Mission Data ................................ 20
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thder
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- j -
PROJECT COMPILETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERNG PROJECT
(LOAN 2751-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power
Engineering Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2751-AR in the amount of
US$14.0 million equivalent was approved on September 1986. The Borrower
was represented by the Secretariat of Energy (SE) within the Ministry of Public
Works and Services. The Loan was closed in June 1993, one year behind
schedule. It was fully disbursed with the last disbursement in June 1993.
Parts I and mII of the PCR were prepared by the Infrastructure and
Energy Division, Country Department IV, of Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office and are based, inter alia, on the combined President's/Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the World Bank (Bank) and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda. Part II of the report was prepared by the Borrower and is
a translation of a letter covering the SE's review of the project, dated June 10,
1994.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2751-AR)
EVALUATION SUIMMRY
Project Objectives
1.    The objective of the project was to assist the Government in
implementing measures to improve the conditions of electricity distribution in
the country by providing the beneficiaries with modern methodologies and
supporting equipment to improve their distribution planning and design (para.
3.1).
hnplementation Experience
2.   The scheduled completion date for the project was June 30, 1992.
However, the actual completion date was June 30, 1993, one year behind
schedule. The project was essentially completed before the originally agreed
date, but the actual completion date was extended to allow acquisition of special
equipment needed to complete a survey (para. 4.2).
Project Results
3.    The objectives of the project were met. The project made an important
contribution to the power sector by assisting the Government in identifying and
addressing some key organizational, functional and technical problems which
impeded the coordinated and efficient development of distribution facilities.
Another project achievement was that it provided the most important distribution
utilities in the country with modern equipment, computer hardware and
software, and methodologies to improve their planning and design capabilities
(para. 5.1).
4.   In addition, other non-participating utilities benefited from this project,
since the results of the studies and other knowledge developed were transferred
to them. Also, the studies provided the Government with a sound source of
information for the privatization of Servicos EJctricos del Gran Buenos Aires
(SEGBA) (para. 5.4 & 5.14).



Susainability
5.    This project assisted in the training of over 150 people in the different
utilities, and equipped the participants with technologies and know-how that the
sector was lacking. Further, the project provided the basis for systematically
updated sector expansion plans, currently being implemented. The project also
slowed, and in several cases reversed, the technical deterioration of the
provincial utilities, creating better conditions for a successful privatization
process (pan. 5.7).
Lessons Learned
6.    At appraisal the Bank correctly identified that difficulties in coordination
between the SE and the provincial utilities could jeopardize the success of the
project. To deal with this situation, the Bank requested as a condition of
effectiveness a commitment from the provincial utilities covering their
obligations for the project implementation. If this condition had not been set in
advance, it would have been very difficult, perhaps impossible, for the SE to
make the utilities follow any instructions, since these utilities are autonomous.
It is also important to highlight the important role that the team work had in the
successful implementation of this project. The project participants went beyond
merely fulfilling a loan condition and worked towards making the project a
success (para. 5.10).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2751-AR)
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK
1.    Prqject Identity
ProeLt Name       Power Engineering Project
Loan Number       2751-AR
RVP Uni           Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
County            Argentina
Secto             Energy
*Subsector        Electric Power
2.    Background
2.1   At the time that this project was identified, the World Bank's lending
strategy in Argentina was directed toward helping the country achieve sustained
medium-term growth, reduce its debt-to-export ratio, and attain a modest
increase in per capita consumption. The lending program was focused upon:
(a) technical assistance to strengthen the Government's analytical and
administrative ability to design and implement economic reform programs; (b)
financial assistance to support the process of structural reform and growth; and
(c) playing a catalytic role in increasing external resource flows. Within this
context, one of the Bank's lending priorities was energy development. In the
area of oil and gas development, the objective was: to support the Government
in rationalizing the scope of private sector development; to clarify the roles of
public and private enterprises with a view to enhancing the efficiency of
resource use; and to establish financing mechanisms to reduce demands on the
budget, expand production and reserves, and substitute relatively abundant
natwral gas for liquid fuels. With respect to electrical power, the objective was
to ensure adequate and reliable power supply, minimize costs by reducing
the levels of energy loss, restore satisfactory self-financing capacity,
overcome the uneven access to electricity service while improving its quality,
and improve sector organization and institutional relationships.



- 2 -
2.2 Argentina's energy resources are diverse and abundant. However, for
many years the country's policies did not foster efficient use of these resources.
For example, during the period 1973-83, the country's total energy consumption
grew 26% while GDP grew 3%. The main cause for this problem was
attributed to distorted pricing policies, since for some time the Government
allowed prices of oil derivatives and electricity to decrease in real terms.
Further, the structures of electricity tariffs did not promote conservation because
the tariffs were affected by regional preferences and cross-subsidization.
2.3   To have a better understanding of the sector problems it is important to
know that the Federal Government and the Provincial Governments owned all
electrical generation, transmission and distribution facilities in Argentina.
However, the sector's organization was fragmented.   Generation and
transmission expansion was based on centralized planning, financed with taxes
on fuels and electricity bills, and executed by federally owned utilities. The
decisions, however, were not always based on minimum cost solutions.
Moreover, financing was seldom guaranteed for projects prior to implementation
and execution capacity was uneven. In general, the financial situation of the
federal utilities was weak because the energy taxes collected to help the
expansion could not make up for the financial gaps caused by insufficient tariffs.
Malaing matters worse, responsibilities for policies and regulations of
distribution were divided among several federal and provincial entities. On the
other hand, the provinces' constitutional autonomy enabled them to grant
concessions for distribution services. The provinces could set the financial rules
and tariffs for the operation of the facilities, without the obligation to maintain
specific standards of service or providing data to the Government.
2.4   The Government was aware of the sector problems and was seeking to
improve resource allocation within the sector through optimization of the
sector's expansion programs and improved coordination of operations. This
project was the first step towards the Government's broad-based effort to
improve the efficiency of Argentina's regional power distribution system.
This was to be accomplished by strengthening coordination between the national
and the provincial utilities and increasing the efficiency of the latter. The
efforts to be pursued by the Government included:
(a)   countrywide regulations which would assure even coverage and
quality of service;
(b)   improved planning methods and tools to optimize allocation of
resources; and



- 3 -
(c)   standardization of methods and systems for operating the
networks to promote efficiency in the utilities' operations as well
as system coordination and integration.
2.5   This project, although small, represented a significant expansion in the
Bank's involvement in the institutional development of the power sector and
contributed to a more active dialogue among the Bank, the Government and the
provincial utilities regarding specific policy reforms needed to improve the
sector.
3.    Project Objective and Description
3.1   The main objective of the Power Engineering Project was to assist the
Government in implementing measures to improve electricity distribution in the
country by providing the beneficiaries with modern methodologies and
supporting equipment to improve their distribution planning and design
capability.
3.2   The project consisted of:
(a)   four distribution studies oriented towards:
(i)  improving the sector organization and coordination for
distribution of electricity;
(ii) evaluating the quality and reliability of electricity service
and the origin and level of losses;
(iii) designing and implementing methodologies for least-cost
planning and defining standards for materials and
equipment; and
(iv)  recommending procedures to  improve the utilities
operational planning, budgeting and inventory control.
(b)   a metering program designed to improve data for studies under
(a) above and to improve system expansion planning, rate design
and billing;
(c)   a training program which included fellowships, courses and
arrangements with foreign distribution companies for on-the-job-
training.



- 4 -
4.    Project Origins and Implementation
4.1   This project evolved from discussions with the Argentine authorities
regarding the high level of investments required for expanding distribution
networks and the need to improve the quality and efficiency of distribution
services from a national perspective. Appraisal of the project took place in
December 1985, negotiations in July 1986, and loan signature in June 1987.
The delay in loan signature was mainly due to bureaucratic inefficiency,
especially with respect to procedures for loan approval by the Government and
by the interest of the Government in only signing the loan after agreements had
been formally reached with all the provinces participating in the project. The
latter process started only after the Bank approved the loan in September 1986.
4.2   Although this loan was signed in June 1987, its execution started in
March 1987 with the structuring of seven working groups composed of
professionals seconded by the participating utilities and several external
consultants. At the beginning the project had a slow pace due to the time spent
bringing all the professionals seconded by the utilities together, as well as
preparing and agreeing on detailed terms of references for the different groups.
By the end of September 1987, most of the consultants had been contracted and
the seconded staff was in place. The original closing date of this loan was June
30, 1992, however, the closing date was extended one year. This delay was
necessary to allow for the acquisition of specific equipment to carry out the load
curve survey for residential customers. This survey was very important and was
to be conducted at a later date by the participating utilities. The data obtained
from this residential survey, in addition to the industrial customer survey carried
out by the project, would improve the knowledge of the system characteristics
and thus the quality of planning and design of the network; therefore it was
imperative for the utilities to obtain this equipment. As Table 5, Part HI shows,
there were considerable delays in the completion of the different project
components. The delays in most of the cases were due to the organizational
difficulties at the project start, the complexity of the studies that had to be
carried out, and procurement of computer hardware/software and other
equipment. In retrospect, the target dates proved to be too optimistic.
4.3 The execution of the project was the responsibility of the Ministry of
Public Works and Services, through the SE. An ad hoc Executing Unit was
created in the SE to implement the project with technical assistance and
participation of staff from the power utilities and with external support from
consultants. This approach was considered desirable in order to obtain the
direct involvement of the utilities in the studies and their successful
implementation. The national utilities participating in the project were SEGBA
and AyE, and the provincial utilities were ESEBA, formerly DEBA (Province



- 5 -
of Buenos Aires), EPEC (C6rdoba), DPESF (Santa Fe) and EMSE (Mendoza)
which are the largest distribution utilities.
4.4   In order to ensure adequate participation and collaboration of the
participating utilities, the SE was requested to enter into agreements (acceptable
to the Bank) with the participating utilities, which spelled out their
responsibilities and obligations regarding the foUowing issues: (a) staffing of
the Executing Unit; (b) transfer of metering equipment; (c) training program;
(d) information dissemination; and (e) results of the studies. The execution of
these agreements was a condition of effectiveness for the project.
4.5   The Distribution Studies. The first project component consisted of four
sets of distribution studies. The first set of studies was on sectoral matters,
and it analyzed the organization and regulations governing the distribution
utilities and made recommendations for improving their efficiency. This set of
studies covered: (a) the organization of distribution services and planning and
possible improvements in the use of resources; (b) the existing and required
regulations governing concessions; (c) the methods for acquiring and processing
information and current reporting procedures; and (d) the accounting procedures
and the design of a uniform system of accounts that could be used by the entire
sector as the basis for budgeting, planning, statistics, financial control and
forecasts.
4.6   The second set of studies, quality of service, assessed the impact of
investment restrictions on the system's reliability, the level and origin of losses,
and recommended goals for improving distributions reliability. This set of
studies covered: (a) past and current quality of service and the impact of
investment restrictions on the quality of service; (b) customer attitudes regarding
the quality and cost of services and their willingness to pay; (c) goals for quality
of service at the distribution level and the impact of different reliability levels;
and (d) recommendations for improving the quality of service.
4.7   The third group of studies, engineering planning, designed and
implemented methodologies for least-cost planning and standards for materials
and equipment as well as prepared a five year rehabilitation, expansion and loss
reduction plan for the provincial utilities. This set of studies covered: (a) the
operational conditions of major distribution facilities; (b) current methodologies
for distribution planning and recommendations for resource alocation; (c) a
global medium-term plan for rehabilitation and expansion of networks; (d)
technical standards for equipment and materials, and supply capacity of the
national industry; (e) origin and levels of distribution losses and action plans for
reduction; and (f) identification of areas suitable for applying the
recommendations of the study and the design of a pilot program.



- 6 -
4.8   The final set of studies, operational planning, covered:   (a)
development and implementation of procedures for short-term planning of
works; (b) reporting, accounting and budget control; (c) programming and
purchasing equipment and materials; (d) inventory control and stores
management; and (e) stores management training needs.
4.9   The Metering Program.  The second project component was the
metering program which dealt with the inaccuracy of data on the consumption
patterns for the various classes of consumers and the lack of reliable
measurements of losses on the distribution systems, which in turn presented
constraints in improving the conditions of distribution systems in the country.
The objectives of this program were:
(a)   to prepare a data base showing consumer demand and distribution
systems load characteristics for the purpose of improving the
methods used in planning distribution networks;
(b)   to develop rational tariff policies and advance rate designs (time-
of-day tariffs) using the data base developed in (a) above;
(c)   to acquire metering equipment to improve billing and metering
procedures; and
(d)   to use the metering equipment to design and carry out programs
for direct and indirect load control.
4. 10 The third project component was a training program. The objective of
the program was to help the SE and the utilities in ensuring that the project had
adequate support from  qualified staff.  This training program  included
fellowships for professionals from the utilities to study abroad, for the
contracting of foreign experts to conduct training in Argentina, and for foreign
distribution utilities to provide on-the-job-training.
4.11 Project Cost. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
US$21.5 million, of which US$14.0 million was to be financed by the Bank.
The US$14.0 million were intended to finance all the foreign exchange costs.
The local costs would be financed by the Government and participating utilities.
The actual cost of the project was US$24.3 million (Table 6, Part D). The
difference in the projected and actual costs was in large part due to higher
subsistence expenses for the participating utilities' staff, due both to the higher
number of staff and the extended duration of their stay in Buenos Aires. The
results of the studies as well as the equipment purchases were transferred to the
participating utilities as a contribution of the Government to the sector.



- 7 -
4.12 Disbursements. The loan's estimated and actual disbursements (Table
3, Part  ) reflect that at the beginning the project had a slow start, yet after the
third year, the disbursements followed closely the profile projected during
project appraisal. The original closing date was June 30, 1992, however, the
project was extended until June 30, 1993 (para. 4.2). The last disbursement
was on June 1, 1993.
5.    Project Results
5.1   Meeting Project Objectives. All the project objectives were met. This
project made an important contribution to the power sector by assisting the
Government in identifying and addressing key organizational, functional and
technical problems which impeded the coordinated and efficient development of
distribution facilities. The completion of the different studies provided the
Government and the utilities with a wealth of knowledge on the sector such as:
information on the quality of service, the operational conditions of the major
distribution facilities, homogenization of technical standards, as well as detailed
procedures and other data very useful for budgeting, planning, statistics,
financial control, etc. As a consequence of this project, the Borrower was able
to improve the use and development of distribution facilities in the power sector.
Another project achievement was that it provided the most important distribution
utilities in the country with modem equipment, computer hardware and
software, and state-of-the-art methodologies to improve their planning and
design capabilities.
5.2   One example of an important development achieved by the project was
the improvement of the software PRAO, created by Electriciti de France (EdF),
the project's main foreign consultant, in order to deal with the expansion of
aerial distribution systems. It became a very powerful interactive tool for
system  expansion studies and decision-making.  This product has been
transferred to the non-participating utilities which have been using it, among
other classical applications, for studying the compensation of long feeders in
rural systems.
5.3   With the help of the project, the SE was able to incorporate two
powerful computing tools for the optimum dispatch of the national generation
system. While this development was not among the initial project objectives,
given the extremely difficult supply situation in 1988, the Bank agreed with the
request of the SE to use project resources for developing the computer
programs, which proved very useful in helping to minimize the generation
curtailments that occurred in 1988 and 1989.



- 8 -
5.4   All aspects contemplated in the project studies and activities (paras. 4.5-
4.10) were carried out with a high degree of quality. In addition, other non-
participating utilities benefited from this project, since the results of the studies
and other knowledge developed were transferred to them. Finally, this project
also served as input to subsequent sector work done directly with the provincial
utilities by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). In fact, the IDB Loan
Agreement for the provincial distribution investment loan established that the
methodology developed in the Power Engineering Project should be used for
prioritizing the investments included in the expansion plans.
5.5   Financial Perfonnance. This project financed 100% of the foreign
expenditures and the consultants services, therefore minimizing the counterpart
funds requirements to the Borrower. The participating utilities covered the costs
of living for their personnel in Buenos Aires. There were no counterpart funds
issues. It is important to mention, that due to the natre of the project, the
Bank did not attempt to include in the Loan Agreement typical financial
covenants for the envisaged participating utilities or for the sector as a whole.
Table 7, Part HI shows that the Borrower was responsible in keeping project
accounts up to date and provided the Bank with the necessary project
documentation as requested in the Loan Agreement, although there were some
delays of audit reports. The economic rate of return (ERR) was not calculated
due to the nature of the project which mainly financed studies and training.
5.6   Project Impact. This project helped the Government to get a clear idea
of the magnitude of the sector problems at the time. It also helped to open the
dialogue between the Government and the provinces regarding the power sector.
Originally, it was anticipated that this project was going to serve as the basis for
a Second Electric Power Sector project, which would finance the distribution
investment priorities identified for the provincial utilities. However, the overall
situation of the power sector in the country-particularly the financial situation-
had deteriorated so much that it forced the Bank to abandon the idea of a second
sector project.  Instead, the Bank decided to concentrate its efforts on
completing the YacyretA hydroelectric plant rather than starting new operations
in a sector that was full of uncertainties. It is also worth noting that all studies
on corporate organization, tariffs, investment and service quality were actively
used by the SE as a solid and prompt source of information during the
privatization process of SEGBA.
5.7   Project Sustainability. This project assisted in the training of over 150
people in the different utilities, equipping the participants with technologies and
know-how that the sector was lacking. In addition, this project paved the way
for the establishment of sector expansion plans, systematically updated, which
are currently under execution. The project also slowed and reversed in some



cases, the technical deterioration of the provincial utilities, creating better
conditions for a successful privatization process. However, the sustainability
of the improvements will diminish if the provincial utilities do not maintain
trained personnel in their functional specialties.
5.8    Bank Performance. Processing of this loan proceeded smoothly with
the Bank providing significant assistance to the Argentines whenever needed.
The project absorbed a total of 62.0 staff weeks of which 34.5 were allocated
to project preparation, appraisal and negotiations (Table 8, Part HI). The
project was supervised about once a year. The number of supervision missions
was adequate with good coverage, and advantage was taken of other projects'
supervision missions to supervise this project as well.
5.9   In general the Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. Even though
the sector had a lot of problems, the Bank's decision to keep this project simple
was of great help. This project clearly allowed the Bank to open the channels
of communication among the different utilities and the Government, and more
important, provided all the parties involved with the necessary data to start
dealing with the problems identified.
5.10 Lemons Learned. At appraisal the Bank correctly identified the
difficulties in coordination between the SE and the provincial utilities that could
jeopardize the success of the project. To deal with this situation, the Bank
requested as a condition for effectiveness a commitment from the provincial
utilities regarding obligations' for the project implementation. This condition
was actually met prior to loan signing (pam. 4.1). If this condition had not
been set in advance, it would have been very difficult, perhaps impossible, for
the SE to make the utilities to follow any instructions, since these utilities are
autonomous. It is also important to highlight the important role that team work
had in the successful implementation of this project. The participants went
beyond merely fulfilling a loan condition and really worked towards making the
project a success.
5.11 Borrower Performance. SE's and the provincial utilities' performance
during the execution of the project was very good. During appraisal the need
to seek cooperation of the provincial utilities was discussed as a key factor for
the successful completion of this project. The fact is that there was a spirit of
1.    In order for the Low to become offective the Bank requeed in section 6.01(a) of
the Loan Agreement tha 'the Borrw entered into gements, saiactory to the Bank,
with each one of the  icipating Utilities; such agreemts should provide, inter al;a, that
each one of the Participating Utilities performed tho obligations and duties set forth in the
Schedule 6 to the Loan Agroment.*



- 10-
cooperation among all the parties involved, and this made for successful project
execution. Although there was some lack of experience and knowledge in terms
of how the Bank does business (procurement, etc.), the project moved along
rather smoothly.
5.12 The Borrower fulfilled all the conditions specified in the Loan Agreement
(Table 7, Part D), and the utilities provided the qualified professionals to staff
the Executing Unit. In addition, SEGBA provided administrative support to the
project. All the utilities participated in the baining component, and
professionals were granted the necessary leave to attend the training programs.
Also, the utilities organized and implemented programs for the internal
dissemination and teaching of the knowledge and skills acquired by the staff that
participated in the training programs. Finally, the information generated by the
studies was shared not only with all parties originally involved in the project,
but also with some utilities that were not part of the project.
5.13 The completion of the quality of service study, which included a
customer service pilot program in SEGBA, faced some implementation
difficulties due to labor problems in SEGBA. Basically, the labor union was
opposed to the operation of the Customer Service Pilot Union because it was
seen as a challenge to the rigid use of staff according to their established
functional classification. However, this problem was taken care of shortly after
the Bank was informed of the situation, and no Bank action was needed.
5.14 It was envisioned that SEGBA, as the leading utility in the country,
would apply the results of the project to its operation, as they became available.
Even though some SEGBA staff were key participants in the project, they never
succeeded in changing the bureaucratic, 'reaction to change' mentality of the
intermediate ranks of SEGBA's management, or mobilizing the upper
management, which had been subject to frequent turns-overs. The Bank, whose
fifth distribution and transmission project with SEGBA was developed almost
simultaneously with the Engineering Loan, was not any more successful with
SEGBA than the Government. In fact, the acute signs of its deterioration as a
utility was one of the reasons the Government chose to start the privatization of
the power sector with SEGBA.
5.15 Relations with the Borrower. The Bank's relationship with the
Government and the beneficiaries during the project implementation period was
very good. As mentioned in para 5.3, good understanding between the Bank
and the SE allowed the use of the project resources in a wider perspective,
during the generation supply crisis of 1988. During project execution, there
was a change of Government, which caused some changes in the project
administration. However, the same spirit of cooperation remained among the



- 11 -
SE, the utilities and the Bank. About 70% of the project objectives were met
during the first administration and the remaining 30% during the second
administration.
5.16 Consulants Services. The majority of the consultant services were
provided by an Argentine consortium (DISTRELEC), which allowed for the
development of the local consultants. Their capable performance was essential
for the project's success. Also, two important European utilities, EdF (France)
and ENEL (Italy), provided consulting services to the Argentines during the
execution of the project. The use of these consultants facilitated the application
of international methodologies to the sector and left the provinces with up-to-
date knowledge.
5.17 Procurement. The implementation of this project confronted some
delays, mostly due to a lack of knowledge of Bank's procurement procedures.
Basically, every document submitted to the Bank for its review and approval had
to go through several iterations until it was finally approved. Documents that
had been already approved by the Bank were not used in future occasions,
instead new documents were usually prepared, which produced delays. The
procurement of the technical equipment to carry out the load curve survey
caused a one year delay on the project closing (para. 4.2). This delay was
mostly caused because the equipment that the Argentines were interested in
acquiring for the first phase of the survey (industrial customers) was not
standard or easy to acquire. For the second phase of the survey (residential
customers) the Argentines, after some discussion with the Bank, agreed to use
more conventional equipment. This delay might have been avoided if the Bank
had opted for not letting the Argentines try too many innovations. However,
given the exploratory nature of the work, the Bank took the limited risk of
allowing usage of non-standard technologies.
5.18  Project Documentation and Data. The Loan Agreement was adequate
for achieving project objectives and the combined President's/Appraisal Report
provided a useful framework for the Bank, the Borrower and the utilities in
terms of what the sector problems were, which in turn facilitated the project
implementation. Also, the supervision reports and the Executing Unit Reports
contained enough detail to keep the Bank well informed about the progress of
the project. In addition, the audit reports also proved to be a good record of the
project evolution. A project library was organized by the Executing Unit,
where all reports and major documents produced by the project were kept.



- 12 -
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Thanslated fivm the ktter dated June 10, 1994 from Ms. Monica Servwnt,
National Directorfor Promoion, Secrtariat of Energy. The text was edited
to increase readability. The original is availabk in the project files.
The Power Engineering Project started in 1987, but its design
was addressed in 1985-a period during which there was no glimmer of the
profound transformation that would take place in Argentina starting in 1989
and in the power sector starting in 1991.
A technical assistance program was outlined for the sector at
both the national and provincial levels, and subjects were targeted to give
answers to the classic problems of power distribution utilities:
* Deemand forecasts
* Sales projection
* Reduction and control of losses
e Selection of investments
e Programming of works
e Service quality
* Meter readings
* Rate calculation
* Standardization and development of suppliers
* Sectoral aspects (economic-administrative management of the utility)
The final analysis of the project, which the SE ought to make,
is to evaluate its real benefits in each segment of activity in the power sector.
Power sector organization has changed, and the old integrated,
vertical vision is not possible today. Decisions at the national level -
connected with the management modalities of the activity - are no longer
political decisions.
Despite the preceding statement, personnel of the participating
utilities received a significant training in technical-economic and commercial
matters, applicable to the management and legal aspects of their activities.
All the documentation prepared in the Power Engineering
Project has been transferred to the National Electricity Regulatory Entity who
has organized a library where all the documentation is available to those
requiring it. The SE keeps a copy of those documents in magnetic storage.



- 13 -
It is convenient to make a specific review of the applications of
the project results, thus:
*  Within the framework of this project and in the context of the
responsibilities of EdF, one of the foreign consultants, the
optimization models for operation MARGO and OSCAR were
developed, around which the technical functions of the Dispatch
Center were organized (currently the responsibility of
CAMMESA). In this same context, the tools for short-term
forecasting, which take into account temperature variations,
were also transferred.
*  The methodology to calculate the rate schedule for the new
distribution concessionaires in the former territory of SEGBA
was prepared based on the developments of this project.
*  Also developed in the project was the model for calculating
aggregate distribution costs presently being used by the SE in its
advisory support to the provinces for the privatization of their
distribution business units.
*  The analysis of service quality defined the parameters for the
control of the power distribution concessions which is, more
precisely, the evaluation of the service based on technical and
commercial quality.
:  The execution of the load surveys in each of the principal
markets of the Argentine electrical system will be coordinated in
the future by the SE, since it is considered a very useful
statistical tool for better evaluating demand evolution.
*  The tools developed to calculate the investments for the
expansion of distribution networks (with EdF) and the sub-
transmission or regional distribution networks (with ENEL), are
already being used by all the participating electrical utilities.
It is necessary to point out some restrictive aspects in the
application of the project results which are not due to the modality of
implementation adopted, but instead are a product of management instability
at the utilities.
* It was not possible to ensure the maintenance of all staff
members in the function for which they had been trained.



- 14 -
* The load surveys were not totally completed, although the
equipment has already been transferred to the intended
jurisdictions, and future activity will be coordinated by the SE,
as already mentioned.
In short, it may be expressed that the result of the project is
positive, from the point of view of the increased technical capacity of the
involved staff as well as that of the SE.



- S -
PART m: STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1: Related Bank LAns
(US$ million)
* .. -- . i - i ..~~~~~~............... ... .......- l
308-AR   Financing of the           1962      95.0     Closed
Costanera thermal power
plant
525-AR   Expansion of thermal       1968      55.0     Closed
generation
644-AR   Expansion of transmission  1969      60.0     Closed
and distribution systems
577-AR   Construction of El         1968      82.0     Closed
Choc6n hydroelectric
Power plant
1330-AR  Construction of SEGBA'S    1976      115.0    Closed
fourth power Plant
1761-AR  Construction of the        1980      210.0    Closed
YacyretA hydroelectric
power plant
2854-AR  SEGBA V                    1988      276.0    Active
2998-AR  Electric Power Sector I    1989      245.0    Closed
3520-AR  YacyretA II                1992      300.0    Active
I



- 16 -
Table 2: Project Tlmetable
(US$ million)
ste                 fl  0XXi 0at. EkPSanaed   40  eI0Actua fat.----i44
Completion of Preparation                       September 1985
Appraisal Mission             November 1985    December 1985
Loan Negotiations             April 1986        July 1986
Board Approval                June 1986         September 1986
Loan Signature                July 1986         June 1987
Loan Effectiveness            September 1987    September 1987
Project Completion            December 1991      April 1993
Loan Closing                  June 1992         June 1993
Last Disbursement Date        June 1992         June 1993
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
fiscal Year      Estinated   I    Actua          Actual as %
Cumulative      Cumulative       of Esimed 
FY 87             1.7              0.0              0.0
FY 88             5.0              3.1             62.0
FY 89             7.8              6.6             84.6
FY 90            10.4             11.0            105.8
FY 91            12.0             13.5            112.5
FY 92            14.0             13.8             98.6
FY 93            14.0             14.0             100.0



- 17 -
Table 4: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Category
(US$)
.:.  .: :---  Category       ..-            Appnsa    'Axual 
C:tegory       -     :     1-F--       sttimate::  Disbuised
1. Goods                                       5,698,000   3,669,967
2. Consultants' Services and Training          4,655,000   9,720,493
3. Training                                     847,000       609,540
4. Unallocated                                  2.800,000         ---
TOTAL                       14,000,000  14,000,000
Table 5: Planned And Actual Completion Dates of Components
Project Components          -Appraisal      Acta  I   Months
of Delay~
1. Sectoral Matters Study        Dec 1987    Dec 1989            24
2. Quality of Service Study      Dec 1987    Dec 1989            24
3. Engineering Planning Study    Dec 1988    Jul 1990            19
4. Operational Planning Study    Mar 1989    Dec 1989            09
5. Metering Program              Jun 1988      Dec 1990 a        30
6. Training                      Dec 1988    Jul 1989            07
a/ Refers to program design. Load surveys were transferred to participating utilities to be
carried out after the project closing. Acquisition of the metering equipment was procesed the
last year of the project's execution and finalized at the project closing (June 1993).



- 18 -
Table 6: Project Cost and Fnancing
(US$ Thousands)
Project Costs
1. Distribution Studies            6,852        9,691           +22
2. Metering Progran *               2,292           19          ---
3. Training Programn                1,330          822           -38
4. Equipment                        5,180        3,468            -7
5. Supervision                         80         ---           ---
Sub-Total            15,734      14,000b           -
Contingencies                      5,766         ---
Counterpart Funds                   ---        10273
Total Project Cost           21,500       24,273          +13
Project Fnancing
Bank                             14,000       14,000             0
SE                                750         10.273          +37
Total Financing            21,500       24,273          +13
a/ The Metering Progm coas correspond to foreign consultant cos only.
b/ The actual data by component excludes the local coal.



- 19 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants and Conditions
3.01(a)    Borrower to carry out the Project through   Met
SE, with the assistance of the utilities.
3.01(b)   Borrower to carry out the analyses and  Met, with delays
studies of the Project in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02      The Borrower shall maintain the Executing  Met
Unit staffed with personnel satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.03(a)    Submit for the Bank's approval the content  Met
of each program as well as the schedule of
its implementation.
3.03(b)    Select the beneficiaries of the training  Met
programs in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.03(c)    By December 31, to exchange views with   Met
the Bank on training programs to be carried
out the following year.
3.03(d)    Furnish the Bank the results of each  Met
training and the benefits to be derived
therefrom.
3.04      Borrower to enter into agreements with the  Met
participating utilities.
3.05(a)    The Borrower to request data from     Met
utilities.
3.05(b)   The borrower to provide above data to the   Met
Bank.
3.06      Procurement of good and consultants    Met
according to schedule 4.
3.07      Terms of reference of studies satisfactory to Met
the Bank.
4.01(a)    Adequate records and accounts.        Met
4.01(b)    Auditing Accounts.                    Met, with delays
in some years
4.01(c)    Provisions of withdrawals on the basis of   Met
statements of expenditures.



- 20 -
Table 8: Staff Inputs
(staff weeks)
I~ank ~  1985196   1987  19818    9019219                    ha
Preparation      1.3   3.8                                            5.1
Appraisal             27.1   1.5                                     28.6
Negotiations                       0.8                                0.8
Supervision     -      -    09   §.    413 5   2,            06      27L5
TOTAL            1.3  30.9   2.4   7.3   4.0  13.5   2.6    0.6    62.0
Table 9: Mission Data
Activity    Month/Yieir: People  Days  Rat!ng   Type of Problems
Appraisal           11-85       3       17
Supervision 1      09-87        3       10      1    None
Supervision II      11-88              19       1    Implementation
delays of customer
service pilot program
Supervision m      06-89         1      19     1,2   None
Supervision IV      12-89        1      10      1    Overdue audit
reports
Supervision V      06-90         1      12     1,2   Problems complying
with Legal
Covenants.
Supervision VI     08-91         1      7       1    Overdue Fin.
Stmnts. & Project
Accounts & Special
Account Audits
Supervision VII    06-92        2      10       1    Delay in the
acquisition of
residential load
survey equipment
October 27, 1994



