Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IV. Y >S--a4s
Report No. P-4285-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
UStl4.0 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
August 14, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents 1/
Currency unit             =       Austral (A.)
lUS$                      =       0.8 A.
Weights and Measures
kW                                Kilowatt
MW                                M Megawatt (1,000 KW)
GW                        =       Gigawatt (1,000 MW)
kWh                       =       Kilowatt hour
MWh                       =       Megawatt hour
GWh                       =       Gigawatt hour
kv                        =       Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
TOE                       =       Tons of oil equivalent
"M" preceeding any unit indicates thousand
"MM" preceeding any unit indicat millions
GlossaSy of Abbreviations
ALUAR                     =       Aluminio Argentino S.A.I.C.
AyE                               A hgua y Energia Electrica Sociedad del
Estado
CNEA                      =       Comision Nacional de Energia Atomica
CTMSG                     =       Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande
DEBA                      =       Direccion de Energia ELectrica de la
Provincia de Buenos Aires
DPESF                     =       Direccion Provincial de Energia de Santa Fe
DUC                       =       Despacho Unificado de Carga
EBY                       =       Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
EMSE                      =       Energia Mendoza, Sociedad del Estado
EPEC                      =       Empresa Provincial de Energia de Cordoba
EU                        =       Executing Unit
HIDRONOR                          H Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica, Sociedad
Anonima
MOSP                      =       Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos
NCD                       =       Non-Corporate Debt
p.a.                      =       per annum
SEGBA                     =       Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires
SIN                       =       Sistema Interconectado Nacional
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
1/ As of May 30, 1986



FoR OICA USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        The Argentine Republic.
Beneficiaries:  Energy Secretariat of Ministry of Public Works and Services
(MOSP), SEGBA. (Serviclos Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires),
AyE (Agua y Energia Electrica) and the power 'ilities of
the Provinces of Buenos Aires (DEBA), Cordoba (EPEC), Santa
Fe (DPESF), and Mendoza (EMSE).
Amount:          US$14.0 million equivalent.
Terms:           15 years, including three years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Project
O0jectives:    The proposed project would assist the Governmenc in
implementing measures to improve the condiLions of
electricity distribution in the country by providing the
beneficiaries with modern equipment and methodologies to
improve their distribution,planning, and design capability.
Project
Description:   The proposed project consists of:
(a)  four distribution studies oriented to:
(i)  improve the sector organization and coordination
for distribution of electricity,
(ii) evaluate the quality and reliability of
electricity service and the origin and level of
losses,
(iii) design and implement methodologies for least-cost
planning and define standards for materials and
equipment; and
(iv) recommend procedures for improving the utiLities'
operational planning, budgeting and inventory
control.
(b) a metering program designed to provide data for
studies under (a) above and to improve system
expansion planning, rate design and billing;
(c) a training program which would include fellowships,
courses and arrangements with toreign distrihution
companies for on-the-job training.
This document has a restrie distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefit
and Risks:     The proposed project would provide the Government with
recommendations for increasing the efficiency of the
utilities in charge of distribution services. The
utilities would improve their planning procedures with
equipment and analytical tools provided under the project.
Since the activities to be undertaken would require close
cooperation of several entities, which entails some risk of
delays, the arrangements for project implementation include
clearly defined responsibilities for project participants.
The scarcity of Government technical staff would be
mitigated by the retention of specialized consultants.
Estimated Cost                                    Local     Foreign      Total
--- US$ million -------
Part A. Planning Studies          3.6         4.7        8.3
Part B. Metering Program          1.8         4.4        6.2
Part C.  Training Component       0.2         1.1        1.3
Base Cost                5.6       10.2        15.8
Physical Contingencies  0.5         1.0         1.5
Price Contingencies      1.4        2.8        4.2
Total Project Cost       7.5       14.0       21.5
Financing Plan:
Bank                                -        14.0       14.0
Government                        7.5           _        7.5
Total                             7.5        14.0       21.5
Estimated
Disbursements: Bank FY             1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
------------- US$ million -------------
Annual               1.7    3.3    2.8    2.6    1.6    2.0
Cumulative           1.7    5.0    7.8   10.4   12.0   14.0
Appraisal
Report:        This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.
Map:            IBRD 19608



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Argentina for the equivalent of US$14.0 million in
support of a Power Engineering Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in June/July 1983, and its
report (4979-AR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1984.
The present report reflects the major findings of that mission and of
subsequent updating missions. The Executive Directors have also received a
report entitled Argentina: Strategies toward Industrial and Export
Development' (5841b-AR), dated September 30, 1985. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate popula-
tion, an export-oriented and diversified agricultural sector and a
diversified industrial sector. The economic performance of the country has
suffered, however, from policy instability and economic distortions
introduced by the frequently changing governments. Except for agriculture,
public sector participation in the economy is high, industrial production
is largely domestic-market-oriented, and available resources are not
utilized efficiently. Until recently, a large public sector deficit
contributed significantly to the country's very high inflation level.
A. Economic Developments of the Last Decade
4.        Over the last decade, abrupt shifts in economic policies weakened
Argentina's productive capacity and exacerbated structural imbalances.
Changes in policies produced large and rapid fluctuations in real GDP,
inflation, the real exchange rate, the external trade balance, real
interest rates, and real salaries.
5.        High and rising inflation, physical and technological
deterioration of the country's productive capacity, major dislocations in
industrial production and huge external debt service requirements resulted
in general economic stagnation, such that the real 1984 per capita GDP was



-2-
14% lower than its 1974 level. There has been no growth since 1984. Heavy
borrowing in the late 1970s multiplied the country's external debt as a
share of GDP sevenfold (from 10% to 68%). Today, interest payments on the
external debt absorb nearly half of gross domestic savings, compared to
less than 5% in the early 1970s.
6.        The productive sectors, particularly manufacturing, are beset by
thorny structural and financial problems. More than 40% of capacity in the
construction industry, artificially inflated during a brief construction
boom of the late 1970s, is now idle. Significant underutilization of
capacity also exists in many manufacturing industries, and most firms lack
sufficient working capital. Financial intermediation is costly and
inefficient, interest rates are high boch in nominal and real terms, and
oversized banking institutions are suffering severe difficulties.
Argentina's self-sufficiency in oil has deteriorated as the ratio of oil
reserves to annual output has declined. Proven reserves of gas have
increased, but the processing and transport infrastructure to exploit them
is deficient.
7.        The public sector is simultaneously overstaffed and seriously
short of managerial and technical expertise. Ineffective tax administra-
tion, together with inadequate budgeting and investment planning processes,
contributes significantly to the large public sector deficit. Cuts in
investment to curb the public sector deficit have led to a deterioration of
social infrastructure and have jeopardized the reliability of power supply.
B. Policies for Adjustment
8.        Economic mismanagement and the consequences of the 1982 South
Atlantic war hastened the departure of the military Government. A
democratically elected Government took office at the end of 1983, facing
spiraling inflation and growing balance of payments difficulties. Also,
the after-effects of the industrial recession were threatening the solvency
of the financial system.
9.        Toward the end of 1984, the Government entered into a 15-month
standby agreement with the IMF and rescheduled its external debt with
official creditors, covering interest and principal up to 1985, and with
the commercial banks, covering principal up to 1985. It also obtained the
commitment of US$4.2 billion in "fresh money" to finance the current
account deficit and to eliminate arrears accumulated through 1983-1985. The
principal objectives of the stabilization program were to: (a) lower the
rate of inflation from an average of about 20% per month in the last
quarter of 1984 to about 8% per month by the end of 1985; and (b) achieve a
balance of payments position that would enable Argentina to meet its
external obligations while satisfying the needs of domestic recovery.
10.       The Government moved to comply with the conditions under the
standby agreement despite a deepening recession. However, by the end of
1984, shortfalls from the agreed targets of the program were observed.
During the first quarter of 1985, the Government's adherence to the program
became weaker. Therefore, the IMF suspended the first conditional
drawdown under the standby agreement until completion of the 1985 first
quarter review of the program.



- 3 -
11.       A new economic team took office in late February 1985 and began
preparing a new package to deal with inflation, which had already exceeded
20% per month. By the second quarter of 1985, economic conditions had
worsened significantly. The economy was facing spiraling inflation while
the recession intensified. The Government then decided to abandon gradual-
ism in favor of 'shock treatment- and set about to prepare the country for
a major change in economic policy necessary to break inflationary expecta-
tions. In June 1985, the Government devalted the peso by 18% to improve
relative prices, raised the price of meat by almost 100%, and introduced a
number of fiscal measures with the purpose of drastically reducing the
overall fiscal deficit. It increased prices of petroleum and gas products
and tariffs on electricit.y, telephone, transport and postal services; a
temporary 10% import surcharge and a 9-percentage-points increase in the
export tax were approved; a 12Z cut in the 1985 budget expenditure took
place; and a hiring freeze was declared in the public sector. Following
these measures, the Government announced a very strong adjustment program,
supported by a revised and more stringent standby agreement with the IMF,
and initiated its implementation.
12.       The targets under the Government's economic program comprised:
(a) a drastic cut in the total public sector deficit (including Central
Bank operating losses) from 12.5% of GDP in the first half of 1985 to 2.5%
on average in the second half of 1985, with the deficit to be financed by
external borrowing, thus eliminating domestic credit expansion to the
public sector. Further expenditure cuts were to follow the ones
undertaken, and lower inflation was to shorten revenue collection lags and
allow for lower nominal interest rates, thus reducing interest service
payments; (b) a reduction in the balance of payments' current account
deficit from 3.5% of GDP in 1984 to 2.4% in 1985; (c) a monetary reform
that included the introduction of a new currency unit pegged to the US
dollar and a system for de-indexing peso-denominated contracts; and (d) a
wage-price freeze. The program was supported by an agreement with
commercial bank creditors to: (a) reschedule about US$13.9 billion in
principal payments during the period of the standby (1985/86); (b) provide
US$4.2 billion of new money (para. 9), of which US$2.2 billion was to be
disbursed by September 1985; (c) establish a trade credit maintenance
facility to maintain such financing at its September 30, 1984 level; and
(d) establish a standby money market facility that would maintain creditor
banks' deposits with Argentine banks at their September 30, 1984 level.
13.       The Government made substantial progress in stabilizing the
economy during 1985. The monthly rate of inflation, as measured by the
consumer price index, dropped from 30% in June of 1985 to 2.5% in
December. The overall public sector deficit was reduced to between 4% and
5% of GDP as a result of the revenue and expenditure measures and the sharp
drop in inflation. The reserve position of the Central Bank also improved,
reflecting increased confidence in the Government's policies. The
Covernment has since begun to phase out the freeze on wages and prices.
This action resulted in a 4.5% average increase in monthly inflation during
March-April of this year as compared to 1.7% in February. In addition, the
Government has made compensatory adjustments in the exchange rate
(following a policy of periodic exchange rate corrections) and public
tariffs and introduced a program to step up tax collection. As a result,
the overall public sector cash deficit has been further contained to



- 4 -
manageable levels. The Government did not meet all the targets under the
Fund standby for final tranche disbursement. However, the Fund Board
waived the remaining conditions. The final tranche was disbursed in June
1986 following the Government's presentation to the Fund of a letter
setting out its proposed economic policy objectives during the second half
of this year. The Government has indicated its intention to negotiate a
new standby agreement. The Government has also received the final
scheduled disbursements of new money under the agreement with the
commercial banks. The Government plans to continue phasing out the wage
and price freeze. It is also expected to simplify export procedures and
gradually reduce import restrictions to make the economy more competitive.
Moreover, the Government has stated that, for the public sector, the new
wage policy will require compensating fiscal measures for wage increases.
In this connection, while there may be increasing union pressures,
sustaining the momentum of the medium term program will require decisive
actions on the part of the Government in the fiscal, trade and financial
sectors. In particular, continued effort to reduce the overall fiscal
deficit below current levels is necessary in order to break longer term
inflationary expectations and ensure the program's success.
14.       Since cuts in public spending and high real interest rates will
have a dampening effect upon domestic demand, the Government has been
careful not to raise expectations for a quick economic recovery. Real GDP
is estimated to have declined by about 4.5% in 1985. Export response to
the program has not yet been significantly positive, and recent floods have
affected the exportable output of grains adversely. On the other hand, the
downturn in economic activity has bottomed out, and industrial production
and sales are rebounding. The Government is considering policy actions
needed to resume economic growth on a sustained basis. The Government's
program focuses upon the expansion of exports, stimulation of new
construction, privatization of state enterprises and greater reliance upon
the private sector for oil exploration and production.
C. Development Prospects and Policy Requirements
15.       Argentina's growth performance in the next five years will depend
heavily upon the continued success of the present stabilization policies
and the implementation of structural reforms. Restoring domestic and
overseas confidence in economic management and renewing private sector
investment will require maintaining the recent trends in orice stability.
Moreover, given the burden of external interest payments on Argentina's
gross domestic savings, public investment will be limited largely to
improving the efficiency of existing capacity, completing unfinished
projects, and starting only a few high priority projects. The Government
is in the process of revising public investment programs to give priority
to those projects which alleviate immediate bottlenecks, have a high rate
of returr. and can generate foreign exchange.
16.       Argentina's key development objectives are to: (a) strengthen and
expand the growth of exports in order to reduce the country's external debt
relative to GDP and exports; and (b) resume medium-term growth as the
stabilization program takes hold. The Government's economic program and



- 5 -
policies are being designed to achieve these objectives. In particular,
special emphasis is being given to the elimination of distortions in order
to produce a rapid output and export response. Faster recovery of per
capita consumption can take place only after medium-term growth has
resumed.
17.       The current Government strategy is based upon an improvement of
the investment climate and the restoration of adequate export incentives.
The proposed policy objectives are closely in line with the recommendations
of the 1984 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM): (a) improvement in public
sector finances and efficiency; (b) overhaul of the tax system and tax
administration; (c) reduction in the number of public enterprises and
reform of government-enterprise relationships; (d) improvements in
incentives for private industry and agriculture; (e) reform of the
financial system and active support for manufacturing exports; and
(f) increased oil exports through increased private sector participation.
Since the strategy aims at promoting productive fixed investments, real per
capita consumption is projected to rise only slightly during 1985-1990.
The Government is now in the process of giving this strategy concrete
operational content and defining the instruments for its implementation to
make it viable over the medium term. The Government has stated its
intention of presenting, in the near term, its medium term framework for
growth to the international financial community.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Improving Argentina's growth prospects for the rest of the decade
would require successful implementation of the adjustment program during
1986, the rescheduling of the country's external debt by its creditors as
it falls due, continued lending, and a continued expansion in exports
through the rest of the decade. Under those assumptions, the current
account deficit of the balance of payments has been projected to reach
about US$2.3 billion during 1986, equivalent to 3.2% of GDP, to be financed
by the remaining balance of the "fresh" money provided by the commercial
banks, disbursements from the IMF standby, increasing disbursements of
existing and projected loans from public sources, and direct foreign
investment. Based upon the timely adoption by the Government of medium
term growth policies, real GDP growth, beginning in 1986, could resume at
about 3% per year. This growth depends upon the projected expansion in
exports, particularly, by increasing agricultural production through
intensified use of fertilizer, and by expanding industrial production for
exports through the reduction of trade distortions and simplification of
procedures, increased export promotion, and renewed private sector
investment activities; the availability of increased external financing
over the next years will also play a significant role. This projected
growth will also depend upon improvements in budget control and execution
and upon increasing the operating efficiency cf public enterprises
necessary to maintain price stability. Under these assumptions, the
current account deficit would decline rapidly from 1988 on, as a result of
increasing proceeds from grain and manufacturing exports. Thus,
projections indicate that Argentina would be in a position to eliminate the
current account deficit of the balance of payments in the beginning of the
1990s.



- 6-
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
19.       At the end of 1985, the total public sector external debt of
Argentina was US$38.7 billion. From US$8.4 billion at the end of 1978, it
had grown more than fourfold. The structure of the debt had also changed
radically during the 1978-1983 period. At the end of 1978, the debt to
commercial banks constituted 38% of the total, but this ratio rose to 60%
by the end of 1980 and to 87% by the end of 1984. By 1979, total debt
service requirements had already surpassed net exports, and, since 1982,
the trade surplus, although large, has not been sufficient to pay the
accrued interest. Thus, when the South Atlantic crisis disrupted normal
rollovers and lending in 1982, Argentina began accumulating principal and
interest arrears. The Government provided exchange rate guarantees for the
rescheduled private external debt and eventually assumed a large part of
the private sector's external obligations. Total external debt, including
arrears and private sector obligations, reached US$48.4 billion by the end
of 1985.
20.       A sustained effort by the Government to implement domestic
policy reforms, including a reduction in protectionism, combined with
external support from financial sources, should enhance Argentina's export
potential and thus improve prospects for reducing its debt-to-exports ratio
from a level of 5 in 1985 to slightly below 4 by 1990, its external debt
servicing ratio (excluding short-term) from 61% in 1985 to 42% in 1990, and
its total debt as a percentage of GDP from 69% in 1985 to 45% in 1990.
Provided that the arrears are eliminated according to the current program
and that the large debt amortization payments due in 1986 are restructured
with a modest increase in the commercial banks' exposure, Argentina should
be able to meet the servicing requirements of its external debt during
1986-1990, including new borrowing for high-yielding projects which would
support increased foreign exchange generation, efficient import
substitution and increased domestic resource mobilization. At the end of
1985, the Bank's share of Argentina's total debt outstanding and disbursed
was 1.4%, and its share of external debt service payments was 2.3%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties. In the period 1979-
December 1985, the Bank made loans for ten projects, totaling US$l,045
million. Bank lending since 1980 has focused upon major infrastructure
projects and provision of credit for development of the industrial and
hydrocarbon sectors. The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project is intended to
harness the enormous potential of the Parana River in order to provide
base-load electric energy for A:gentina in the 1990s. The Second
Industrial Credit Project supports the modernization and expansion of
export-oriented industries. A Highway Sector Project is helping to augment
and maintain the road network. In parallel with these projects, the Bank
has supported the Government's efforts to exploit Argentina's energy
resources; for this purpose, five loans were approved during the



- 7 -
above-mentioned period to: (a) help Argentina to assess its hydrocarbon
reserves; (b) improve the basis for rational exploitation of coal
resources; (c) facilitate private sector participation in exploration and
production of oil and gas; (d) alter the country's two major refineries in
order to meet changing demand patterns; and (e) expand Argentina's capacity
to make effective use of its hydrocarbon resources and increase the
utilization of natural gas and its by-products. The Tfater Supply and
Sewerage Project approved last December will help to .mprove sector
f-nances and develop provincial agencies.
22.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Argentina has
suffered in recent years from policy reversals, cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures, curbs on public investments stpmming from the need for fiscal
austerity, and the private sector's reluctance to invest in an uncertain
economic environment. The Government shares the Bank's concern regarding
this situation, which has resulted in unexpectedly slow disbursements. In
response, several existing projects, including the Second Industrial Credit
and the Oil and Gas Credit Projects, have been restructured to improve
their execution, and the Government has submitted proposals to restructure
the Vocational Training Project. The Bank has also instituted procedures
for monitoring monthly disbursements and for periodic project
implementation reviews with the Government. Disbursements under Bank loans
in 1985 were more than double the 1984 rate and increased further in 1986.
23.       Promising prospects for political stability and serious efforts
by this Government to tackle Argentina's thorny economic problems provide
the Bank with an opportunity to play a key role in the country's economic
recovery and future development. The Government has requested the Bank's
help in implementing a stabilization program and in preparing the way for
renewed long term economic growth. Over the short term, the Government is
seeking help with economic analyses and expanded lending operations
designed to enhance domestic resource mobilization and increase the
availability of foreign exchange. Our economic and sector work program
includes a comprehensive export-oriented industrial study and a major
public sector investment review which is being completed. Recently, Bank
staff discussed with the Government the framework of a medium-term economic
policy reform and development program that could lay the grounds for
expanded external lending to foster economic growth and strengthen
Argentina's debt servicing capacity.
24.       The Bank's lending strategy for Argentina is directed toward
helping the country to achieve sustained medium term growth, reduce its
debt-to-export ratio and attain a modest increase in per capita
consumption. The focus of the lending program is upon: (a) technical
assistance to strengthen the Government's analytical and administrative
ability to design and implement economic reform programs; (b) financial
assistance to support the process of structural reform and growth; and (c)
playing a catalytic role in increasing external resource flows.  A key
element in the Bank's strategy is to support the Government in eliminating
the anti-export bias in the incentive system, realigning the productive
structure according to comparative advantage, strengthening the import and
debt servicing capacity, simplifying export and import procedures and



ensuring sufficient financing to expand exports. Ihe Bank is also
preparing a policy-based operation to support the implementation of
important trade policy reform initiatives, export promotion and
agricultural credit, in eddition to the Agriculture Sector Loan which it
has already a1'proved. Another key element in the Bank's strategy is
support for the reform of the financial sector. The basic objective in
this area would be to help the Government to lower the high interest rates
and operating costs of the financial system, rationalize banking
regulations and supervision, enhance competition, and provide financing for
efficient industrial capacity expansion. The Bank is preparing lending
operations in these areas including, inter alia, credit for industrial and
financial restructuring.
25.       A third lending priority is energy development.  In the area of
oil and gas development, the objective would be to support the Government
in rationalizing the scope for private sector development; clarifying the
roles of public and private enterprises with a view to enhance the
efficiency of resource use; and establishing financing mechanisms to reduce
demands on the budget, expand production and reserves and substitute
relatively abundant gas for liquid fuels. With respect to electrical
power, the objective would be to ensure adequate and reliable power supply,
restore satisfactory self-financing capacity, overcome the uneven access to
and quality of electricity service, improve sector organization and
institutional relationships and complete the Yacyreta Hydropower Project
efficiently. To support these objectives, the Bank is preparing lending
for private oil and gas developuent, and power distribution (including the
proposed Power Engineering Project).
26.       A fourth lending priority is to assist the Government's program
of public sector enterprise restructuring and privatization. The basic
objective of lending in this area is to support programs to reduce the size
of the public sector deficit, increase the efficiency of the industrial
sector, and promote local and foreign private investments. To this end,
the Board approved the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
project on June 3, 1986. Finally, the Bank is supporting infrastructure
development by aseisting the Government in its efforts to improve the
management of public sector enterprises, assist provincial and local
governments to plan and carry out programs of capital improvements, induce
greater efficiency in the use of resources, and improve and increase the
existing infrastructure. For this purpose, the Bank is preparing lending
operations for ports, water supply and urban development.
27.       IFC has made 26 investments in Argentina, totaling US$276
million, of which US$156 million has been repaid, canceled or sold. A
summary of its investments is shown in Annex II. Promotional efforts are
geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects, with emphasis
upon oil, petrochemicals and related sectors. IFC will also continue to
seek investments in projects in which its presence would facilitate the
formation of joint ventures with foreign participation and act as a
catalyst to attract higher levels of commercial financing.



- 9 -
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Resources and Consumption
28.       Argentina's energy resources are diverse and abundant.  Proven
and potential gas reserves are estimated at 2,080 million tons of oil
equivalent (MMTOE), and proven and potential oil reserves at 1,093 MMTOE.
Potential coal reserves are also large, estimated at 4,575 MMTOE, but the
low quality of deposits, as well as their distance from consumption
centers, makes their commercial exploitation doubtful. Uranium proven
reserves are estimated at 203 MMTOE - or the consumption of about 4,500 MW
of nuclear installed capacity for 30 years. Hydro power potential is
estimated at 30,000 MW, equivalent to about 30 MMTOE p.a. - or 1,500 MMTOE
over 50 years.
29.       The country's energy consumption in 1985 is estimated at 33.0
NMTOE, resulting in a per capita consumption of 1.1 tons of oil equivalent
(TOE) p.a., slightly over the Latin American average of 1.0 TOE p.a. The
country can be considered energy self-sufficient, although it imports gas
from Bolivia under a 1972 contract-which is scheduled to expire in
1992--and small amounts of siderurgical coal.
30.       The pattern of energy consumption has changed significantly.As
proven gas reserves have increased and gas fields have developed, gas has
substituted for oil in industry and electricity generation. The
substitution for oil is expected to continue beyond 1990, with more use of
natural gas in industry and households and with the commissioning of large
hydro projects currently under construction.
31.       The degree of electrification in Argentina is high when compared
to that of other Latin American countries. It is estimated that about 85Z
of Argentina's inhabitants have access to electricity. Almost all urban
centers have electricity service, while about 50% of the rural population
has access to electricity. Electricity per cap'ta consumption was about
1,400 kWh in 1984 (compared with 1,100 kWh per year for Brazil and 1,200
kWh per year for Uruguay). Total consumption from public service utilities
increased at a rate of 6.3Z p.a. in the period 1970-1979. It slowed down
after 1980, reflecting the difficult economic situation, reaching 4.1% in
1980, -2.2% in 1981, 1.5% in 1982, 6.0% in 1983 and 5.1% in 1984. For the
latter year, industrial consumption accounted for 48% of consumption and
residential and commercial for 40%.
Energy Policies
32.       Argentina's energy policies have not fostered efficient use of
the country's energy resources. In the period 1973-1983, the country's
total energy consumption grew 26% while GDP grew only 3%. Distorted
pricing policies are believed to be the main cause of this problem since,
for long periods of time, the Government allowed prices of oil derivatives
and electriciy to decrease in real terms. The structure of electricity
tariffs does not promote conservation because the tariffs are affected by
regional preferences and cross-subsidization (para. 49).



- 10 -
33.       In addition to earnings from electricity sales, Argentina's power
sector is financed from external and domestic loans, Government
contributions, and taxes on sales of fuels and electricity called,
respectively, Fuel and Electrical Funds. The Electrical Funds are
initially collected by the utilities in the electricity bills and allocated
each year by the Energy Secretariat (para. 35) to the power sector
utilities. The Fuel Funds channeled to the national utilities (para. 36)
are estimated at about US$411 million for 1986, while the Electrical Funds
are estimated at US$156 million.
34.       The Government recently completed an energy plan whose main
objectives are: (a) to increase the participation of gas and hydro
resources in the country's energy supply; (b) to increase oil exploration
efforts, and (c) to set-up an energy price system which corrects pricing
distortions and fosters conservation and substitution. The country is
expected to maintain its energy independence through the year 2000 by
increasing substantially the shares of gas and hydroelectricity in the
country's energy balance (gas: from 31% in 1983 to 36% in 2000; hydro: from
9% in 1983 to 22% in 2000) and reducing oil's share from 52% to 33%.
Power Sector Organization
35.       Although the Federal Government and the Provincial Governments
own all generation, transmission and distribution public service
facilities, the sector organization is fragmented, and responsibilities for
policies and regulations are divided among several federal and provincial
entities. The Energy Secretariat (SE) of the Ministry of Public Works and
Services is in charge of defining the sector policies. SE is responsible
for (a) the overall energy planning, (b) granting of concessions for
exploration and exploitation for petroleum and gas fields and for
electricity power supply, (c) pricing policies, and (d) policies for energy
conservation and development of new sources of energy.
36.       The country's national power utilities and their role in the
power sector are listed below:
Agua y Energia Electrica (AyE). A Government-owned utility in
charge of nationwide generation, transmission and bulk supply,
which also distributes electricity in a few provinces. It has
responsibilities in integrated basin development, irrigation, flood
control, drainage and reclamation.
Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA). A Government-
owned utility in charge of generation, subtransmission, and
distribution in the Greater Buenos Aires area.
Comision Nacional de Energia Atomica (CNEA). The Government agency
in charge of developing nuclear energy, constructs and operates
power plants and is in charge of other nuclear applications.
Comision Tecnica Mixta del Salto Grande (CTMSG). A Government-
owned utility in charge of the binational Argentina/Uruguay hydro
project Salto Grande, currently in operation.



- 11 -
Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (EBY). The binational agency in charge
of the construction (and eventually of the operation) of the
Yacyreta Argentina/Paraguay hydro project.
Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica (HIDRONOR). A Government-owned utility
responsible for developing the hydro resources of the North
Patagonia region.
Electricity services in the provinces are the responsibilities of the
following provincial utilities: Direccion de Energia Elec.rica de la
Provincia de Buenos Aires (DEBA) for the province of Buenos Aires, Empresa
Provincial de Energia de Cordoba (EPEC) for the province of Cordoba,
Energia Mendoza Sociedad del Estado (EMSE) for the province of Mendoza,
Direccion Provincial de Energia de Santa Fe (DPESF) for the province of
Santa Fe; and a number of smaller utilities in other provinces. AyE,
however, is in charge of distributing electricity in a few provinces.
37.     SE has direct control of the three major national utilities: AyE,
SEGBA, and HIDRONOR. EBY reports directly to the Ministry of Public Works
and Services. CTMSG reports to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. CNEA
reports directly to the Presidency. A national dispatch center (DUC),
operated by AyE, is in charge of coordinating the operations of the larger
electricity producers (AyE, SEGBA, CNEA, CTHSG and HIDRONOR) to ensure
economic use of generation facilities.
38.       The provinces' constitutional autonomy enables them to grant
concessions for electricity services. They may also set financial rules
and tariffs for the operation of the facilities without the obligation to
maintain specific standards of service or providing data to the Federal
Government.
Government Goals in the Sector
39.       The Government is seeking to improve resource allocation within
the sector through optimization of the sector's expansion programs and
improved coordination of operations. To achieve this, the Government has
decided that:
(a)    planning for new investments in generation and transmission will
be centralized at the SE. SE is responsible for preparing
generation expansion plans. and is coordinating and supervising
transmission planning;
(b)    the implementation of future generation and transmission projects
will be the responsibility of the national utilities. Provincial
utilities which have initiated construction of generation works
would complete them, but would not start new ones;
(c)    tho operations and the expansion of distribution services in the
Buenos Aires city area will be the responsibility of SEGBA and in
the rest of the country of the corresponding provincial
utilities, and



- 12 -
(d)    actions should be taken to restore the financial soundness of the
sector and improve the efficiency of national and provincial
utilities.
40.       Steps taken by the Government to achieve the above goals are
reflected in the amended covenants of the Yacyreta loan, under which it has
been agreed that:
(a)    the Government will implement a program of tariff increases and
efficiency improvements designed to improve the self-financing
ratios and rates of return of the major power companies (para.
50);
(b)    by March 31, 1987 the Government will carry out an organizational
and operational efficiency study of the sector and of the
national utilities; and
(c)    by August 31, 1986 the Government will prepare an action program
aimed at reducing the electricity losses of the national power
companies to adequate levels.
41.       The proposed project is part of, and the first step towards, the
Government's broad-based effort to improve the efficiency of Argentina's
regional power distribution system, notably by strengthening coordination
between the national and provincial utilities and the efficiency of the
latter companies. These efforts include the setting of:
(a)    countrywide regulations which would assure even coverage and
quality of service;
(b)    improved planning methods and tools to optimize allocation of
resources; and
(o)    standardization of methods and systems for operating the networks
to promote efficiency in the utilities' operations and system
coordli.ation and integration.
Power Facilities and Expansion Plan
42.       In 1985, the installed capacity of the National Interconnected
System (SIN), which covers about 90Z of the national public service, was
9,770 MW, of which 3,780 MW (39%) was hydro, 5,050 MW (56Z) conventional
thermal and 940 MW (5%) nuclear.
43.       The generation projects now under construction originated
from expansion programs prepared in the 1970s on the basis of optimistic
power demand projections, which assumed 8.6% p.a. growth rates in
consumption during 1979-1990. Actual growth during 1979-1985 turned out to
be much lower (para. 31). Current demand projections, prepared at end
1985, forecast only 4.8% p.a. growth during 1985-1990 and 6.3% during
1990-2000. Revised energy balances have shown that the original dates for
commissioning some of the projects under construction could be delayed in



- 13 -
order to keep pace with revised demand growth estimates and that no new
generation facility need be started before 1988. Consequently, the
Government has reduced the investment program in line with the lower
expected demand.
44.       A 500 kV transmission grid currently links the major
consumption areas with the production centers and is used for the transfer
of large blocks of energy. A network of 230-kv lines completes the grid
and permits energy transfers between load centers. Studies related to
expansions between 1987 and 2000 are currently being prepared under Loan
1761-AR. The study is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to be
completed by mid-1987.
45.       Distribution expansion planning is under the responsibility of
each distribution utility. More advanced utilities serving the largest
consumption centers generally have qualified staff and are able to meet
their planning responsibilities. The smaller utilities are less developed
and generally need to improve their planning capabilities. Also, there are
differences in planning and design and in equipment specification standards
between utilities which do not permit adequate nationwide integration and
coordination of operations.
Sector Finances
- Historic sector performance
46.       Through its lending operations (para. 53), the Bank has tried to
assist the Government in building up sound sector finances. While the four
loans to SEGBA and the loan to HIDRONOR included financial covenants
related only to these borrowers, the Yacyreta loan included covenants
designed to improve the finances of the national utilities (para. 36).
However, over the past several years, nominal rate increases were eroded by
inflation, and, as a consequence, sector utilities have not been able to
meet their operating expenses and debt service or to contribute
significantly to their investment programs. In addition, to make up for
the lack of liquidity, the utilities, particularly AyE and SEGBA, were
forced, between 1976-1983, to contract excessive foreign medium-term
debts. This policy, which coincided with periods of overvalued exchange
rates, led to the buildup of what is referred to in Argentina as
'Non-Corporate Debt' (NCD), to which about 40% of AyE's debt and 30% of
SEGBA's debt correspond. The policy of the present Government is to assume
the service of the utilities' NCD. The projections for the sector indicate
that this debt service would require Government contributions of US$620
million during 1986-1994.
47.       In 1982 and 1983, despite tariff increases and improvements in
operating income, the net internal cash generation of the sector was
negative because of the heavy debt service buildup and large contributions
from sector entities to the Treasury, mostly through a tax on capital.
Further deterioration took place subsequently, mainly due to the country's
economic problems. Consolidated operating losses ranged from -US$344.2
million in 1983 to -US$236 million in 1985. Results of 1984 and 1985



- 14 -
showed some improvement, principally because of lower fuel costs due to
increased hydro generation, the Government's suspension of taxes on
capital, and the implementation of the economic stabilization program in
June 1985.
- Electrical and Fuels Funds
48.       Historically, proceeds from the Electrical Funds (para. 33)
have been substantially below targeted figures because of:
(a) large inflation erosion caused by late payments; and
(b)  their retention by the utilities as compensation for the
Government's failure to provide the funds it is obliged to
contribute in accordance with their concession agreements.
The SE is taking actions which are expected to improve the timeliness and
rate of collection of the Electrical Funds. A new law provides for
sanctions to be applied to retention and late payment practices.
Additionally, SE has increased its control over the utilities. These
changes are already providing positive results and expected to increase the
collection rate from the present 50% to about 95%. The Fuels Funds do not
have collection problems because they are collected and paid on a timely
basis to SE by the state-owned oil and gas companies.
- Tariffs
49.       Tariff levels are very diverse throughout the country; average
residential consumer prices vary from 2.7 US cents/kwh and 10.0 US
cents/kwh. Industrial consumers, with an installed capacity of 100 kW, pay
between 3.2 US cents/kwh and 14.9 US cents/kwh; these are very large
differences for a largely interconnected system. Also, in most cases, the
lower residential than industrial rates do not correspond to their relative
economic costs. Another distortion comes from the provincial and municipal
taxes, applied over and above the rates, which, together with the 18% VAT
and the 15% for the Electrical Funds increase electricity bills by 33% to
68%. Although the Government has agreed that tariffs should reflect long
run marginal costs (LRMC) of supplying electricity, only SEGBA has begun to
apply this principle in its tariff structure, and, thus, there is a need
for more extensive action on this matter. To this effect, the Government
has agreed to: (a) prepare (para. 50(b)), by March 1987, an updated
nationwide study on the LREC of electric services in Argentina; and (b) use
the results of the study as the basis for a broader application of economic
principles to tariffs setting beginning in July 1988.
- Expected sector performance
50.       The Government, in consultation with the Bank, prepared, in March
1986, a program to improve sector finances. As a result, the Government
and the Bank agreed to amend the financial covenants of Loan 1761-AR to
reflect the agreed program. The following decisions were included:



- 15 -
(a) sector investments will be financed increasingly by sector cash
generation resulting from tariff adjustments and savings from
specific programs to reduce losses and increase the efficiency of
operations;
(b) the Government has agreed to raise electricity tariffs of the
national utilities between 12% and 30%, in real terms, until
mid-1987. It has also agreed to progressively raise the rates of
return of the utilities to 8% on revalued assets according to a
specified schedule resulting from self-financing ratio targets:
HIDRONOR would achieve this target in 1990 (compared with an
estimated 2.7% in 1985), SEGBA in 1992 (-5.7% in 1985), and AyE
in 1994 (-3.0% in 1985). Targets for tariff adjustments and
self-financing ratios would be set for each year in agreement
with the Bank, the first review of which would take place in
August 1986. The Government has already implemented two tariff
increases both well in advance of the agreed deadlines and in
line with the agreed targets; and
(c) to transfer the provincial and municipal taxes from the operating
expenses of the national utilities to the customer bills as
itemized tax surcharges. This would be the first step in a
strategy to prevent further tax increases and eventually
eliminate fiscal elements from the power tariff structure. As
these taxes provide a sizeable part of the income to finance some
of the provinces' budgets the elimination of the provincial
surcharges could only be achieved over the long term.
51.       The sector's current financial projections are based upon:
(a) a demand projection and a least cost investment program agreed
with the Bank;
(b) a program of tariff increases based upon the renegotiated
financial covenants of Loan 1761-AR (para. 50b);
(c) Treasury contributions of US$997 million between 1986 and 1994,
the period of heavy investments for Yacyreta, of which US$890
million are for AyE and US$107 million for SEGBA. The total
includes US$620 million of non-corporate debt service. The level
of this latter support in 1986 totals US$213 million; and
(d) a substantial improvement in the collection of electricity bills
(to an average of 60 days of sales from the 100 days for SEGBA
and 250 for AyE) and the Electrical Funds (up to 95% of the
nominal amounts due) (para. 48).
The estimated 1986-1994 consolidated projections of AyE, SEGBA, HIDRONOR
and YACYRETA (Annex IV-Attachment 1) indicate the following financing plan:



- 16 -
1986    1988    1991    1994  1986-1994
%X  Z  %                     Z
USES OF FUNDS
Total Investments                    94.6    97.9    95.7    93.6       94.9
Working Capital                       5.4      2.1     4.3     6.4       5.1
Total Uses                       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Gross sectoral cash generation       53.3    87.4   123.8   177.3    117.2
Less debt service (of estimated
corporate debt) a/                 72.2    85.8   109.9   132.0    104.9
Net sectoral generation             (24.0)    1.6    13.9    45.3       12.3
Fuels Fund contribution              62.8    37.1    36.5    38.8       40.7
Borrowings                           37.0    45.7    42.0    15.9       40.4
Government contributions             24.2    15.6      7.6       -       6.6
Total Sources                    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
Government payment of NCD  a/        32.5    16.0      4.3        -      9.9
Equivalent real rate of return b/    1.4%    3.8%    5.9%    8%
a/ Non-corporate Debt Service (para. 46).
b/ Including the proceeds from the Electrical Funds as part of earnings.
This program should ensure a satisfactory cash flow of the national utilities.
Their consolidated self-financing ratio would, however, remain below desirable
levels until the start of operations of YACYRETA in 1993, mainly because of:
(a) the high tax surcharges (para. 49); (b) repayment of the corporate debt
being larger than depreciation; and (c) the lumpiness of the YACYRETA
investment. Borrowings include the US$940 million needed to meet the foreign
financing gap for the civil works of the YACYRETA project. Since the 1979
assumption that this gap would be financed by commercial banks is no longer
valid, the Argentine Government has requested financing from both IDB and the
Bank.
52.       Financial projections of CTMSG and CNEA are not included in the
consolidated projections of the national utilities because, to some extent, they
can be considered exogenous to the sector. The binational (Argentina-Uruguay)
Salto Grande hydroelectric plant, in line with its by-laws, sets a financial
tariff to cover operating expenses and debt service.   As of December 1985,
CTMSG's average sale rate was equivalent to 3.0 US cents/kwh, and CTMSG's
reported rates of return in 1982, 1983 and 1984 were 8%, 13% and 14%
respectively. While there is limited data available on the Comision Nacional de
Energia Atomica (CNEA), it is known to have relied heavily upon Government
support during the last four years to close its financing gap. CNEA's average
bulk rate as of December 1985 was equivalent to 1.9 US cents/kwh. The
Government is now considering proposals to increase CNEA's rate to a level
similar to that of CTMSG. The intention is to allow CNEA's revenues to cover
100% of its operating and investment costs without any contribution from the



- 17 -
Electrical Funds, and to limit Government support to the payment of CNEA's debt
service. The implementation of this policy would enable CNEA to reach an 8Z
rate of return in 1987.
Bank Lending to the Sector
53.       Since 1962, the Bank has made a total of six loans to Argentina's
power sector; four of which were to SEGBA to help finance an oil-fired thermal
generation plant, as well as transmission, subtransmission, and distribution
equipment; one to HIDRONOR for the construction of the 1,200 MW El Chocon
hydroelectric power plant; and one to the Government to help finance the
Yacyreta hydro project. Project performance audit reports have concluded that,
while the physical objectives of the first five projects were largely met, the
financial objectives were not. The latest of these reports, on SEGBA IV,
indicates that the project was successful in meeting its technical and physical
objectives of providing facilities to meet the growing electricity demand of the
Greater Buenos Aires area. However, because of lower-than-expected demand and
also because of the poor financial situation of SEGBA, the project suffered a
completion delay of 4.5 years and a 40% increase in total costs. Moreover,
Government's failure to implement adequate tariff increases prevented SEGBA from
complying with its financial covenants except for a short time, and its
financial performance was poor. As expected at appraisal, the institutional
(except financial) performance of SEGBA was good.
54.       Execution of the Yacyreta project has undergone implementation
problems. Because of the country's economic and political difficulties, the
Government failed to meet the loan's financial covenants. Additionally, the
project was delayed by differences with the Bank over procurement issues, which
were resolved only shortly before the present Government took power. The
project's execution improved substantially after a new management reduced costs,
rescheduled works on the basis of reduced demand projections, and renegotiated
contracts with the civil works constructor and consultants. However, the
project still has a substantial financial gap (para. 51).
55.       The Bank and the Government have agreed on the need to address the key
sector issues in the framework of current and planned sector lending. Under the
amended provisions of the Yacyreta Project, the Government will be taking steps
to:
(a) restore financial soundness to the power sector (para. 51);
(b) ensure that electricity rates better reflect economic costs
(para. 49);
(c) improve the organizational structure and operating efficiency of the
national power companies (para. 40);
(d) develop a program for reducing distribution losses (para. 40); and
(e) improve coordination between the Government, the national utilities
and the provincial utilities (para. 57).



- 18 -
The proposed engineering project, albeit small, represents a significant
expansion in the Bank's involvement in the institutional development of the
power sector and would contribute to a more active dialogue among the Bank, the
Government and the provincial utilities regarding specific policy reforms needed
to improve the sector. The results of the studies to be carried out under this
project would first be implemented under a proposed future loan to SEGBA and,
subsequently, under possible lending to provincial utilities for distribution
investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
56.       The proposed project evolved from discussions with the Argentine
authorities regarding the high level of investments required for expanding
distribution networks and  the need to improve the quality and efficiency of
distri-bution services from a national perspective. Appraisal of the project was
carried out in December 1985, and negotiations took place over the period July 8
to July 18, 1986; the Argentine delegation was headed by Mr. Jaime Sujoy,
Subsecretary, Energy Secretariat.
Project Objectives
57.       The project seeks to remove bottlenecks which impede adequate sectoral
coordination and efficiency, thereby supporting the Government's goals in the
sector, as outlined in paras. 39 through 41. The project consists mainly of
studies which address the following areas of concern: (a) service standards and
high level of losses; (b) distribution planning criteria; (c) standards for
equipment and materials; and (d) operations and accounting systems.
Additionally, the proposed project would improve the coordination between the
Government and the national and the provincial utilities regarding the supply of
distribution services and train sector professionals and executives.
Project Description
58.       The proposed project consists of:
(a) four Distribution Studies. The first, concerning sectoral matters
would analyze the organization and regulations governing the
distribution utilities and make recommendations for improving their
efficiency. The second would assess the quality of service, the
impact of investment restrictions on the system's reliability, tne
level and origin of losses and recommend goals for improving
distribution reliability. The third, on engineering planning, would
design and implement methodologies for least-cost planning and
standards for materials and equipment and prepare a five year
rehabilitation, expansion and loss reduction plan for the provincial
utilities. Finally, the fourth, on operational planning, would cover
development and implementation of procedures for short-term planning
of works, inventory control and stores management;



- 19 -
(b) a metering program designed to gather and assess information on
characteristics of power demand in the major consumption centers for
purposes of load forecasting, system expansion planning, rate des'gn
and billing. This component would provide the data required for the
studies included in the project and envisages the creation of a
continuing inter-utility working group which would assure the sector
horizontal coordination.
(c) a training program which would include fellowships for study abroad
for professionals from the utilities, contracting of foreign experts
to provide training in Argentina, and arrangements with foreign
distribution utilities for providing on-the-job training.
The equipment to be purchased under the project would consist mainly of: (a) for
the distribution planning studies: computer hardware, software, and office
equipment; and (b) for the metering program portable load registering units for
installation in distribution networks, some measurement equipment for
substations, data processing equipment related to these meters and minicomputers
for data processing.
Project Costs and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated at US$21.5 million, of which
US$14.0 million is the foreign exchange component. The cost estimates,
calculated on the basis of May 1986 prices, exclude taxes and duties and include
a 10% physical contingency and a price escalation of: 1986-7.2%; 1987-6.8%;
1988-6.8%; 1989-7.0%; and 1990-7.1%, which are in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
60.       The proposed loan of US$14.0 million would finance all the foreign
exchange costs. Local costs would be financed by the Government and the
participating utilities. After project completion, results of the studies as
well as part of the equipment would be transferred to the participating
utilities (para. 61) as a contribution to the sector from the Government. Given
the small amount involved, this arrangement is acceptable.
Project Implementation
61.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of SE.  SE was
recently reorganized, by the creation of two new under-Secretariats (Planning
and Relations with Enterprises), to have a more active role in energy sector
planning and policy making. Additionally, important changes have been made to
its staff with the addition of a group of well-prepared and motivated
professionals to executive and advisory positions. However, the technical staff
of SE is limited -- 42 high level professionals handling a variety of
responsibilities -- and it would be difficult to increase permanent staff
because of the austerity measures of the administration. For this reason, SE
receives sup,)ort from the national utilities, especially SEGBA and AyE, for the
preparation of studies, such as updating of the electric sector expansion study,
the energy plan and the national interconnected transmission system planning
study (para. 44).



- 20 -
62.       An ad-hoc Executing Unit (EU) would be created in the SE to implement
the project with technical assistance and participation of selected staff from
the power utilities and with external support from individual consultants and
consulting firms. The national utilities participating in the project would be
SEGBA and AyE, and the provincial utilities would be DEBA (Province of Buenos
Aires), EPEC (Cordoba), DPESF (Santa Fe) and EMSE (Mendoza), which are the
country's largest distribution utilities. AyE would participate because of its
role of bulk supplier to most of the provincial utilities, its involvement in
regional subtransmission and distribution planning for the less developed
utilities and as a direct distribution utility in a few provinces. The
participating utilities have competent professional staff who are expected to
take direct roles in the execution of the project. This approach is desirable
in order to obtain the direct involvement of the utilities in the studies and
their successful implementation.
63.       In order to ensure adequate participation and collaboration of the
participating utilities, SE would enter into agreements with them, acceptable to
the Bank, which would spell out their responsibilities and obligations
regarding:
(a)    Project Staff.   The participant utilities would be directly involved
in the execution of the studies through professional staff which would
be made available for working in the EU. Salaries of these technical
staff would be borne by the corresponding utilities.
(b)    Transfer of equipment.  The utilities would receive, install and
maintain metering equipment, materials and computer equipment required
for the execution of the project. Costs associated with the
installation and operation of this equipment would be borne by the
corresponding utilities.
Cc)    Trairing program.  The utilities would be required to: (i) select, in
consultation with the SE qualified staff for training, (ii) grant such
staff leave with pay, (iii) take steps to retain trained staff to
ensure their contribution to project execution and follow-up, and (iv)
implement programs for the internal dissemination of pertinent
knowledge.
d)    Information.  The utilities would gather, retain and provide the data
obtained in the metering program and collaborate and participate in
the interpretation of the data.
e)    Results of the study.  The utilities would commit themselves to review
and, to the extent practicable, to implement and disseminate the
study's recommendations.
Execution of these agreements is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
64.       The SE has prepared a satisfactory report with details of the
arrangements made for organizing the EU, as well as the distribution of
responsibilities and tasks, the number and qualifications of its staff, and the



- 21 -
support needed from consultants. Establishment and staffing of the EU with
technical, administrative and accounting personnel with qualifications,
experience and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
65.       Consultant services would be required for the execution of the
studies. The metering program would require a highly specialized firm with
previous experience with similar programs. For the distribution studies, a firm
with a strong background in designing management information systems for power
utilities would be required. Contracts with foreign utilities of a size similar
to those of the Argentines and with strong experience in distribution planning
would also be considered for purposes of obtaining technical assistance and
on-the-job training. The Argentines have agreed to contract the principal
studies within four months after the loan becomes effective. Other consultant
studies will be contracted according to the agreed schedule of project
execution.
66.       Terms of reference for all the studies have been agreed upon, except
for special studies for AyE regarding optimization of its subtransmission
network, estimated to cost about US$100,000, for which the SE in consultation
with AyE, would produce terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, within six
months after effectiveness of the loan.
67.       In order to achieve a close follow-up on the execution of the training
program, the SE has agreed to: (a) furnish to the Bank, for approval, the
content and implementation schedule of the program; (b) select the staff of the
participant utilities in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank; and
(c) inform the Bank annually on the results of the previous year's program and
on the program for the following year.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       Goods to be financed by the proposed loan would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Due to
requirements of software compatibility and standardization, computer hardware
and software, for an aggregate value estimated at about US$800,000, would be
procured through limited international tendering. Consultant services would be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Consulting Services. The
proposed loan would finance 100% of foreign cost and 90% of local cost of
equipment; and 100% of the total cost of consulting services, and foreign
expenditures of the training program. Goods manufactured in Argentina would be
granted the standard margin of domestic preference. To provide adequate flow of
funds, a Special Account in the amount of US$1.5 million, representing four
months of average expenditures, would be opened at a bank acceptable to the Bank
for payment of eligible goods and services. The Special Account would be
replenished by the Bank upon: (a) receipt of statement of expenditures (SOE)
presented by the Borrower for (i) all expenditures for contracts or purchase
orders valued at US$10,000 or less, (ii) all expenditures for the training
program, and (iii) consultant services and equipment purchase expenditures
against contracts valued at US$25,000 or less, and (b) all other fully
documented disbursement applications for eligible goods and services. The
Government would establish and maintain appropriate project accounts for
expenditures financed under this loan. The Special Account, as well as other



- 22 -
accounts and supporting records pertaining to the services and goods financed
under the loan, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
69.       A six-year disbursement period has been estimated on the basis of
standard disbursement profiles for Bankwide technical assistance projects. The
project would be completed by December 31, 1991.
Benefits and Risks
70.       It is expected that the proposed loan would make an important
contribution to the power sector by assisting the Government in: (a) identifying
and addressing some key organizational and functional problems which impede the
coordinated and efficient development of distribution facilities, (b) providing
a consistent set of technical standards and procedures for developing and
designing distribution facilities, (c) evaluating and proposing ways of reducing
distribution losses, (d) providing standardized methods for operational
planning, and (e) training of personnel.
71.       The risks associated with the project mainly arise from the scarcity
of technical staff at SE, which might delay the execution of the studies. This
risk would be mitigated by the assignment of specialized consultants.
Additionally, the agreements to be signed between SE and the concerned utilities
would spell out the duties and responsibilities which would be undertaken by
those utilities to support the EU.   Furthermore, performance of the utilities
and compliance with the agreements would be monitored closely by supervision
missions.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed project.
Barber B. Conab'e
President
Attachments
August 14, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-23 -                               ANNEX I
r a   Lt c .^                          Page  1 of 6
ARGFIIIN              - SCIAL lIM0ItAt1IU  IIA StlbS 
AREttH'il                          iiRElc cK er CEUVI (,ImICIh  AYe.aKfl 'ir -
291W!sr                 (lE(sT RECLNT .SNrAtbT lJb l -
21110 i         IBIOULK  LSU           *Ii1!.Li Ud..n&X
19- lb     t,ialtbl EbTDIATId     LAT. lISSIC  4 CAR          IUJEUL
AMA CYISUAD SQ. 01)
TOTAL                            Z700.9     27ee.9      27e6.9
AGRICULTURAL                     1740.2     1777.0      17111.0
yP PER CAPITA CUN)                     .           .       2071.0 0175.9                             2144.3
(KILOGRAM DF OtL RQUIVALFINT)     806.0     1212.0      1415.0            993.6                   1119.8
POULhATIOH aD VrAL ShATISTS
POPULATION.?Uh-YIAR (THOUSANDS)  20616.0    2396L0    29627.0
URBAN POPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)      73.6       76.4       63.A              b7.7                     471.5
PtlFLIaTitlh PRtJECTtONS
PopOuLArtuN IU TEAR ZO0 (IL-)     ..         ..         10.5
STATIOIARY POPULATIONI (HILL)     ..         ..        54.0.
POrUlATIN ICIHIH                  ..         ..          1.5
POPULATION OENSITY
PER so. n.                        7.5        8.7        10.7              6.0                     84.7
PER SQ. M1. AGRI. LAND           11.3       13.5       16.1              91.1                    146.9
KOPUIATIUC AiE STRUCTUURE X)
(-14 YRS                        3J.7       29.1        3u.6             38.5                     31.2
a5-M us                          L3.6       o3.e       61.1              57.1                     61.5
65 ANLP ABOVE                     5.5        7.1         6.2              4.2                      7.2
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
rota L.6                                     1.5         1.0              2.&                      1.6
gnat                              3.0        2.1        2.1               3.6                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PEt TCWS)        23.0       22.9        24.3             30.9                     2J.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEIR TuuS)        6.7        9.4        9.0               8.0                      8.9
CROSS REPRODUCTIObN RATE            1.5        1.5         1.6              2.0                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCiPTORS. ANNUAL (T30OUS)        ..          .
USERS (Z OF HARRItD NONES)        ..         ..          ..              45.3
FOOMDS uNUTRITO
NDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CIAITA
(1969-71-100)                      90.0      101.0       116.0            19.6                     lU't.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQIUIRUSNTS)    124.0       126.0      121.0             113.2                   131.5
PROTETtS (GRAM PER DAY)         110.0      107.0       106.0             09.4                     92.4
OtF WHICH NtJl AltD PU15C       66.0       08.0        69.0 /c          34.2                     34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATl         4.6        3.2         1.0              4.6                      0.7
LIFE EXPECr. AT BlItTH (YEARS)     65.1       06.6        69.5             04.8                     t7.2
INFANT rDRT. RATE (PER 1tNl0W)     60.0       53.0       36.0              59.7                     53.3
UCCESau :a^Fi WATER (%POP)
TTAL                             41.3        5U.0       57.U Id          65.3                     7U.Z
URBAN                            58.9       69.0        05.0 Id          70.5                     ".4
RURAL                             9.6        12.0       17.0 7;          44.2                     57.t
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF P3FULATION)
TOTAL                            62.0       35.0        79.0 Id          56.3                     59.6
URBAN                             ..        67.0       II.O7             73.                      b.9
RllRAt                            *         7S.0        32.0 Id          25.5                     47.0
POPULATLO" PER PutIlsCLi          740.0      520.3       430.0 Ic        1909.7                   1070.6
MtP. PER NURSlNC PERSON           760.d /a   590.0         ..             606.2                    769.5
PCP. T1  hOSPTTAL BED
TOTAL                           110.0      180.0         .               362.0                   sa.3
IIRMA                           190.0 /I   200.0         ..             422.0                    201.9
ibJUAL                         4490.0 7V   100.          ..*            2710.7                  '.5:9.7
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL EE;         ..         ..          ..              27.5                     2u.O
AVEkluE t IZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             3.1                    ..
URBA                              3.5         ..
RUUAL                             '.3        ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOMS/R00(
roTAL                             1.4         1.4
URAN                              1.3        ..
RWJAL                             1.7         ..
PElHTMACE OF DUELLTIHS WDTH FLECT.
TOTAL                            69.2        76.0       87.0 Id
UtIA     *4.7                                ..          ..
RURAL                            16.6         ..         ..                 .



- 24 -                                            ARM I
T A b L  I A                                  PaRe  2  of  6
ARNIlTINA              - bOCAL INOICA             PTS OAA  SF.?
AlIITINA                            NEENCE GW  Fs oiiD AOVERS) 
6St                      (MSTSt AINENT tTATfl lb
I ,tCCNT         MIDDLE INCOS            1N1U1. I1CON
1960A.     29701. ESTIATE          LAT. AUt.RICA A CAR           U1015
ADJUSTED UNUOLtNUT RATIOS
PRLIARTe   TOTAL                  96.0       lub.O       119.14            106.7                     101.9
MALE                   96.0       106.0       120.0             106.5                     106.2
PENALE                 91.0       107.0       119.0             1114.6                     97.5
SCONDARYt TOTAL                   23.0        45.0       59.U               44.2                      57.5
HALE                   23.0        42.0        54.0              42.7                      b4.9
ncMA                   24.0        46.0        63.0              44.9                      30.U
VOCATIONAL (I OP SECNDARY)          50.3        5S.4       61.3               13.3                      21.0
PUPL-TEACNE RATIO
PRIMA                             22.0        19.0       20.0               19.9                      25.1
SECONDAL                           7.0         7.0        7.0 It            10.7                      19.1
PASSECUW  CUS/TIOUSAND POP          23.0       W.l          ..                40.0                      54.2
RADIO RECMIWRS/TITOUSAID POP       169.6       375.6      727.1              328.3                     170.7
TV RIMVPRS/THOUSAND POP             21.8       146.1       202.3             112.4                     149.3
NYSPAPI ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIUOIATION
PeR THOUSAND POPULATION           154.5       177.2       114.7              81.1                      97.0
CE112A ANNUAL ATTSNDANCEICAPITA      7.0         2.2         1.5               2.4                       2.7
lAWDR PoRCE
TOTAL lABOR FORCf (THOUS)        11133.0    12700.0    14589.0
FEKAU   (PERCENT)                 21.4        24.7       27.1               23.6                      36.3
MEI5CULTURE (PERCNT)              20.0        16.4        13.1 Ad           31.4                      40.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                35.9        32.1       34.0 I             24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             54.0        53.0        47.7              33.5                      43.1
HLEU                              84.0        61.0        75.0 /d           51.3                      55.1
FEMLE                             23.0        27.0       27.0 Rd            15.9                      31.4
ECOwlOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.7         0.7         1.0               1.3                       0.9
imm     ISmTAIOga
ncuorr O  PRIVATZE amE
RECEIVED M
HIGHEST 52 o0 HOUSEUOLDS          27.5
HICHEST 20S OF HOUSEHIOLDS        50.9        50.3        .                   ..
LnEST 202 OF HOUSEUOLDS            0.9         4.4
LOWEST CzE OF ROUSENOLDS          16.6        14.1                           ..
-E Ta -O
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (US PSI CAPITA)
0RI3N.                                                     .               286.3
RURAL                                           .          ..              185.3
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      ..              519.6
RURAL                               .          ..         ..               359.7
ESTIMATED POP. SELS ABSOLUTE
POVERT INCOME LEVEL (2)
RURAL                              ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T e s
la  The group averagee for each Indicator ar populatiou-etihted arituatic mane.  Cvanrae of cccatrile
mong the indietor dependa on avallablUty of data and ie not unlfon.
/b   Unleaa otherwise notod. "Dte for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 end 1961; 'Date for 1970" beteen
1969 end 1971; and data for "Mt Recent Eetite' betwen 1961 end 1993.
Ic  1977; Id 1980; /a 1962; If 1979.
JUNg, 1985



-25-                                        ANNEX I
Page  3 of 6
DImMONS OF SOCIAL INDC4TO11
Na: Althougb the daa ua draw. fro smni    elly judpd th nmet Auhoiwative and reliable it hould aso be uwed thal Lhe mna not btc intunasoaslWly
comparable bcaus of the lack of unadsrdiad definition and cones used by different countrie In collecting the dais. The daa arc. uoaelaels. ueseful to
dlcribe orde or magnitude, indicte trend, and characterize certain maor ditmnmma between countrieL
lIme referas  go ups an (I) the su-  country group or the subject coitry and (2i a counry group with somwat higher average inrome mban the cmutrt
goup or thebectscountry (cpt for High Incoswn0i Epwtenr group where 'Middk Income Nrtb Afri and Middle Eset isdcen bcauseofstrotn
ecioultural Sfiii  In the  ce gro p da t te naveraa are population weighte arithmtic -s  foreindicator a nd  n lv when maunsy
ofthemuntriniagroupha fsaorthat indicator.Slncthecovcgocountriesamngheindicaaodepenson the.avAitLlity.Adata ak nd a'bnil..,mn.
caution must beexaecired in rlting vpeoaaone indicteor to another .Thes averags are only useful in compaing the vlur of n mindicato ^ataline amont
the country and efrene group
AREA (thousand sq.kmn.)                                          Crab A     Re (pe( t  ,aJ  Numbcr of list births .Jicl ycdr
To..-Total surface are comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1903 data.
1960, 1970 and 1933 data.                                        O t DeaOh Ruse (per uhosund)--Ntumbet of deaths in the year
Agicadtuval- Estimate of agriculturl area ued temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19143 data.
permanently lor crops, pastures, market and kitchen prdens or to  GrC   Reprodactas Rse--Average number of daughtcrs a uionsaus
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1912 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if blic cxp.rienccs
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averdacs ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market pre  calulated by same aversion method as World           ).me  PlCNI-A CgPs , Amwal (sthsauisj-*-Annual nuns-
Rank Atlas (191143 basis); 1983 data.                            berofacceptors ol birth-fcontnsl devices underauspie of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignitc.      Fusy P iUssag--ses (pevu #f1iTnrd wmuaa-The pcn-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclar and geothennal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricitvy si kilograms of oil equivalent per capsta; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
somne countries contraceptive usage is measured ibr other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIMCS                                    groups.
Total Populain. Mid-Ye (th_smrf)--As of July 1:1960. 1970.       F-OOD AND NUTRITION
and 1933 data.
br PpA           rpe t of tat)--Ratio or urban to total          h rtufod d P            eCiirata (1969-71= fJ)--lndexofper
population; diffeent definitons of urban areas may afrect compar.  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
pbility of daie among countrios 1960o 1970a  and 1983 datao      excludes animnl feed and seed for agriculture. Food Lommodities
ability of daaaonontis16,190include primary conmnodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugarj
Popdoio Pojedsi.w                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 7000--The projection of population for 2000.  ectluded); they comprise ecreals, root crops. pulses. oil secds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with informnation o01  vegetabks, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livctock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates mortality razes. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is taued
international migration in the base year 1930. these paranmters  on national average producer price weighs.: IlYl-b%. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of geseralieed  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became st.tionarv.              hcr Cait  upply ofCanlis (peret safreqraenaj- ('.mrnptu
Stationary populamion-Is one in which agc- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies availabil in country
tafity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement lev  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I1. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities us:d in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses m distribution. Requirements tacit
consant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs foir normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution orpopulation. and allowing 10 pcrccnt for
rate to replacemnt lvel.                                         waste at household kwel 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Fopulrnion Momenrum- -is the tendency for population growth to   Per Cpita Supply f Proin (grn per bt,y)j - Protssin content of
continue beyond the time that replacemnt-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of fixod is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremnents for all countries established hv usnA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is mneasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year . given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be aninal protein. These standards are lower than those o f
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grants cf animal protein as an.
Pop-15mion Deiy                                                  average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World l ood
Per sg.km.--Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of totalarea; 1960. 1970. and 1983 ata.                   Per CapitaProteinrSkapyRr eAneammdiPue  Protcinsuxppl
Per sqiun agricdurau land-Computed as above for agricultural     nffood derived from animais and pulses in grans perday. 19ol-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1932 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
PApltio. Age Structure (percenrJ-Children (0- 14 years). work-   Cd (qes 1}4) Da  Rsrt e(pefrthosasd)-- Number of'deaths of
ingage(I5-64years),andretired(65yearsandovcraspercpntage         children aged 1-4 years per thousand chitdren in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. Ivr moct developing cuuntries data derived
lippuiauion Growth Rate (juercenr)-sosal--AnnuaI growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
tntal mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEAITH
Populaim  Growt Raue fpercesi)-wba--Annual growth rates           Life Exprw  at Brt h (years)--NnMsbtr 01 )c    a Antxvhnn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant woukl live if prevaslumg patterns of mortalitv for all people



- 26 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to dtay the same throughout itb life;  Pupd-euinher &a1u. - prianuorj. ,aud erondin 'rotal siudctns en-
1960, 1970 and 19B3 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lxfau Morslky Rae (per theusmndJ-Number of infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
belore reaching onc year of age per thousand live berth in a gven
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
AeUS  to S*   Wmr (pecu of A kg ,          td    bk,  _fd    Fbsege Cars (per shousaid population)-l'ssengcr cars com-
rnl-Nurnber of people (tolal, urban, and rural) with reasonable  priw motor cars seating kss than eight persons; excludes ambul-
acss to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rudo ReeWes (per thouad popufata)-AlI types or receivers
boreholes. spnngs and sunitry wels) a percentages of their re  ror radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excudes un-licensed recevers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meter frm a house may be consdered   registration of radio sets was in effect; data ftr recent years may
as being withln reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countnes abolished licensing.
reasonable acces would imply thAt the housewife or members ofrthe  TRC  ES(    asnpplrol-T   eevr o  racs
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportonate part of the day  to Rec-r1 bper teclivers horebroadcast
in fiething the family's water needs.                          to reeve  pubnt per thounand popuwtionr excludes unol' nsed TV
Acces to Excret< Dispal (percent ofpopa) -tot,  b                 d                               retatio. of TV s  wus
and rur- Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by  in
excret disposal as percentages of their respective populations.   *wspp  CirCalatie  (per tho   dpopuid- air)-Shows the aver-
Excret disposal may include the collection and dispusal, with or  age circulation of -daily gencral interest ne%vwpaper.- defined as a
without treatment, of human eacreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least tour times a week.
Poparim per Physician-lopulation divided by number of prac-    Cimi  Anud Attemnace per Cap   per Year -Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popuato_ per Nusing Perop-Fbpulation divided by number of      drive-in cnemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR  FORCE
Porn  pe4pr fdwlBPts   -ban.,mod rwa- Population          Toa Lb  Fcw (iAsait)-Econornically active persons. in-
totaL  urban. and Hpral) divided by t aeir respuaive number of  cluding arned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
tospital beds availabk in pubE c an d private. ged er rspeciae nd    students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitinns in
hospitals and reaabilitation p entein  Hospriat   Hre ersalahn i ents  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 19X3 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  &niak (per j-Feirnale labor foarv as pcicxntagc .f total LLbor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural iospitals.    force.
howevcr, include bealth and nedical centers not permanently staffed  AgriActre (pereentJ-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medicl assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960. 1970 and 19810
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a bmited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Inawry (perrear)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Adissasas per Hospiel Bed-Total number of adirissions to or    facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage ol total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Puicipan Rat (pffcetj-torl, ak,. adfeok  Participation
HOUSINI;                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, mak. and female labor force
Avrae She of Hosehol  (pers  per heWJeold)-tr, uban            as percentges or touL ,male and fhnalr populauon of all ages
audar  -A houschold consists ofagroupof individualswho share   respectively: 1960. 1970. and 19K3 data. These are based on ILO',
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reecting age-sex strauture of ibe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Nwnber of Person per Room-total, uran, ad rurl-        Economk Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under IS, and
Average number of persons per roum in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pernianent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCON1E DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwelgs-iwr Elecriciy-total. rban, and rua-       Peee  of Total Dispsable Ineme both in cash and hind)
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters ds percen-  Accruing to percenLile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4justed Enrollment Ratios                                     The fiollowing estimates are very apptltimate measures or poverty
Prvarv school - totia. tze and female-Gross total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all agcs at the primary leerl as pervcitages of  Estimaed Absolte Pvrty Income Leel USS per capi4a) --ub
respective prnmary school-age populations. While many countries  and rur--Absolutc poverty income level is that irscomc Lnel
koiisider priniary school age to be 64 I years. others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus csetaiial
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiretents is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sonic countries with universal  Estiated Reltre Poverty Income Leel (U.SS per capita)--armai
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent sitce some  and raral-Rual relative poverty) Airuc lc%cl i-, oei-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primiri-school  average per capita pesmnal income of the covntn: tJrbai klvel is
age                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male andfemie -Coinputc:1 as above:  living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of dpproved pri-  Estimaed PbopultiOn Belww AJslre Po"eray Jaconze LL bel (pfr-
marv instruction. provides general. vocational. or teacher training  eenrt-urban and rual- Percent cc populatitn (urhan dnd rir.il
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
ocational Enrolineni (percent of seconary) -VuLational institu-           Comparative Analy%is and Data Disv.in
tions include technicaL industrial. or other prograsn which operate    Fconomic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or is departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 27 -
ANE  I
Page 5 of 6
KM             Av 4b. ad   t SW      t A                                     Pu  t4
-                 1            ~~~~~~~~~~~tWlU4  1n  I"IN  lo   IQm                     1w    1<   1m
Nelimellt dk10   *td                                                 I       
_gtic    c9                                                            L       -.      -1.                         .2   366.3    6L0.3I
TWesof Truiw Effet                            395                                                                   .O      L.33     LB
ks  hesic Iatent                           ails                .1      1.7    -2.!    -J.l       3.             mN."6   am.,   ImL.
laprts olf    h .  in                       439                1.J    IL3    -27.3    -L4          .3             35.14    9.11    9.31
EZwtSof bur d         . 1W                 105?                L.I   13.1        4.2     4.4      Lb              IL36      4.4     34
Eapwb 5j.atud by Twouf Trab *low                               LI2   2LI    -5.3    -1.0          L9              13.94    IU.    IL3
s0m. so                                      4129                                                                  LO  -LIS  LS
Cin.a ptl                                                      4.5      3.5    -L.4    -1.9       2.4             1L5      19.5    79.45
l tabgt                                    372t               1.9      4.4   -1L3      -4..      4I              13.43    3L.    I3.
untic Snar                                 1233                L5       LI       3.2     0.6      5.5             17.41   26.35   2.3
letai   SwMn                                7691               LO       LI    -1.1      4.3       Lb              I29 IL11.I    11.16
1IN331 343                                   1391    392      193      In3      19      193n     I9               t13 Pgrcat d  ust
riAllUmof Iwrt U Idlar)
vt. lc.a.f.l                                9436  St          495    41        4        4430     7s5              366.    106.6   16l.
Cmital S_g                                269       ff       70 t      3       g       9W        %2              21.3    17.1    1.
3. t e weft. i                            47       I=       3674    32146   274       313       41 S5.3LI                  62    47.7
P    _trolm   cad,b                       o13l      472      4        517      43      29        3SI             37       30.      3.4
C i -u       I _ bso                      [in2      365      29       239    27        3o       179              17.3 6J             .
prt  4.3.b.)                                3141    437    73*         f10       9      77      12J21             16.0   366.II366.
PrNy Prodt.s                W05                    441L    535       ON       73115    s95     9l23              7.3    6.1          61
Kuwfcted  sof                             291    2104      3El    11t"       1393      6      3                 2L7      19.3    14.2
ftrd, Iu   Trdr  ai.icn                                       il9 s 16)
E mwrt Priu left                          319.4   226.0   24U.9   S.         23.    21.0    272.5
Iwt Price lofe                           29.3   292.2   2m9   27.    2DL6    29.                6
TWO of Trek lait                         16L7      9L2      L33    95L        34.     74.6    76
iIE AM  IN   111                        311711 l n 41d* W t 193 Ile rtJ & Em        d_rn                               IPA I of o1
rictwr                                      US       S3       362    916  IL7                                      17       15.4    35.5
Intry                                      25630    11U      267    207117    131                                  43.2    3t    32L.
S wic.                                     3430    21419   29         237      mg                                  43.2    47       5LI
W   at Factor Cut                         5MM11   5S1        57442   3S3   512                                    16.0    IL6    I.0
PKIC FIIWIM                                            aRctap OFdW
iCom  idtW  Plic lade
Irrt    tb                                  36.7    33.4   3J.7         3.5S
Cwrut  Ezgatwr                              431.7    te.3    33.0    t6.9    i..
Smug.                                       -7.6    -9.2    -4.3    -7.3        a.e
lmututs                                      9.3      7.         !      LI      7.U.
teuldiuhate                                -IL3    -37.0   -14.1   -16.1    *.e.
m , OB7 W3 1RICO                            fullief IF d A    tnt      rid,  Parild
Sm  me ai W"                                IL3       3.    1&   1193.4    i.e.
Init to Piic SKtdr                          I3.      S4.6   2323    994.9    i
rsat o Prietb Sde                           2L.2    AL6      290.      SL6    W.e
ISy.  ee iyin
I o W                                2.23  25L41  2LU3  2 
lOdne Prito r_
ISM7 a 3.331                             634    35413   1395    66493 370594
_al psrcuta     r_U  Mi
Sdgl. Price  rb.                            36.9   257.3   36.    573          446.
gm   uost to Piic hitar                    31.7       .2 L   536.    1 M        . e1.
b  Cruit to Private Sctor                  317.3   21.4   32LI   S43             a.e.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Fstiat. PVUI.tud
9m       19719       0     196      192       91       1934m       5        *     390"
Erwts lU.!. *3                               1714    9*411   107*       1135     952       9512    I93      1020      9*37    14513
lawt, hiScl.  I)D                          -5       -9       -U1I0    -1237    -739       -n       -103     -11       -79     -92
buwcI blow                                   24m*    33zR    92   230   2M    27   472  230   4
11t Fazt  Servic  3mm                        -031    -90    -15        -3M0      -179    -54J11   -7312   -1 41      -513    -5
ltl   'rl t Trmfu,                             II       35       23      -22        22       U         3        *       12        9
Ilume a rr.t Accut                           1SO      -37    -47*7    -4714   -227    -24*1    -22    -12*3    -2291            -a
DirKct 1.vtm t                                274      2U5      7K       927      257       to       2H       9*15     411      743
Nit Plic tO hTrIn      q                     -32       123     25311    70         12      1927     47       2120     3121      -2*2
llt Pivate ELT lwrmhml                       1323     3o                 140     22U9       *3     -243    -1942    -15         -120
on of Idf Rim                                                                              3113        0     10o 7     3*7     -473
S3wt Iwo Epita  Trrmwrtlm                   -1213    1[5    -373       40       -544       -93        7      -02      -22        177
Capital Tr_acKUm  m.ei.                       1"       431     -437      -41    -50*       -32*     -U0       731      15*  v 1
Chop  to   ha - - * inceae                  -133    -142       279*     27        *5       -244     -1%    -304          0     -IV
OT AO UM =1mE0
P*lic ULT Leta.                              2419    23*2      2W       23J    112         31         20     430
108                                         11       34*       27      303      10          0      1111       0
w  btmiatI rul                              23       323       44      321       1          2      52       lot
hlatwal                                      it       52      115        9       42        44        0        a
Ipligre                                     312       5       21*      UV7       to        34        0 
Fimucal I.tztim                            15*3      29      24       133       49       3779        S     421*
NIT MG KET S ICE
Total I0t bstu iaq ad Iewsu  11             1249     393      271Z    35*73    42         4     05     0     12 4514
Public 3.021                                 657      "if    1449       02      3342    3317*    392    4*1Il
Prinate  h41                                          907W I   2703   13*7    143         332      lo9" 9m     3
latumt Paym_ts Itat13 313 1250                        140*     n725     350      42       530       5        S1
_pyimts -, 333. 41                           205      21       29       3045       5        09      u5       2534
Tatal kbt Iis                                335      424*     47c  *39           97      11513    3342      7*9
kit  0 E9901 WU   ID
ltid  it Savice                              43.4    44.2      44.3    59.7    106.7    121.1       0.2      75.4
latamet Saelic                               IL2      14.1     2.2    2L3        51.7      57.0     5L.2    50.
AVEE  TOMl  OF PtUU       IT
latratill 51                                 11.3      L.       9.4     12.3       2.5    IL2       11.T     10.1
rtzatim  as I trlw  *w  NIl                  173.     2L2      ILI       13.2     14.1     14.1      Lt       5.3
D1RKKU IEI3  CI               (dnl a  U ayl                      I3
ftal Eitar     ht                                               49514
Tstl 1 I LI km                                              4531
I33                                                          133
Otl, bltllaeral                                            112
liltal 3hr
Ficaial 1ub                                               34253
to                                                        Z11U
9hart Two hIt                                                433
IIIIl EIPO                                   c_.r 31, ItS
111  t   lU                                            * U3
DD U   t n leoftdme3                                   1.2
13 hIt Saviu                                           1.71
1 UK 5Srviceu n Zdbb ofT N                             L2
I/ 1.3.4*, OFt tire
21  Ibcl.  WI.
31 kCrua.
41 Fra  1932 swb  iglcate, riii  d    ritiU n  f fhAT  et.
5I M as a         I ow    d  ri ad cwrmt p.
April J9,l3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEmENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986)
ARGENTINA
Amount les1      Undis-
Loan No. Year    Borrower           Purpose        Cancellations    bursed
(USS million)
Fully disbursed loans                                  662.4
1384      1977    Argentina         Highways           104.7         21.9
1463      1978    Banco Nacional    Industrial         100.0          1.3
de Desarrollo     Credit
1521      1978    Argentina         Grain Storage       87.0         65.9
1761      1979    Argentina         Yacyreta Power    210.0         174.0
1880      1980    Yacimientos       Oil and Gas         27.0          2.1
Petroliferos     Engineering
Fiscales
1905      1980    Argentina         Vocational          58.0         57.2
Training
S-020     1980    Argentina         Coal Exploration   10.0           2.8
2031      1981    Banco Nacional    Oil and Gas        100.0         79.7
de Desarrollo      Credit
2032      1981    Yacimientos       Refinery           200.0         38.3
Petroliferos       Conversion
Fiscales
2063      1981    Banco Nacional    Industrial         100.0         93.3
de Desarrollo      Credit II
2296      1983    Argentina         Highway            100.0         74.3
2592/1            Yacimientos       Gas Utilization   180.0         180.0
Petroliferos      and Technical
Fiscales          Asaistance
2461/1    1986    Argentina         Water Supply        60.0         60.0
Total                                      1,999.1
Of which has been repaid                     500.7
1,498.4
Amount sold               12.8
Of which has been repaid  12.8                  --
Total now held by Bank                     1,498.4
Total undisbursed                                         850.8
/1  These loans are not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
ARGENTINA
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligor                Type of Business      Loans  Equity  Total
1960       Acindar Industria           Steel Products         3.7      -      3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960       Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.  Pulp and Paper          3.0      -      3.0
1961       Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive              1.5     -      1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1962       PASA, Petroquimica          petrochemicals          3.0     -      3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/72    Celulosa Argentina, S.A.   Pulp and Paper          12.5     -     12.5
1969/75    Dalmine Siderca, S.A.       Steel Products        17.0      -     17.0
1969       Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and           5.0    2.0      7.0
Publishing
1971/73    Calera Avellaneda, S.A.    Coment                   5.5     -      5.5
1977/84/86 Alpargatas S.A.I.C.         Textiles & Fibres    28.4    2.0    30.4
1977       Soyex S.A.                  Soybean Processing   25.0       -     25.0
Plant
1978       Massuh, S.A.                Pulp and Paper         13.5    2.0    15.5
1978/      Juan Minetti, S.A.          Cement and            83.0      -     83.0
81/82/86                              Construction
materials
1978/      Ipako-Industrias            Chemicals and         20.0      -     20.0
79/82     Petroquimicas               Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A
1979/83/84 Alpesca S.A.                Fisheries               5.2    1.6     6.8
1984/86    Petroquimica Cuyo SAIC      Chemicals and         37.2    4.0    41.2
Petrochemicals
1986       Inversiones Industriales   Money and                 -     1.3     1.3
S.A. and Roberts Partici-  Capital Markets
paciones, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                                      263.5   12.9   276.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations                 156.2    2.0   158.2
Repayments and Sales
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                107.3   10.9   118.2
Total Undisbursed                                 44.3    4.4    48.7



- 31-                    ANNEX III
ARGENTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMEITARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare project: Appro3imately four months.
(b)    Project prepared by:  Bark staff with assistance of the
Government and concerned utilities.
(c)    First presentation to the Bank: June 1985.
(d)    Appraisal mission:  November/December 1985.
(e)    Completion of negotiations: July 18, 1986.
(f)   Planned date for effectiveness:  October 1986.
Section II - Special Bank Imlementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)    The concerned utilities (SEGBA, AyE, DEBA, NEEC,  =SA and DPBSF)
vill commit themselves to: receive and install metering and
computing equipment, participate in the training program and in the
studies'direction, diseminate information and implement the results
of the study (para. 63).
Additionally, conditions for effectiveness would be:
(b)   The SE will establish and staff the E.U. in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 64).
(c)   Execution of the SE's agreement with the beneficiaries (para. 63).



- 32                                                 ANEX IV
M%t                              PIET  iii.                                                              Attachment 1
Im coustit m lim Ita 5.103w
N9m    197    1       19   1996   191   1992   199    1994  l9H-9   1I1
-_                                                                                                -- _               . _
ew,tin  [mm  ii11117.    19. II..  11.4  23e.6  10.7   113.1  30.2   11.2   62.3    1.4
II  Meu   lc_Ig                       -129.   -96.9  -1.0  -33.    0.0   47.5    M&.  13.6  J1M             I3.1      21 .
Ipwmttam  haul  M1!   92.3   932    94.0   17.7  170.?  163L3   13.0  113.3  104.3   17.6
11aZztmg  1ulW_YICTI                     0.0    0.0    0.0   L.        0.0    0.0    1.0   51.3   In.0  223.3    3.1
It"   UwIM,S                        22.3  251.   261.1  2n.2  2m.0    7.2  296.3   02.L   07.3 246.3   39.6
-  -  -  -~~jZ2 -. -3 ;-L =" =6 ;- - 
Iron  intend Ci  _mwatlm               19.3  311.4  31.8    42   47.3    5.3  170.0   71.2  92.2   41.               5.7
Eluctrical FuftIAvEE                    79.o  116.1   *7.0  111.2  103.6  142.1  139.3  211.6  35.0  1301.3   20.1
Electncal FMu3NiIU10I                   1.1   32.5    3.9   44.3   u.1   13.3   29.3   ZL    43.0  ZI1.             4.1
lcrcal fPotrCTU                          17.3  113.4  320.3  122.   I44.9  153.2  10.0  11M.4   26.0  1063.4   1.e
_     f- _R6 _36 _                              'W _  _4- _s _    _    ._
smlu   ltrical Fads                  15i.   26.4   23.   273.3  29.   3.1  32.    35.1  37.1  29.3   41.4
Inc hcetvai Ci hvta.                   341.9  316.1  617.0  726.   71.9  9z.3  99.9  1113.0  13.3  1347.2  117.1
hit ,i,ce
g       "                              I0.    93.3   950   102.1  121.6  3L3.   141.9  145.3  146S  s9".3   ill
AX                                    U447.2  377.3  344.1  331.4  297.7  317.4   27.1   92.2  401.  3174.2    0.16
N11_                                   31.1   97.3  206.0  10.   122.2  11L22   IU    17.0    9.3  321.2   19 .4
rT i                                   9.6  309.3  I1U    19.3  21.1  26.4  232.4   1.3  2m.4  17M.1   27.2
rt  gt Serce                      726.3   77.4  717.4  7.2  71.6 - 1.S    2.            0    941.1  719L.   L14.1
Pim C            tuSec  11             212.9  17L .    t12.7   12.2   3e.0   32.      0.0                  1.        9.9
l*t      1Ca  Im u_     m             -163.0   5       12S    47.5   21.3  0Li3  176.2   12.3  3=2   770.5    12
Fuls Fwu(ftI                           252.2   74   6.    76.1   62.   106.2   91.1   17.6&  2210  I4.   17.3
VilsA  F luguIIhE                       44.6   36.6   45.7   3LI   47.7   15.    23.    2.3   3S    37.6    5.2
-Fads' FUlVChAII                       136.2  127.   15.1  1333  15.6  11S.3  15    97.9  23.3  113.3   1L2
=====                   _  _  __  __                   _   _   _   _
!:SeWal Fwi' hFu                    *11.0  240.9  21.2  265  261.4  27.   27.0              .   26.7  233.9        .7
ab Catnrih  WM    I                      0.0    0.0   20.0      0.0    1.0    0.O       .0    L.    0.0    1.0    0.6
h.t.,intraktsmglIyfe4Uh1               160.3  130.3   ILI    0.0    2.   1SI  -11.6   -LI    1.2  37.6    LO
Ehautaq smv 1SE3M,1'111                 71.2   31.9   47.9   W04    9.3   2.L    L.           0.     0.  hUS    4.*
hU.aamIiumtzFihulttfiSlE lIUI    33.9   93.5  103.5   15.2  219.4  11.6   17.1    1.5   0.   961.3   1.
.La.INandutI584    fIU                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.0    0.0    0.o    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.o
.!tiC  L" {stAMTA                       IL0    7.3   17.1   17.3  I.    10.1   11.3   11.7   11.4  1ILh3            1.
Porup Imifcafid  931A)                 100.4   19.0   90.0   35.    14.4   53LJ   44.0    7.3  -3.6  31.3    9.3
P,i;_        free 3uh'lI 21             20.2    0.e   64.0  163    235.   109.1    0.         0.    67.3  5150    9.0
27_-                __ _- _           -  -ii 
rita! Lam                           26 .7 41.   322.   4616  424 313.3  1324   13.    0762319 4.
TOTA Sll                               d5.5  67.0  76L7 71.   114.0  7452  570.   34.7  7n33   2.9   ".9
SaER~ A' utut                            0.0    0.0    0.0    L  0.0    6.0 9.0               L 0.0    0.9      0.00. .
iVf                                    123.3  156.5  134.5   40.9   12.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  46.           7.5
Ni al                                 153L    123.4  1124   214.3  131.7   4t.6   13.2    2.0    2.0   5.7    13.7
T*CIIT                                242.   246.4   21.1  319.5  2m3  232LI  129.1   96.7    9.6  1937.3   0o.?
r,td   quag                       I1M.&  &.7         0   375.2   4      23.5  147.3   96.-   91.-     i3.1    5.
Ftbre Iuestmts
UNA3                                  100.0   ML#.  100.0  100.0  100.0  160.0  300.0  206. .0  0e  906.0   14.4
11EE                                    0.0    0.0    1.3   35.1  175.1  22.5  214.5  232T   304.5  1311.1   21.8
"Iuul                                   0.o    0.5    1.4    1.3   1.   109.1   13.0          .5  1L0.3  419.3    1.7
r3CW.T                                  0.0    0.0    0.0    o.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    L.           L.0
Tetal FutOtt 100.0  100.5  10.    190.1  34.3   31.6    37.3    2.6   5ne.0  2.4   42.3
Total lavst_ti                         *19.1  626.1  91.2  763.   30.7  713.1   2.   539.1  *01.  STL.    94.9
lerkta  Couital (IS 13.2    1.9    5.9    7.7    L.0   -0.2    6.3    7.4    9.9   7M.4    1.2
lrtiLa  Caital(IAv)                     :7.9   30.5   1LS    IJ7  24.3   23.4   30.6    6.4   tLJ  214.5    3.4
otamg C.atmillCtET6I                    -6.3    1.3   -4.9   -3.6    0.9    3.         L.A   31.6   20.5   32.3       .3
Siltatel Wtrng CautUl                34.8   49.2   14.5   20.7        3     1      45.3   4.    4.3   3           3.3
TOTAL U1                               05.4  676O  705.7  736.5  134.0  7452  57.   314.7   73.4  R270.9  IOt.6
m m m m mmw~~                                smmu  mommm  
WdLng l esfICit)                          .          .o  .        0      0      .0     .o      .6     .0      .0    0.e
kccledit  Surlu  leficitl                 .0    Q.1    0.1    0.1    9.1    0.1    0.1    0.1         .0
late ban                              6I1.3  9401.9  65M   " Y 99.2 1064.6 10629.7 11'346  l'461
Rate of  tw ur 1 lml SI                 -'0.3    0.6    1.12    I.3S   2.0L   3.02   3.42   4.02   5.0
lats of  eturn Irea) 41                  1.4Z   3.12    3.03    4.72   3.02   5.92    a.3o    7.12   5.0
1I                  The _cnt sm   9  19wI, carroimi  to the rcwuiU  St a           ice at AEE f. 191.
21 a curt M M  to fimamn remtel fro tIw look a  tu  IN IJ mt glmN   ullSm.
Jl Operating :nc.irate  iwi
41 (ulwa,rg  wcUamncul Fuusilrat bkm
113-Pu   Eapeung Lam)(Rn1/1731W



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
ARG3NTINA
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
COST ESTIMATE
-------US$ Thousand-------
Local    Foreign    Total
ACTIVITIES                                    Costs      Costs      Costs
A. DISTRIBUTION STUPIES
Sectoral matters                                126        116        242
Quality of service                              936        234     1,170
Engineering studies                           2,256      2,480     4,736
Operational plan.                               264        440       704
Supervision                                                 80        80
Total Distribution Studies:                   3,582      3,350     6,932
B. N$TERING PROGRAM
Seminar/sample design                           186        234       420
Equip. specs. and acquisition                    60         32        92
Installation                                    350                  350
Campaign                                        940          5       945
interpretation                                  216        171       387
Reports                                          18         80         98
Total Metering Program:                       1,770        522     2,292
C. EQUIPMENT
Metering
- meters                                                 2,200     2,200
- S.E. equip.                                            1,500      1,500
- readers                                                  180        180
Computer and Miscellaneous
- for metering program                                     500       500
- for engeneering                                          600       600
- for the E. U.                                            100       100
- administrative equipment                                 100        100
Total Equipment:                                         5,180      5,180
D.  TRAINING                                        200      1,130      1,330
SUB-TOTAL:                                        5,552     10,182    15,734
CONTINGENCIES:                                      535      1,018      1,553
PRICE CONTINGENCIES:                              1,413      2,800      4,213
TOTAL                                         7,500      14,000   21,500



*    PARAGAUAYMGUA
s    ,3          /            X   8                  4                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A fi A GU A Y  
II    ARGENTINA        ll|/                                                                                                                   | 
4  4 >   t   1   ! f ! _                                        / A                            'I f
a it  /                         ti                                          V map       N,           -    ' ; ,
-C!~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-t                                                                                                                        sunci6n   J  ^      ;w
ARGENT INA,.s!, ,;; .........   (           \/   -           (           OTUMPA             A  C     A   R  A 
TN nw ht6tisbow |rw b                                    Ey CHtrRESISTEntI !i:jNE
Pre^r ^4 WN AwA' Oi em t                                             A N T i A C, ' C) 4_.
t" * &lr#t dA& *A )wJVl                                                 1   _                                      YA C  R t^             w-
o t  mg d
aIbsmat dexdi.eritJ4 \ ,2 X l - - I . . ; -1: ff I/ r~~~~~~~~~X                       5
ft on.1.w  of 1/
fudivi~ ~ ~ )nd   .z..w\ 1w\   ' I i. .                                                        iI.)                    -
|   t  S ,\ 31  %   /       \  05;   ;i;tS             0       X      4      $          X                B R ^ Z~~~~~~COR    I L rES
of.iiadfuuto,
awwome of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~YCYEA
n I C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
UJCA bW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~i*  no  it~~~~~~~~BRA     
30~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A.M



-oeoo                                                                                                            4J0
~AN   RAFAE                                                 U     R
TA                                              0~~~~~~~GU  
AIIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$ A N   A N I O N I O   O f S te  p          A~~ ~~~~~~~~  * ~ ~ f~ e v d e
(AlC"p           Y!    AWrO                                                  ENGINEEI?INGPRiOJECT
'MAfMMS,V  CC e'sl on3   Area   ofpr n a
PUERTO   4M  I                                         L A   okv.Ia
MfajorSusain
-  Rivera
NVanai Pti
8iIOaI bUnglriea
Ss.~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



i
I



