Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8583
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
COMBINED REPORT FOR THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1653-IND)
AND
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1972-IND)
APRIL 27, 1990
Infrastructure Division
Technical Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authnorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
At Appraisal US$1        R Rp 625 (both loans)
Rp 100     US$0.16
Annual Average Values
Value to November 15. 1978s US$1-Rp. 425
1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987
623   627   632   661   909   1026  1111  1283  1644
As of April 30, 1988: US$1 - Rp. 1669
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                        =  39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                   -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)                -  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                    35.3 cubic teet (cu ft)
1 hectare (ha)                     -  10,000 square meters (m2 or 2.47 acres)
1 square kilometer (km2)           =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter per capita per day (lcd) =  0.26 US gallons per capita per day (gcd)
ABBREVIATIONS
1DB             - Asian Development Bank
AGRARIA (DGA)  -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs (Ministry of Interior)
now transfexred to BPN
BAKOSURTANAL   -  The National Surveying and Mapping Coordination Board
BAPPENAS        -  National Planning Agency
BI              -  Bank Indonesia
BTDC            -  Bali Tourism Development Corporation
3PN             -  Badan Pertanahan Negara; National Land Agency. :Eplacing DG
Agraria
BTN             -  Bank Tabungan Negara; National Savings Bank
CHa             -  Community Health workers
Cipta Karya    -  Directorate General of Human Settlements (DGHS) - Ministry of
Public Works
DRI             -  Special Capital Province of Jakarta
DIP             - Annual Project Budget Allocation Document of GOI
DRIP            -  Drainage Improvement Program
Dalam Negeri   - Ministry of Home Affairs
GOI             - Government of Indonesia
INPRES          -  National Subsidy for Local Government Development Projects
IPEDA           -  National Property Tax (now changed to PBB)
IUIDP           -  Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
KIP             -  Kampung (Neighborhood) Improvement Program
PBB             -  Pajak Bumi & Bangunan; 1986 Property Tax (Replacing IPEDA)
PDAM            -  Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum (local water enterprise)
PERUMNAS        -  National Urban Development Corporation
PLN             -  National Electric Company
PPBS            -  Planning. Programming, Budgeting System
PUOD            -  Directorate General of Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy (Ministry of Home Affairs)
Repelita I      -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74)
Repelita II    -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-79)
Repelita III   -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979-84)
Repelita IV    -  Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984-89)
Repelita V      -  Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1989-94)
SWIP            -  Solid Waste Improvement Program
UNCHS           -  United Nations Center for Human Settlements (HABITAT)
UNEP            -  United Nations Environmental Program



FOR OMCLIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngton. DC 20433
USA
Office of OMectwmcul
OpWOtNV Evauatittn
April 27, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia -
Third and Fourth Urban Development Projects
(Loans 1653-IND and 1972-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Third and Fourth Urban Development
Projects (Loans 1653-IND and 1972-IND)* prepared by the Asia Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FO  Of IAL UU OL
e                                                6NDONESIA
THIRD AND FOUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (LOAN 1653.1ND ND 1972-SAD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................      ...........................     l
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............... i.
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW
Section It Project Identity ........................g....... .           1
Section 2:  Background .       .................. . . .  ..........  ..  1
Section 3:  Project Objectives and Description          ................  4
Section 4:  Project Design and Organization          ....................  6
Section 5s  Project Implementation .............................         9
Section 6t Project Results .......................#.o...........    Is
Section 7: Project Sustainability .............        ................    15
Section 8t Bank Performance ........ .... ............... ......    17
Section 9: Borrower Performance ..* .............................    18
Section 10:  Project Relationships ...........       ..................    19
Section 11:  Consulting Services    ...............................    20
Section 12:  Project Documentation and Data ....................        21
PART IT:  BORROWER'S EVALUATION
Section A:  Main Findings and Lessons Learned          ..................    22
Section Bs  Summary of Bank role and Performance         1...............  1
PART IIIs PROJECT PROFILE
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits          3....................  3
Table 2:  Project Timetable Summary .........        ...................    36
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disburmements ...    37
Table 4:  Project Implementation Indicators         8....................    3
Table 5S PZoJeCt COst8 'SmE&mar, .............g ,              ,gOgeOggg    46
Table 6s  Project Results Sumary ......        ........................  49
Table 7:  Compliance With Loan Covenants ...         ....................    63
Table 8t  Staff Inputs *e.....e...o....e..........e...            ..... 67
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by mecipients onlyin the p rJrm
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak auioation.
Thsdcmnths etice  itibto  n  ayb  sdbyrcpet ol nls-sfgse



INDONESIA
THIRD AND FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (LOANS 1653-IND AND 1972-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This document presents a combined Project Completion Report (PCR)
for the Third and Fourth Urban Development Projects in Indonesia, referenced
as Urban III and Urban IV for convenience. Basic descriptive data for these
two operations include:
Urban III                  Urban IV
Loan No.                          1653-IND                  1972-IND
Loan Amount                       $54,000,000                $43,000,000
Board Approval Date               January 16, 1979          April 21, 1981
Loan Completion Date              March 31, 1987            February 28, 1988
Completion Delays                 3.25 Years                2.17 Years
Z of Loan Disbursed               95.3T                     98.7?
Final Disbursement Date           June 26, 1987             April 15, 1988
This PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Asia
Region Technical Department (ASTIN) in close consultation with the
Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department V (ASSIN) for
operational evaluations, and the Borrower represented primarily by the
Directorate General of Human Settlements of the GOI Ministry of Public Works
(see Part II for summary of Borrower's evaluation). However, the Borrower has
yet to review Parts I and III of this PCR. The revised guidelines for PCR
preparation dated November 4, 1988 have been applied, insofar as possible.
Preparation of this PCR was discussed with GOI representatives
during the supervision mission in June 1987. GOI staff and consultants
initiated preparation of the Borrower's Evaluation (Part II) during the 4th
Quarter of 1987. The final Urban IV supervision mission in February 1988
provided additional guidance to these efforts, and additional discussions with
GOI were conducted during urban sector missions in June 1988, November 1988
and March 1989. This report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Reports, Loan AgrRempnts, Runprvision reports. cornmltant outtuts,
correspondence between the Bank and GOI, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
INDONESIA
THIRD AND FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (LOANS 1653-IND AND 1972-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOiT
Evaluation Summary
The two operations reviewed, hereinafter referenced as Urban III and
Urban IV, jointly encompass the strategic expansion of the GOI urban program
from initial efforts in Jakarta and Surabaya to nine other urban centers,
mark'i-g the origins of GOI national urbian prograimiug. The key elements of
bcth positive and negative experience and initiation of sector policy dialogue
during projects has formed much of the basis for the current GOI national
program of integrated urban infrastructure development (IUIDP) and sector
policy initiatives supported by the Housing Sector Loan (2725-IND) and Urban
Sector Loan (2816-IND), which are arguably the most comprehensive and
anbitions such efforts in Asia. 1/
Both projects were successful in attaining or exceeding all physical
targets and stated impact/development objectives. (See Sections 5 and 6.) In
brief, these included:
- improved living environment for more than 2 million urban
residents, more than 702 of whom had incomes below poverty level;
- major upgrading of citywide drainage and/or solid waste
collection services in Jakarta, Surabaya and Denpasar (Bali);
- new housing for nearly 100,000 persons (more than 18,000 units),
the majority poor;
- aerial photography and mapping of 99 cities throughout Indonesia
(the largest such program ever financed by the Bank);
- demonstration of local government capacities to manage and
deliver urban programs with only limited support by GOI central
agencies; and
-  substantial strengthening of key urban sector institutions and
municipal revenues.
The estimated rates of return achieved, ranging from 152 to more
than 100?, clearly justify the aggressive investment strategy pursued by GOI
1/ Readers seeking further information regarding the Indonesia urban
operations may also wish to review recent case studies of IUIDP, the Urban
Sector Loan, and Housing Sector Loan appearing in Urban Lending in the
Asia Region: Issues and Opportunities; Infrastructure Division,
Technical Department, Asia Region, World Bank; April 12, 1989.



- iii -
and the Bank in this sector, although individual subprojects were frequently
designed and constructed to sub-optimal standards and/or without needed
functional coordination (see Section 6).
The significance of these projects must also be understood for
the issues/problems arising during their preparation and implementation, the
resolution of which has and will continue to shape GOI-Bank urban operations.
The following sections of this PCR discuss these key matters in somewhat more
depth, but the most basic issues include:
- Operations and Maintenance (0/M) budgets and institutional
capacities are woefully inadequate at all levels and for all
types of activities; this poses a serious threat to sustaining
the benefits of project investments and requires immediate,
large-scale response (functional requirements and policy reform
options are now being explored in Urban V and Urban Sector Loan
programs).
- Coordinated planning and programming of urban infrastructure and
service systems is essential to pr.-viding functional
infrasttacture throughout urban areas, taking full account of
macro-system capacities and linkr-e relationships to avoid
drainage, water supply, sanitation, traffic and other problems
encountered. (This was key to development of IUIDP concept by
GOI.).
- Improved local resource mobilization is the only viable basis for
GOI sustaining urban development programs given the large
fluctuation in central government resources available .or the
sector in recent years; approaches piloted under these projects
are now being implemented on national scale.
- Decentralization of urban development program implementation
responsibilities was proven to be viable strategy, but
requirements for strengthening municipal management, technical
manpower and operational systems were also clearly demonstrated.
(Various aspects being addressed in Urban V, Urban Sector and
Housing Sector Loans, as well as additional operations under
preparation focused on local and provincial institutions).
The results of these projects have also substantially affected
the operational patterns and philosophy of Bank involvement in the urban
sector in Indonesia. The level of staff inputs (combined total of more than
750 staff weeks) is simply not sustainable for future operations, yet GOI's
evelustinn (nee Part TT) end this review i-ndicate that addA4t4erat eff^rts
particularly during supervision would have been quite beneficial. This leads
inevitably to the conclusion that the preparation and packaging of these
projects were inappropriate, in that project locations and targeting were too
scattered to allow efficient and effective supervision, ot that appraisal may
have been premature. Yet when compared to the huge urban investment backlog
and sector capacity problems, these operations may rightly be judged as too
narrow and tentative to have s-ubstantial impact on the needs of nearly 50



_ iv -
milli.on urban residents in 301 local governments across Indonesia. Perhaps
the most constructive interpretation is to acknowledge that these were
*        necessary transitional projects toward achieving consensus with GOI (and
within the Bank) for establishing the current sector action program focused
heavily on developing GOI intermediary capacities. The absolute necessity of
establishing financial and program management intermediary arrangements to
efficiently and effectively pursue urban operations in Indonesia is the
principal operational finding of this review. This is already reflected in
the current preparation of urban projects (e.g., Jakarta and East Java-Bali)
where establishment of such capacities is necessitating delays in preparation
but should eventually support meaningful and effective levels of Bank
operations in the future.



INDONESIA
THIRD AND FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (LOANS 16533-IND AND 1972-IND)
Proiect Completion Report
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Urban III                     Urban IV
- Project Name   : Third Urban Development    Fourth Urban Development
- Loan Number    : 1653-IND                     1972-IND
- RVP Unit       : Asia                         Asia
- Country        : Indonesia                    Indonesia
- Sector         : Urban                        Urban
-Subsector(s)   : Infrastructure                Infrastructure and Shelter
-Project Cities : Jakarta, Surabaya,            Denpasar, Pedang, Palembang,
Semarang, Surakarta and    Banjarnmasin. Samarinda, and
Ujung Pandang              Pontianak housing sites in
Jambi, Semarang and Jogjakarta,
and mapping of 100 cities.
- Loan Amount    : $54,000,000                  $43,000,000
- Disbursement
Totals        : $51,468,464                  $42,444,12.8
2. BACKGROUND
1.1      Indonesia is the world's fifth most populous country with a total
population currently estimated at 175 million persons, of which approximately
28? or nearly 50 million reside in urban areas. With an annual urban growth
rate of 4? currently anticipated to continue or accelerate, the conservative
estimates of urban population for the year 2000 indicate at least 76 million
urban residents, or 362 of Indonesia's total population. Currently about 25S
of urban families have incomes below the relative poverty level ($2681capita
in 1985). Indonesia's urban population is reasonably well-distributed
spatially, occupyinS four metropolitan areas of 1 million or more inhabitants
of which two, Jakarta and Surabaya were included in the Urban III Project.
There are also about 50 major cities of more than 100,000 residents including
the other 9 cities covered in these projects, and about 350 moderately sized
urban areas throughout the nation. Indonesia's cities and towns are important
social and economic centers, providing a growing range of services and the
economic requirements for growth of manufacturing and commerce as well as
markets for agriculture. Urban employment has grown at about 4.7? per year or
almost twice the national rate, providing the best hope for-absorption of
surplus rural labor.
1.2      Due to the extraordinary resource requirements for providing even
basic urban services to urban populations which are growing by approximately



- 2 -
2.2 million persons per year, GOI has adopted a rather narrow definition of
the "urban sector" limited to housing and basic infrastructure and services
including water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, vehicular and
pedestrian access, drainage/flood protection, and selected basic health
clinics and primary school ficilities (to the exclusion of energy,
telecommunications and other national systems and services). The World Bank
1984 Urban Services Sector Report (4800-IND) estimated that total expenditures
by all levels of government for even this bas0c urban sector approach,
excluding the housing component, should be about Rp. 1.5 trillion per year
(1988 prices) to meet reasonable growth needs and overcome service demand
backlogs at minimal levels of service; while the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
has devoted increasing shares of recent 5-Year Development Plans (Repelita) to
urban infrastructure investments, this is more than double the investment
level attained during the just completed Repelita IV (1984-89). However,
during the last two years, with the support of the Urban Sector Loan, total
GOI urban infrastructure expenditures exceeded Rp 1 trillion annually, and is
programmed for even larger expenditures during Repelita V.
1.3      A closely related set of issues and problems is that Indonesia's
unitary and highly centralized national government has been slow to encourage
local governments to assume meaningful responsibility for their own growth and
development. Three quarters of urban infrastructure expenditure has
traditionally been financed by the central government, much of it through
earmarked grants under the control of central Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
directorates. Integration of infrastructure expenditure programming and
implementation has thus been weak at the field level, and there has been
inadequate attention to the development of local government revenue,
management and institutions. Central-local funds transfers comprise nearly
one-third of the GOI central government budget; this offers the potential for
major fiscal impact of improved local government investment efficiency and
local resource mobilization, but such potential is largely unrealized to
date. The two projects revieved herein represent the init:-1 GOI-Bank
attempts to develop urban projects outside Jakarta and Surabaya, and
introduced the system of passing Bank capital funds to local governments
through subsidiary loans agreements with the local government's being directly
responsible for project management. The degree of success achieved in these
projects represented a strategic turning point in the development of the
Indonesia urban sector.
Urban Initiatives of Repelita I-IV (Five-Year Development Plans: 1969-89)
1.4      The only notable urban initiative undertaken during Repelita I was
the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP), begun by the GOI and the City of
Jakarta in 1969, for upgrading urban neighborhood infrastructure and services
focused on access to water supply and sanitation, and public health.  Tne KuP
approach emphasizes providing basic "minimum" service standards so that
coverage can be maximized to include even the poorest neighborhoods in
networks of essential services. Bank support for the KIP initiative was the
basis for the first urban project in 1974 (Jakarta Urban Development 1040-
IND). The success of the KIP approach in Jakarta was acknowledged by the
presentation of the 1983 Aga Khan Foundation international award for
excellence in development programs. During Repelita II, the KIP approach was



-3-
extended to other major urban areas, including Surabaya under the second Urban
Project.
1.5      With the support of the Baaik's first urban project, at the beginning
of Repelita II, a ministerial-level policy committee, the National Housing
Board, wias established to set overall direction for low-cost housing.
PERUMNAS (the National Urban Development Corporation) was also established to
const.-uct low- and moderate-income housing (including sites and services) and
Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN) was assigned responsibility for mortgage
financing.  A target of constructing 70,000 housing units by PERUMNAS (502 to
be sites and services) ^or the income group between the 20th to the 70th
percentile was established and met for Repelita II.
1.6      Building on the policy and institutional base established during
Repelita II, expanded objectives and programs were established for Repelita
III. PERUMNAS was to build 120,000 units (502 sites and services) in 80
cities during Repelita III for the same target income group as in Repelita
II. BTN was to provide mortgage financing for this program as well as for an
additional 30,000 privately developed units. While these programs represented
an impressive expansion in coverage, they fell considerably short of PERUMNAS'
estimate of a need for 950,000 units in 80 target cities during Repelita III.
1.7      A program to extend KIP to 200 cities was targeted in the Repelita
III objectives to be implemented by the Directorate General of Human
Settlements (DGHS) in the Ministry of Public works. Local governments, under
the administrative control of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) were
encouraged to develop and implement programs for kampung improvement with
grants and technical assistance from DGHS. To encourage local participation,
GOI provided grants to local governments to enable them to start KIP units and
programs aimed at achieving the lowest standards. However, if a city agreed
to add its own resources to undertake an expanded program, Cipta Karya
extended grants to meet half the costs of the larger program. For water
supply, the central government also provided grants to the local governments,
to provide 60 liters per capita per day for 60X of the projected 1985
population, but effectively limited these projects to source development and
major transmission works, leaving distribution network development to KIP and
other local initiatives (if any).
1.8      Both of the projects reviewed herein were prepared within the
Repelita III policy context, with implementation completed during Repelita IV
under the direction of DGHS as principal executing agency. Guided by results
achieved in the eleven project cities (and other parallel programs supported
by ADB and other donors), during the early years of Repelita IV, DGHS led the
evolution of improved investment programming techniques for urban
infrastructure. This effort became one of the key elements of the 1987 Urban
Sector Policy Statement and now a major feature of the GOI Repelita V
programme. These techniques, summarized under what is now known as the
"Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programme (IUIDP)", require that
all new capital investments in urban infrastructure be proposed within a
framework of appropriate local priorities, O/M commitments, local revenue
mobilization and cost recovery initiatives, and local institutional



- 4 -
strengthening in meeting local urban services needs while rationalizing
demands for central grants/subsidies.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Third Urban Development Proiect
1.9      The Urban T'- Project was intended to continue GOI's initiative in
Rampung improveme-    A had two principal objectives.  First, it was intended
to continue support for providing essential services to low-income
neighborhoods (campungs) in Jakarta and Surabaya, and to extend the program to
three additional secondary cities (Ujung Pandang, Sema-ang anu Surakarta).
Second, the scope of the project was expanded in Jakarta and Surabaya (wh.ere
the RIP concept was already well-estab,lished) to include other investments
aimed at improving general public health, such as problems of solid waste
management and drainage, as well as support for community health services
based on pilot programs under the Bank's Urban II Project. Principal project
components included:
(a)  Kampung ImDrovement Proaram.  Basic infrastructure including roads,
footpaths, dtainage, water supply, sanitation, solid waste
management, schools and health facilities, in low-income, unserviced
kampung areas of about 2,185 ha benefitt!ng an estimated total of
765,000 persons in the five Project Cities. KIP priority lists and
design standards for the various services were.agreed with each of
the local governments. As in the preceding projects, the upgrading
was carried out in-situ, with only minimum disturbance of the
existing dwellings. In Jakarta, water and sanitation services were
to be provided to an additional 2,400 ha of high-density kampungs
(1.4 million persons), which were upgraded during Repelita I
(1969-74) to bring their level oL improvement to current RIP
standards.
(b) Solid Waste Management, to serve 1.5 million residents in Jakarta and
500,00 in Surabaya. The programs were intended to alleviate the
critical environmental pollution problem in these cities by
initiatinb regular programs of drain cleaning and door-to-door
collection o:.- solid waste, particul-.rly in the low-income kampungs.
The project provided the necessary infrastructure for the collection.
transport and sanitary disposal of the wastes, including a pilot
project for sanitary landfill operations.
(c) Drainage Improvements: Surabaya. The dredging and desilting of
about 9 km of main drainage canals, and rehabilitation of about 4
existing pumping stations, in accordance with Surabaya's drainage and
flood control master plan to alleviate flooding in an estimated 1,000
ha of densely populated areas of the city, including many of the RIP
sites.



-5-
(d) Community Health Services. Training, equipment and materials for
about 500 volunteer community workers (CHW) in Jakarta and about 275
in Surabaya. Each CHW was to serve 100-200 families in the KIP
areas, focusing on environmental hygiene, maternal and child health
care, first aid treatment, immunization and nutrition education,
family planning, and health referral services.
(e) Land Registration: Surabaya. Assistance to carry out a five-year
program of land rights registration throughout the city, as less than
102 of the land rights in Surabaya had been registered in 1978.
(f) Technical Assistance and Training. About 500 man-months of foreign
and 450 man-months of local consultants' services were provided to
assist in: (a) project planning, design and implementation; (b)
solid wastes management; (c) training of staff and implementation of
a valuation system in Surabaya; (d) implementation of a planning,
programming and budgeting system for the city of Surabaya; (e)
management assistance to Cipta Karya; and (f) preparation of future
urban development projects.
Fourth Urban Development Proiect
1.10     The Urban IV Project had three principal objectives.  First, to
support GOI's efforts to implement nationwide programs of kampung improvement
and housing sites and services, by extending these programs to six provincial
capital cities (Palembang, Padang, Banjarmasin, Samarinda, Pontianak, and
Denpasar). Selected city-wide investments in solid waste collection and
drainage were also included in the project. Second, to secure major
institutional change in the housing finance sector by strengthening the
management abilities of BTN. providing it with technical assistance, and
involving it in appraisal of the sites and services component of the project
to make it an effective instrument for construction and mortgage finance for
low-cost housing. The related development institution, PERUMNAS, was also to
be strengthened through the advisory assistance component. Third, to assist
the initiation of a national program for urban mapping. Two institutions with
major responsibilities for mapping were also strengthened: the National
Surveying and Mapping Coordination Board (BAKOSURTANAL), and the Directorate
General of Agraria (DGA), newly reorganized as the National Land Agency (BPN)
from November 1988. The primary components of the project included:
(a) Kampung Improvement Program. The project supported the provision of
basic infrastructure services including roads, footpaths, drainage,
water supply, sanitation facilities, solid waste collection, schools
and health centers at minimum standards in low-income unserviced
kampung areas. A total area of over 1,900 ha in the six cities was
targeted. The priority criteria and design standards were similar to
previous projects.
(b) Sites and Services. Land acquisition and the construction of
infrastructure, community facilities and core houses totalling
190 ha. including, Denpasar (54 ha), Samarinda (13 ha), and
Jogjakarta (37 ha); to be developed at average densities of 60 units



-6
per ha, for a total of about 6,000 plots, and three additional cities
(Semarang, Jambi and Padang), projects (totalling 85 ha) were to be
designed accommodate 5,500 plots, in accordance with criteria and
standards agreed with the Bank. The standards and criteria for sites
and services were to include approximately 502 of its plots designed
for the income group between the 15th and 39th percentile of the
income distribution, 302 of the plots for the group between the 40th
and the 59th percentile, and 202 for the group from the 60th to about
the 80th percentile. Allottees were to build their own houses with
technical assistance and supervision provided by PERUMNAS and, where
desired by the allottees, loans to purchase building materials would
be provided by PERUMNAS.
(c) DenDasar City-Wide Improvements. To include: (i) improvements to
and expansion of the solid waste management system: and (ii)
extension of the water supply system from Densapar to Kuta/Jimbaran.
The solid waste system was to cover the whole of Denpasar, with
household storage in bins, alternate day collection, and transfer to
a properly managed sanitary landfill. Landfill site development was
provided under the project, as well as technical assistance to help
in the organization and management of the system.
(d) Urban Mapping. To produce from available DGA aerial photographs,
rectified photobases and topographic overlays for 25 cities, and a
further 100 cities would be flown and mapped. These cities, which
have high priority in GOI's urban development program include those
in East Java, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi which the Bank had been asked
to review for future urban and water supply projects (Maps at 1:1000
scale with 1 meter contour intervals and a 1:250,000 scale base data
map of Java).
(e) Studies. Consulting Services and Technical Assistance. About 710
man-months of foreign and 540 man-months of local consultants'
services were intended to: (i) assist in the planning and
implementation of KIP; (ii) assist municipalities in improving their
tax collections; (iii) a training program in urban development
programming for municipalities; (iv) prepare feasibility studies and
engineering design of the first phase of the drainage systems for
Banjarmasiu and Samarinda; (v) strengthen PERUMNAS' planning and
management capabilities; (vi) assist in developing capacities in BTN
to function as a housing bank; (vii) assist DGA in evaluating aerial
photography mapping firms and in supervising the work; (viii) assist
BAKOSURTANAL in planning and coordinating national mapping programs
and to test plot one urban area using computer techniques; and (ix)
assist in preparing future urban projects.
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.11     MPW-DGHS was the GOI executing agency for these projects, although
the design and organizational arrangements for both project were substantially
assisted by direct Bank involvement in the preparation of both operations. In
addition to preparation/feasibility study consultants, Bank missions and other



-7-
staff inputs totaled nearly 100 staff weeks of preparation support for each
project (see Table 8A-Part III). The success of the KIP unit organizations in
Jakarta and Surabaya during the first two Bank projects led to Bank insistence
on independent KIP units in all project cities (and eventually 292 KIP units
of a possible total of 301 local government nationwide). It was primarily the
Bank's concerns for clarification of funding channels matched with
implementation responsibilities which led to the creation of the revised
organization arrangements for Urban IV in which provincial units of DGHS and
MHA-DG BANGDA played more prominent roles, although these arrangements also
proved problematic (see discussion under Urban IV below). The more
significant, lasting impact of these preparations was the creation of a
working dialogue between key GOI official and Bank staff regarding sector
development targeting and institutional arrangements/issues which has
successfully continued to the present.
1.12     While both projects were regarded as conceptually straight-forward
and well-prepared by both the GOI units and Bank, in varying degrees the KIP
components in all cities did not include appropriate attention to necessary
linkages with the major urban systems/utilities serving the city. Nearly all
project cities cite some KIP areas for which water supply, drainage, solid
waste or other project improvement are still not effective due to inadequate
capacities in the macro-systems for that city or flawed designs for linking to
Such systems. In some cases (e.g. water supply and drainage in Ujung Pandang)
these problems of macro-system capacities were recognized during preparation
but committed to other donors' programs which were subsequently deferred/
delayed. Most such problems, however, appear to have arisen from inadequate
planning/design attention to system linkages and/or inadequate coordination
and sequencing of investment programming. These problems became quite
apparent during implementation of the projects, but GOI resource and manpower
constraints prevented the timely solution of such issues. However, later
projects (e.g. the Fifth Urban Development Project - 2408-IND) took a more
systematic approach to KIP improvements. Even more significantly, resolution
of such problems have been at the heart of the Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Program ("IUIDP") initiatives being pureued by GOI during the past
four years in an attempt to coordinate programming of physical investment in
all infrastructure sub-sectors within the resource and implementation capacity
constraints of the local governments.
1.13     Cost recovery was not strongly emphasized during the preparation of
either of these operations, with the exception of the PERUMNAS housing
subprojects of Urban IV (see Tables 6B in Part III for summary of PERUMNAS
results). However, adequate financial and institutional arrangements to
assure proper operation of urban services after construction did not receive
sufficient attention during appraisal (or supervision) of these projects. In
those cases where local governments initiated appropriate user fee systems for
community toilets (e.g., Surakarta), solid waste collection (e.g., Surabaya)
and water taps, the facilities performed well with regular cleaning and/or
maintenance. In other cases, a wide variety of problems were reported,
including facilities left unused or very dirty due to no clear assignment of
operating responsibility or authority to collect user fees. No attempt was
made in the project cities to directly recover capital costs of
infrastructure.



-8-
1.14     Other more specific points related to the design and organization of
each operation are briefly summarized below:
Third Urban Development Project
(a) The system of pre-financing utilized during the initial years of the
project was poorly conceived. Single annual transfers from MOF to
project cities created huge account balances for many months while
implementation "caught upo with the budget, and thus disincentives for
local contribution and opportunities for misappropriation. This initial
system was revised to use smaller 'replenishment" increments (and applied
to Urban lV), then replaced by the "special account" direct payment
procedures of the Urban Sector Loan in 1987.
(b) Operations and maintenance (O/M) requirements included as loan covenants
were never fully understood nor adequately achieved by local officials.
This is part of a much larger GOI problem with O/M and government
programming practices. O/M is another key aspect of the IUIDP
initiative, based primarily on pilot system work from the Bank's Fifth
Urban project and Urban Sector Loan. O/M also has been highlighted as a
GOI priority for attention during the current Repelita V (1989-94). (Also
see Section 7: Sustainability).
Fourth Urban Development Proiect
(a) The magnitude of institutional capacity problems at Bank Tambunan Negara
(BTN) was seriously underestimated during preparation. Throughout the
project period the inability of BTN to provide timely processing of
mortgages and subsequent payments to PERUMNAS created severe cash flow/
liquidity problems for PERUMNAS. Despite the presence of small Bank-
financed TA team at BTN, the management and processing capacities posed a
major constraint on the housing components of the operation which was not
adequately recognized at appraisal. However, the Bank's Housing Sector
Loan (2725-IND) has recently assisted in refining BTN's role in the
sector and attempted a major management strengthening program (in
progress).
(b) O/M provisions of this operation were similarly inadequate to these noted
above for Urban III.
(c) Perhaps the single most apparent design flaw in either project was in the
complex division of implementation responsibility assignments for the KIP
components in the six cities, as follows:



-9-
KIP Package            Sub-Sectors                Implementing Agency
"Core" KIP      Roads, Footpaths & Drainage       Local RIP Unit
Extended KIP    Water Supply, Sanitation &        Provincial DGHS
Solid Waste                      Project Units
INPRES KIP      Primary Schoolc and Health        Local INPRES Units
Clinics
The intent of this division of responsibilities was to leave
implementation management, contracting and supervision authority with the
GOI units typically responsible for executing each sub-sector, and
consistent with the funds flows in the project financing plan whereby
DGHS and INPRES contributions would remain under their respective
control. In practice the land acquisition, contracting and construction
scheduling, accounting, disbursement and reporting of these units were
never smoothly coordinated. Some targeted kampungs received only one or
two of the packages, while in almost no case was the design and
construction schedule adequately coordinated. Such problems formed yet
another major input to the current planning and programming approaches
included in the GOI IUIDP process.
(d) The urban mapping program succeeded in producing high-quality photomaps
for 99 cities in perhaps the most ambitious such program ever financed by
the Bank. However, the design and organization of the project gave
inadequate attention to the problems of distribution, use, storage and
maintenance of the maps. Nor was the potential role of the mapping in
implementing other loan components fully clarified and procedures agreed
with G'I for utilization of the maps (e.g. use in updating tax rolls for
improved IPEDA/PBB property tax collections). As a result, prolonged
discussions of the ownership, distribution, maintenance and updating
responsibilities have seriously delayed the full dissemination of the
maps and limited their usefulness to date.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.15     The two projects represent GOI's first donor-assisted efforts to
develop municipal government capacities for urban program execution outside
the Jakarta and Surabaya metropolitan areas. While Jakarta and Surabaya
targeted more ambitious results in Urban III, the implementation performance
of the other nine project cities was of greater long-term significance to the
future of urban operations in Indo"iesia. In overview, all eleven
municipalities performed reasonably well, demonstrating substantial capacity
for preparation and execution of basic infrastructure subprojects at least in
the RIP format. The housing component of the Fourth project also demonstrated
the substantial capacities of PERUMNAS-BTN to deliver moderate to large scale
subprojects. All of these capacities were questionable at the time of
appraisal, but clearly represent one of the most positive outcomes of the
projects.
1.16     Several significant issues arose during the implementation of both
projects which may be summarized as follows:



- 10 -
Issues Common to Both Projects
(a) GOI - Bank agreement to apply the GOI standard procurement procedures
(KEPRES 14, later amended as KEPRES 29) for all local civil works,
materials and services was in most respects expedient and prudent.
However, three aspects of these procurement regulations consistently
created problems during implementation:
(i) The requirement to give preference in small civil works tenders (as
in most of KIP) to contractors from the "eccaomically weak social
groups" was widely interpreted by officials and contractors to
exclude firms with ethnic Chinese ownership/management, which served
to reduce the already limited pool of capable contractors in each
city.
(ii) The KEPRES provision allowing the award of contracts to any of the
three lowest qualified bidders created numerous disqualifications of
low bids with little or no justification by the responsible officials
but no defined mechanism for GOI review of such decisions.
(iii) Perhaps the most serious difficulty encountered is the very weak
pre-qualifications process which classifies contractors as to size of
contract they are eligible to receive (KIP contracts typically
limited to lowest class "C' and "D" contractors) and the type of
contract for which they are eligible to bid (e.g. civil works, water
pipelines, material supply, etc.). The loosely defined criteria and
weak administration of this system (known as the "DRM") in every
jurisdiction of GOI creates substantial barriers and/or disincentives
to the development of strong, reliable local contractor capacities.
RIP units attempting to operate separate pre-qualification processes
on more rigorous criteria were criticized by local administrators and
contractors, and typically reverted to using the DRM listings.
However, this placed an extraordinary burden on the construction
supervisors and consultants to maintain quality standards with a very
weak group of contractors.
The Construction Industry Development Project, now under preparation,
intends to address these and other issues related to procurement in the
sector. However, such an operation is unlikely to produce significant
change in the ethnic biases and opportunities for manipulation inherent
in the current system.
(b)  The RIP Units in all Project cities (indeed nationwide) have had
difficulty in attracting and retaining competent, professional staff for
full-time performance of the program, as required by the loan conditions.
This problem is attributable primarily to the "special project unit"
status of the RIP staff, operating outside the normal departmental
structure of local government, thus limiting or disrupting the normal
career paths of assigned personnel. While the RIP Units were generally
successful in implementing the projects (with consultant support in all
cases), it is arguable whether any lasting capacity was developed, as



many staff were working part-time and most of the full-time staff
returned to their regular positions upon project completion. GOI
(primarily MHA and MPW) has expressed strong reservations about designing
future project arrangements ba._ed on such special units; rather, the
institutional strengthening of permanent local agencies and capacities
(e.g. local public works departments) is regarded as an integral part of
the IUIDP approach now being applied to urban operations.
(c) As noted in the GOI evaluation of these projects (see Part II). the
design and development of drainage systems was the most problematic
technical component of KIP efforts in all cities. The engineers and
technicians available to most KIP units and local contractors apparently
require training and additional experience to properly conceive and
execute systems of drainage facilities.
(d) Project documentation is insufficient to assess the quality of works
undertaken in individual subprojects (see Section 12 for additional
discussion).
Urban III Issues
(a) The small components for training of Community Health Workers (CHW) in
Jakarta and Surabaya, the proposed aerial photography of the p;oject
cities, and the land registration program for Surabaya all proved to be
inappropriate/duplicative efforts during project implementation.  After a
year of pilot program work the CHW component was discontinued in favor of
the POSYANDU program of the GOI Ministry of Health, although the
facilities built (40 clinics in Jakarta) were never successfully
transferred. The air photos were included as part of the larger Urban IV
mapping effort (see below). The land registration program was never
implemented due to lack of capacity within the local DGA office and lack
of political commitment to the program to overcome vested interests in
not registering land for tax purposes.
(b) Supplemental DGHS grants (Perintisan DIP and ABT) to the cities in excess
of financing plan targets for the project generally allowed the cities to
reduce their programmed contributions and indirectly served as a
disincentive to local revenue mobilization. However, with program
revision after the 1983 devaluation, the cities met their contribution
targets in Rupiah terms, and uniformly exceeded both the physical
coverage and revenue mobilization targets of the project.
(c) The efforts to pilot a comprehensive local PPBS system in Surabaya met
with mixed results. After several revisions to account for GOI sector
definitions and budget practices, the consultant, the City and MH%
claimed successful completion and installation of a system known as
"PAFPAK" to produce rolling 5-year capital improvements programs for the
city. The system includes capital expenditures in all 17 program
categories of the GOI local budget (including those 5-6 covered by IUIDP)
and appears to provide a useful (although rather awkward) format for
introducing capital improvements programming concepts to GOI/MHA for
local governments. However, Bank supervision reports were initially



- 12 -
dubious/negative regarding the system and then silent on further
application. MHA has recently pursued the installation of the PAFPAX
system in other cities, but the Bank's inadequate documentation of
supervision during development of the system has created delay in
establishing a Bank position regarding further support. The problem
appears to result from personality conflicts between the consultant and
Bank supervision staff, but has now been largely rectified and Bank
financing from Urban V committed (belatedly) for further refinement and
application of PAFPAK in other c4ties.
Urban IV Issues
(a) The Building Materials Loans component to be executed by Perumnas was
determined on further evaluation (1983) to be unworkable due to the
logistical/supervision burdens such a program would place on the limited
PERUMNAS staff. Funds earmarked for this sub-component were reallocated
with Bank agreement to finance additional housing construction based on
PERUMNAS priorities.
(b) As the implementation period for this project covered two major GOI
devaluation of the Rupiah (1983 and 1986), significant loan "savings" in
rupiah terms were accrued during the course of the project. With Bank
agreement and consultant assistance in targeting, the physical objectives
of the project were extended in all project cities based on local KIP
priority lists, and additional housing sites were added based on PERUMNAS
priorities. These expansions of project scale were largely limited to
the "core KIP" sub-components executed by the KIP Units, resulting in
uneven levels of service and other "linkage" problems as noted
previously, but clearly demonstrating the additional capacities of most
municipalities to handle the expanded program. DGHS was unable to
provide corresponding increases in grants for their subcomponents due to
fiscal constraints. This situation clearly demonstrated the need for
revised, flexible programming and funding procedures as now incorporated
in the IUIDP.
(c)  The relatively slow disbursement performance on this loan was largely
attributable to poor communication with local governments of procedures,
documentation requirements and eligibility criteria (e.g. INPRES
expenditures) by DGHS and the Bank, as well as inadequate initial
staffing and financial records-keeping procedures to consolidate
expenditures by cities, to include INPRES and DGHS grants. While
physical implementation was generally good, both DGHS and the Bank were
slow to address the disbursement problems, creating a significant
pre-financing and commitment charge burden on GOI.
(d) At the request of GOI, a substantial portion of unallocated funds from
the project were disbursed to UNCHS as GOI cost-sharing contributions to
the UNDP Project INS/85/005: IUIDP Planning and Programming Support, to
strengthen GOI central and local capacities for urban infrastructure
program management nationwide in accordance with project objectives.
(e) The efforts to pilot a system of functional reorganization and focusing



- 13 -
of local tax collection offices (DIPENDA) in the project cities to select
only the most productive of the more than 50 local taxes and effectively
pursue collections has been regarded as a major success by GOI, although
clearly much more could have been done. GOI (MHA) included the extension
of this effort to an additional 93 local governments as a major action
plan item of the Urban Sector Loan (USL). This in turn established the
justification for an MHA Ministerial degree, issued in April 1989, making
permanent the reorganization in the 99 local governments and instructing
the remaining 202 to make similar revisions. This experience has also
been a major input to the pending legislation to revise the GOI Local
Taxes and Charges Law.
(f) Arrangements for the development and operation of infrastructure to serve
PERUMW'AS housing projects continue to be problematic, leading to delays
and loss of revenue (e.g. from commercial and other plots within the
developments). Local government concern for O/M costs (see Section 7
below) and PERUMNAS cash flow problems appear to be the most common
sources of difficulty. The Housing Sector Loan (2725-IND) is addressing
this problem further.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
1.17     All principal objectives of both projects were achieved and physical
infrastructureicivil works and housing targets generally exceeded due to the
agreed investment of additional Rupiah values created by mid-project devalua-
tions. Part III (Tables 4-6) displays the statistical overview of project
expenditures and achievements. The broader importance of the implementation
of these projects in relation to the original objectives may be summarized as:
(a) Both projects clearly demonstrated the feasibility of and supported GOI
policy to implement KIP on a national scale, at least for major urban
areas. Local government capacities to conceive and manage such
operations were largely proven, although additional strengthening needs
an( other problem areas were noted. A clear basis was created for the
subsequent Urban V project (covering all Urban III cities except Jakarta)
which expanded the physical and institutional scope of the GOI urban
program substantially. Even more significantly, the experience gained in
these projects provided much of the framework for development of the
IUIDP approach and subsequent Urban Sector Loan, now being implemented
nationwide.
(b) By improving the capacities and effectiveness of BTN and PERUMNAS a very
substantial program of housing was delivered in Urban IV. Although the
institutional capabilities were not fully "secured" (per objective
statement), the required reforms and strengthening were much more clearly
defined and the basis of policy dialogue established to pursue the
Housing Sector Loan (2725-IND).
(c) The Urban III objective of providing solid waste, drainage and other
investments to impact public health conditions in Jakarta and Surabaya



- 14 -
was substantially achieved, although the CHW sub-component was
accomplished through other funding (POSYANDU program, noted previously).
The public health impact of these investments has not been documented.
(d) The Urban IV mapping objective was achieved with private contractors
mapping 99 cities although the distribution and utilization of the maps
to date is disappointing.
1.18     The estimated weighted average rate of return for Urban III RIP
components was 85Z at appraisal, based on increases in land values observed
during the previous urban projects. During the 1984 preparation of the Urban
V project in the same cities, rates of return were estimated for Urban III
components while implementation was still in progress. These appear to be
conservative estimates of benefits, although the lack of adequate O/M for the
infrastructure developed (see Section 7 below) may limit or eliminate the
benefits assumed. As no more recent data was obtained by GOI, the 1984
estimates may be regarded as the most accurate available; which were:
Jakarta RIP          = 312
Surabaya KIP         = 35Z
Semarang RIP         = 172
Surakarta KIP        = 15%
Ujung Pandang KIP    = 41Z
By weighing these values it was estimated that an actual rate of return of at
least 31X was achieved for Urban III KIP. For SWIP components in Jakarta and
Surabaya approximately 15Z rates of return appear to have been immediately
achieved (again, 1984 estimates) although collections in Surabaya have
recently been substantially improved (as part of the Urban V operation). Also
drainage improvements in Surabaya were estimated, using principally flood
damage prevention benefits, to have rates of return in excess of 25Z.
1.19     Post-project surveys of increased land value in the Urban IV cities
were undertaken by the GOI consultants engaged to review these projects. They
reported rates of return for the project ranging from 16? to 23?, but
methodological problems required the recalculation of these rates for
comparison to the appraisal est-mate of 21%   The revised comparable estimates
by city are:
Denpasar KIP          = 96?
Padang KIP           = 62Z
Palembang RIP        = 34?
Banjarmasin KIP      = 1172
Samarinda KIP        = 67?
Pontianak RIP        = (data not reported)
Wnile even these revised values must be regarded as rough approximations, it
is clear that the projects attained or exceeded the rate of return estimated
at appraisal, although the magnitude and subtainability of the land value
increases claimed are questionable. In part because all land in the projects
is not yet sold (primarily the commercial/other use areas), no rate of return
calculation has been prepared for the housing components of Urban IV, although



- 15 -
the Housing Sector Loan estimated that PERU1NAi-BTIN should achieve a positive
return on invested capital in such projects.
1.20     The major impacts of the projects are at least two-fold:
(a) The living environment of more than 2 million kampung residents (an
estimated 70? of whom were poor) in 11 cities were substantially
improved, including access to urban services, economic opportunities, and
public health improvements. An additional 100,000 persons are housed in
project-financed Perumnas units (nearly 18,000), and other urban
residents benefitted from citywide improvements in drainage, solid waste
management, improved operation of BTN mortgage finance, and other
programs.
(b)  The role of these projects in clarifying sector operational issues,
demonstrating local capacities for management, involving the Ministry of
Home Affairs in the urban sector, proving the willingness of secondary
cities to undertake subsidiary borrowing, and pizgress on municipal
resource mobilization were a11 key inputs to development of the policy
dialogue between GOI and the Bank.'s leading to the 1986 Housing Policy
Statement and 1987 Urban Sector Policy Statement, as well as the
subsequent Action Plans upon which the Bank's two Sector Loans (totaling
$520 million) are based.
7 * PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.21     Clearly the key issue regarding sustainability of project benefits
over the economic life of the project facilities is cperations and maintenance
(O/H). At the completion of the projects adequate O/M responsibility assign-
ments to capable organizations were not in place for any significant set of
project facilities. Table 7 (Part III) displays this issue as the principal
shortcoming of GOI in meeting loan conditions/covenants for both projects.
However, evaluation of the factors underlying this problem is rather more
complex, and involves at least three major areas of GOI policy action now
being addressed:
(a) clear assignment of facility ownership and O/M responsibility:
(b) systematic identification and prioritization of O/M requirements; and
(c) resource allocation (funds and manpower) to fulfill O/M needs.
1.22     Under GOI law, ownership (and thus O/M responsibility) of public
facilities is vested in the implementing agency until/unless formally trans-
ferred to another unit. The transfer of infrastructure developed by the KIP
Units, PERUMNAS, DGHS, INPRES Units and in some cases provincial units to
appropriate permanent O/M agencies has not been smooth in most cases. GOIl's
success in raising awareness of O/M requirements has led local governments and
specifically the Municipal Public Works Departments to decline transfer of
facilities which were not built to their standards and/or which impose special
O/M requirements, typically citing inadequate budgets/manpower as their
justification. Even when transfer is accepted, public or official inquiries



- 16 -
regarding poor maintenance are usually answered by noting that the facilities
were built by a "special project" and a special allocation of O/ resources
will be required. More broadly, there is a clear and urgent requirement to
rationalize the functional classification of infrastructure in Indonesia with
its associated ownership, maintenance and resource patterns clearly
specified. This work is now in progress (10 p:lot cities nearing completion)
financed by GOI and the Urban Sector Loan. Results to date indicate that wide
variation in land acquisition, cost sharing, project funds channels, local
resources and other factors will necessitate negotiation and clear project
agreements with each local government for the foreseeable future. Legal and
regulatory revisions for longer-term solutions are also under discussion by
GOI, but prospects are uncertain.
1.23     Even for those local government officials who seriously wish to
address O/M requirements for urban infrastructure, the backlogs of deferred
maintenance, poor inventory of assets to be maintained, lack of documentation
of "as-built" materials and design data, and essentially nonexistent guidance
regarding standards or prioritization procedures for very limited resouarces,
all combine to create what appears to most local officials as insurmountable
obstacles to proper O/M. For infrastructure developed under these two
projects, documentation and estimated maintenance requirements are much better
(produced by KIP Units and their consultants), but local officials can usually
not justify spending scarce resources on these "new" facilities in the face of
far more pressing needs for rehabilitating much older works and other
"emergencies". Recognizing this situation, the Bank and GOI agreed to include
in the Fifth Urban Development Project (2408-IND) a major effort to develop
O/M Systems to support identification and prioritization of maintenance needs
and management of limited O/M resources. The system has now been piloted in
three cities (Surabaya, Semarang and Ujung Pandang) and is being refined for
wider application to urban areas throughout Indonesia as part of the Urban
Sector Loan Action Plan and coordinated with Highway Maintenance procedures
developed by other Bank operations. It is premature to evaluate the
effectiveness of these efforts, other than to note that the difficulties
encountered in developing such systems make the lack of O/M progress by the
project cities somewhat more understandable.
1.24     The problem of resource allocations for O/M in Indonesia has
traditionally been compounded by the budget structure which clearly split
accounts into "routine" and "development" activities, with O/M normally
classified as "routine" and GOI broadly emphasizing the national development
program. Even more to the point, "development" budgets include salary
supplements/honoraria for project personnel, which routine functions do not
accrue. Managers have traditionally sought to minimize routine expenditures,
in many cases acknowledging that regular O/M was being deferred until a
rehabilitation project could be justified in the development budget. However,
GOI has recently drafted revisions to local budgetary regulations which will
specifically permit contracting O/M functions from the routine budget and
including O/M as an eligible development activity for staff or contracting,
providing the flexibility and incentives to modify the previous practices.
BAPPENAS has also discussed the possibility of creating an O/M development
grant program for local governments to assist in institutional strenigthening
of these functions. However, the challenge remains to finalize and implement



- 17 -
these revisions in the cities and establish the resources and capacities to
perform O/M functions. Candidly, to date none of the project cities have
sufficient budget or manpower available to adequately address the O/M
problem. The Bank and GOI view this current conundrum as one of the major
justifications for applying the IUIDP approach to programming future urban
infrastructure development with upecific attention to local government revenue
mobilization and institutional capacity building for OM as prerequisites for
further investments.
8. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.25     It is clear that the Bank in close consultation with key GOI
officials correctly and effectively targeted the objectives of these
operations early in the preparation process. The strategic significance of
the Bank-GOI decision to aggressively expand urban infrastructure development
as a national priority cannot be overstated. Likewise, in preparing the Urban
IV operation serious differences in housing strategy which had surfaced during
the First Urban Project were the subject of Bank-GOI dialogue and resolution,
which provided the foundations for current Housing Sector operations.
1.26     Appraisal to effectiveness periods were somewhat prolonged on both
projects, attributable pr'imarily to the clarification and negotiation of sub-
sidiary lending agreements within GOI (which led to eligible local governments
dropping out of both operations and subsequent adjustment of Bank
documentation). The other substantial delaying factor was the continuing
dialogue regarding technical assistance and support requirements for the
jrojects. In both cases, definition of the package were not finalized until
negotiation and Terms of Reference for all assistance were not agreed until
well after effectiveness, which in turn delayed mobilization of some key
assistance. Both GOI and the Bank must share responsibility for not
adequately addressing such matters during the preparation efforts.
1.27     Supervision of these projects is, however, the principal area where
Bank performance may be subject to question. In fact, GOI has rather directly
stated its view that Bank superv3qion efforts for these projects were
inadequate (see Part II), particulaAly in light of the innovations and new
institutions in widely-scattered locations combined with untested GOI
capacities to adequately manage such operations. GOI has also stated that O/M
and cost recovery performance in project cities could have been enhanced had
the Bank supervision of these issues been "firmer." Although Bank supervision
averaged 20-25 staff weeks per year per project (see Table 8-A, Part III), it
is clear GOI and the projects would have benefitted from even higher levels of
supervision, particularly field time spent in the outlying cities where
operations were new but guidance efforts were left almost entirely in the
hands of relatively inexperienced consultants (See Section 11 below).
1.28     The Bank did, however, commit significant resources to resolving
procurement, disbursement and related operational issues identified by the
supervision missions. Most notably, the Resident Mission staff (RSI) was
strengthened by an additional (local) engineer to focus on procurement and



- 18 -
monitoring issues, and RSI was able to conduct reimbursement application semi-
nars for all participants plus field visits to their project offices on at
least an annual basis.
1.29     Particularly for Urban IV, however, these efforts were not effective
in resolving the difficult division of impl.mentation responsibilities (noted
in Section 4 previously) and associated project documentation problems. These
problems were compounded with the issues of loan balances resulting from the
two major devaluations of the Rupiah during implementation of Urban IV. Bank
review (or appraisal) of the proposals for extending project coverage to
utilize such balances presented the opportunity to significantly revise
pru4ect operation, but were given at best uneven attention. (PERUMNAS
proposals were reviewed in some detail; KIP extension proposals were generally
given minimal attention.) It appears that supervision coefficients for these
operations may be generally classed as inadequate. It is important to note
that the IUIDP approach now being pursued by GOI and the Bank for future
projects is in part intended to address these problems through more local
government involvement and development of new intermediary capacities at
provincial and central government levels.
9. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.30     Performance by GOI agencies at all levels was generally acceptable,
with municipal governments and deconcentrated project units of DGHS
demonstrating somewhat better than expected capacities, while key central
agencies including DGHS (particularly Directorate Perumahan), PERUMNAS, BTN
and DG Agraria all being weaker than anticipated. Substantial issues related
to GOI performance included:
(a) Land acquisition management by municipal agencies was problematic, at
best. Difficulties ranged from public complaints about unnecessary
acquisitions of wide rights-of-way to removal of officials for fund
misappropriation, and included a major re-design of the Denpasar Solid
Waste Management System due to re-siting the landfill and delay because
the new site required environmental investigation. In most KIP areas,
the siting of public sanitation facilities (MCKs) was poor and investment
benefits lost in many cases because inaccessible locations were selected
due to a combination of public unwillingness to have MCKs near their
homes (due to justifiable fears of poor maintenance) and inadequate land
acquisition budgets to purchase available prime locations. Further
Bank-GOI dialogue on project land acquisition policies appears to be
needed  urgently.  (Note:  PERIMAS policies for future sites is
addressed as an element of the Housing Sector lending agenda). It is
hoped that the newly-created National Land Agency (BPN) (November 1988)
will develop the capacity to provide leadership in resolving such issues.
(b) As noted elsewhere in this report, DGHS management and documentation
capacities were surprisingly weak. Even after observing this in the
early stages of Urban III and targeting Directorate Perumahan with a
major technical assistance program for KIP Management Strengtheniig in
Urban IV, results were not substantially better until Central Project
Management and Finance Offices (CPMO and CPFO) were formed in the DGHS



- 19 -
Directorate of Program Development (Bina Program) as part of the Urban V
management and monitoring program. However, consistency of accounting
procedures and availability of timely audit reports continue to be
problems, which are targeted in the ongoing Accountancy Development
Project (2940-IND) for which public works is a pilot sector.
(c) Processing time for ICB tendering continued to be a serious problem in
these loans. Although only a limited number of ICB procurements were
scheduled, primarily for consultancy services and key
materials/specialized vehicles, the-e inputs were uniformly critical to
the timing and proper performance I the projects and their delays
consistently disrupted project performance. Procurement delays of 6-18
months from original schedule were quite common, and longer in some
extreme cases (e.g. nearly 3 years for Jakarta SWIP equipment from
original tender to delivery). While the process was improved by
Executive Order No. 1/1988 which removed the National Secretariat review,
Ministerial Procurement Committees are now required and there is little
evidence of major improvement in overall quality or timing of procurement
to date. Further Bank-GOI dialogue on procurement procedures and timing
is essential.
(d) Communications among xey GOI agencies has traditionally been a major
problem, and was in the early stages of these projects. However, the
preparation and administration of these operations involving the Ministry
of Finance (pre-financing, subsidiary lending agreements and
disbursements), Ministry of Home Affairs (local government guidance and
institutional development, INPRES, etc.), BAPPENAS (sector strategy,
annual budgets, etc.) and the basic technical responsibilities of
MPW-DGHS were catalytic in developing the dialogue which led to the 1987
Urban Sector Policy Statement and in turn to the Urban Sector Loan.
10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
1.31     Relationships between the Bank and key GOI agencies, particularly
Ministry of Public Works units and Ministry of Finance, were quite good
throughout the course of both projects. As noted elsewhere in this report,
the dialogue generated during these projects regarding urban programs and
implementation arrangements formed a major input to future policy-based
operations. However, the Bank's reliance on GOI central government agencies
to perform intermediation functions with project local governments cannot be
regarded as satisfactory. The local governments relied heavily on DGHS
consultants to provide program guidance and supervision, but frequently with
inadequate communications with DGHS and other central GOI agencies for
coordination of implementation or policy issues. Current IUIDP preparations
are attempting to establish the intermediation functions largely at the
provincial level to overcome some of these difficulties, but any such efforts
will still require the strengthening of central program management and
guidance capacities in DGHS and the Ministry of Home Affairs. Other sections
of this report also review project relationships/issues, e.g., preceding
section on Bank Performance (Section 8).



- 20 -
11.  CONSULTING SERVICES
1.32     As has been typical for Bank operations with GOI, consultants played
a prominent role in all aspects of p ojects implementation.  A tabulation of
consultancy services and technical assistance financed from each loan is
displayed on Tables 6-E (Part III). In overview, the following points appear
most significant for developing Bank-GOI dialogue:
(a) The overall quantity of technical assistance/institutional development
support provided in these projects may be summarized as "minimally
adequate' to achieve project objectives, but was inadequate to fully
attain the potential sector development benefits of adequately
strengthening key agencies. The quantity and quality limitations on
professional GOI staff are unlikely to allow significant changes in the
established pattern of heavy reliance on consultants for the operational
design and supervision of urban projects for the foreseeable future.
Similarly technical support of most major strategy studies or procedural
reforms will also continue to be required, as progress in expanding
sector staff capacities has not kept pace with the rapid expansion of
sector program targets/commitments. Such consultant input should more
accurately be described as 'staff support' rather than truly 'technical
assistance," and certainly not subjected to arbitrary limits (e.g. as a
percentage of loan or project value) without first evaluating GOI staff
capacities.
(b) Procurement of consultants continues to be distorted by a range of
factors including artificial ratios of local/foreign participation,
billing rate limitations by nationality and age/experience rather than
performance and poor understanding of Terms of Reference (usually in
English) by many Tender Committee members. This is compounded by the
knowledge of experienced firms that proposal terms can typically be
negotiated/modified (e.g. personnel substitutions, and other changes
after selection) leading to a frequent attitude toward proposals that may
best be expressed as 'promise them anything...,'. Under such conditions,
it is a tribute to the dedication and integrity of most of those involved
that generally acceptable results have been achieved. However, the
system of procurement and management of consultant services is
unquestionably a prime target for future GOI-Bank dialogue and reform
action.
(c) The GOI insistence that Urban IV KIP and other selected components be
assisted by local consultants with little or no expatriate support
generally worked well for routine KIP operations, but difficulty was
experienced in project policy/linkage issues (e.g. proposals for
extension resulting from devaluation). This may be generally attributed
to poor communication of policies and principles agreed between GOI and
the Bank to such consultants (and the local government they adviset).
Seminars and other devices to more fully inform and involve the local
consultant community in sector policy discussions and deepen their
appreciation for the context and principles of Bank urban operations



- 21 -
would be a significant step in improving such communication. Such
activities could be planned jointly by RSI and GOI, perhaps timed to
coincide with a sector mission of senior Washington staff.
12. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
1.33     Records and data maintained by GOI related to the performance of both
projects were generally adequate for assembly of the required inputs to this
PCR, but were scattered in the project cities and various implementing units.
The official "Executing Agency" - DGHS - did not maintain systematic
information regarding these projects, and consultant assistance was required
to assemble and interpret project data for the borrower's PCR. However, these
deficiencies had been previously identified by the Bank and GOI, and
significant corrective actions undertaken/agreed for current projects,
including:
(a)  the establishment in 1985 of Central Project Maragement Office (CPMO) and
Central Project Finance Office (CPFO) units within DGHS to maintain
complete monitoring records of the Urban V Project and all subsequent
programs (including other donors projects);
(b) during preparation of this PCR (1988), the DGHS unit responsible (Sub-Dit
PEP) established and committed to maintain a special cell of professional
and support staff to compile project completion documentation for all
subsequent projects as each contract/component is finalized (versus
previous practice of waiting for overall project completion). This cell
will issue guidance and review final/completion reports for all project
activities to assure data availability for future evaluations and/or PCR
efforts; and,
(c) the pending Public Works Institutional Development and Manpower Project
(negotiations completed June 5-7, 1989) includes components to
significantly strengthen the monitoring, data management/records-keeping
and project evaluation capacities of the MPW Secretariat and all
implementing units, which in turn should provide significantly improved
access to information for future PCR's and the basis for more substantive
GOI review of project effectiveness.



- 22 -
INDONESIA
THIRD AND FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (LOAN 1653-IND AND 1972-IND
Project Completion Report
PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION 1/
A. Main Findings and Lessons Learned
1.   The Project Further Demonstrated the Appropriateness of the KIP Approach
and its Replicability.
(a)   Integrated multi-sectoral improvements designed to basic functional
standards were successful in creating significant impact and benefit
over a short period at low cost.
(b)   Basic improvements provided followed closely the target cost
standards set and were on average:
irban III Rp. 38488 per capita or Rp. 14.32 million per ha
Urban IV Rp. 32811 per capita or Rp. 8.47 million per ha
(c)   Over 2.0 million people benefitted from the basic infrastructure and
service improvements provided in the kampungs in 11 cities over about
8 years in the two projects adding further to the 2 million approx.
that benefitted in Jakarta and Surabaya under Urban I and II KIP's,
further demonstrating the replicability of the KIP approach.
(d    )The alleviation of unhygienic living conditions having a major
impact on public health and providing an economic stimulus by
improving services and promoting through better hygiene/health access
and education.
(e)   The clear benefit of infrastructure provided by KIP affected to
enthusiasm, demands for further works and motivation of the community
to provide more for themselves.
(f)   With kampungs normally making up more than half of the built up area
of most cities and estimated to house up to 702 of residents in many
of them, KIP is clearly the most important instrument for effecting
rapid and affordable improvements to such areas. It would be
1/ Edited from final GOI Projects Completion Report, Executive Summary and
Chapter 7, prepared by P.T. Bumi Prasidi and associates under the direction
of DGHS. Cleared with GOI on a "no objection" basis(telex dated June 22,
1989).



- 23 -
important to remember that KIP's are essentially physical improvement
programs providing elements that the people alone would find
difficult to pro-vide from technical and financial viewpoints (eg.
infrastructure networks). However, successful implementation of the
programs, and perhaps more importantly, the successful sustaining of
improvements provided, rely on the active support and participation
of the benefitting communities.
(g)   KIP's provided only basic improvements and were never seen as the
final solution to the areas and infrastructure provided was to be
capable of being further upgraded incrementally over time as and when
aspirations and affordability of the communities increased. The
above are factors to be borne in mind in preparing the future 'KIP
Strategy' (being prepared with support of USL-I).
2.   The KIP Unit (Project Implementation Unit) Concept Was Successful in
Achieving Physical Aims of the Project but Did Not Support Longer Term
Strengthening of Established Local Government Departments. The Future Role
of KIP Units is also Unclear.
(a)   KIP Units planned and implemented the capital works programs
generally successfully but established delivery agencies saw their
power and influence being eroded and considered they were better
equipped and staffed to implement programs. Many KIP Unit staff
worked part-time on KIP as they did not wish to jeopardize promotion
opportunities in established career posts. Existing agencies are now
charged with maintaining additional infrastructure designed by, and
for which construction was supervised by, others but are generally in
no better position to do so than prior to the Projects. Meanwhile
the future role of many established KIP Units is unclear and they
appear to be 'dying'.
(b)   In future the capacity of institutions should be analyzed in greater
detail in formulating projects to determine whether, with appropriate
strengthening, such Projects could be implemented through them or
whether 'KIP Units' are necessary. Where this analysis and the size
of the city and program are considered to warrant a KIP Unit then it
should be given departmental status and perhaps wider authority to
deal with all kampung and/or housing related matters.
3.   ZIP Infrastructure Is Showing Signs of Distress and GreLter Focus Is
Required on the Operation and Maintenance of KIP Infrastructure and City
Infrastructure Generally.
(a)   For various reasons including lack of skilled knowledge and
experience of maintenance programming and techniques, competing
demands on limited budgets, the greater desire by cities for new,
more vioible projects and probably in part due to the issue outlined
in 2 above, infrastructure provided is not being properly protected.
Also community potential for carrying out routine maintenance



- 24 -
programs is not being harnessed as effectively as it might in many
cities. Surabaya appears to be a notable exception.
(b)   Previous Bank-supported Projects including Urban III and IV gave
insufficient tangible support to O&M but which is now being addressed
in Urban V. It would be important for the municipal management
programs of Urban V to provide visible results as quickly as possible
to begin to protect recent past investments. Development and
Implementation of such programs should consider beneficiaries of RIP
as a major resource opportunity and should recommend/implement
mechanisms to efficiently channel and organize such resources.
4.   RIP (MICRO) Infrastructure and Services Would More Consistently Achieve
Optimum Efficiency and Benefits if Greater Attention Were Paid in Program
Design to City Wide (MACRO) Infrastructure and the Linkages Between.
(a)   In planning KIP projects due cognizance of off site or city wide
needs has not in many cases been taken into account or, if needs have
been recognized, budget has not been available to implement necessary
linkages to ensure tertiary and secondary infrastructure can operate
effectively.
(b)   A more comprehensive, city wide, approach should be adopted in future
programs. This has been recognized and the IUIDP approach now being
adopted gives the opportunity to redress past 'lin age' problems and
ensure they do not recur in new projects.
5.   Sanitation Probably Constitutes the Most Difficult Problem to Solve in the
Often Densely Populated, Poorly Draining, Flood Prone Kampungs. Communal
Toilet and Washing Blocks Can Be Effective (Certainly in the Short/Medium
Tern) But Require to be Very Well managed and Have Good Access and A
Reliable Water Supply. >tore Efficient Solutions still Require to be
Identified in the Kampun;,s in the Longer Term.
(a)   Some MCK's that operated well/properly add to the community
consciousness about the importance of a good sanitation for health
care, and show the community the need to replicate in their own
house.
(b)   A high proportion of MCK's built in the projects are not operating
effectively and predominant reasons are poor management leading to
inadequate maintenance, a lack of a reliable water supply and poor
location. Unless these problems are addressed MCK's are a wasted
investment.
(c)   In the longer term with ever increasing pressure on land and with
increases in water supply (creating more wastewater) it would be
important to identify more effective but affordable sanitation
solution. for the kampungs. Current 'strategy' studies (from USL.1)
should give thLs aspect of kampung development particular focus.



- 25 -
6.   The Perintisan KIP Project (Central GOI Grants) Helped to Expand KIP
Nationally but in Urban III Added Complexities to the Project Which in
Practice Added Little to Program Funding Instead Substituting Originally
Agreed Finance. However, It Highlighted the Need for the Consolidation of
Budgets.
(a)   The Perintisan KIP provided Rp.2.8 million/ha for an arbitrary number
of hectares in Urban III cities (other than Jakarta and Surabaya), in
theory, making additional funds available.
(b)   In practice however Perintisan (and ABT funds in Ujung Pandang) for
the most part substituted existing agreed funding although the KIP
Units had the added complexity of integrating Perintisan requirement
in to the already agreed Urban III program.
(c)   This together with the fact that other funding sources were also
involved (ie. Provincial and Municipal Government) demonstrated the
need for pooling of resources or consolidation of budgets to more
efficiently implement 'integrated' sectoral development projects such
as KIP.
7.   Shortcomings in Drainage Provided in Kampungs in A Number of Cities Suggest
Improved Training Programs for Engineers and Technicians in Drainage Design
and Practices are Required and Possibly Rationalization of Drainage
Responsibilities. These Should Be Addressed in Manpower Development and
Institutional Development Components of Ongoing or Future Projects.
(a)   Lack of gradient, insufficient capacities, poor location and linkage
to existing systems have occurred in kampung drainage provision
suggesting inadequate design and the need for better knowledge of
drainage design and practices by involved local engineers and
technicians and those responsible for supervision and monitoring.
(b)   A number of agencies are involved in drainage (eg. DG of Irrigation,
PLP and City Administrations) largely depending on prime use, type,
location or size of drain. It is possible that a lack of clear
responsibility has contributed to shortcomings in drainage design and
generally inadequate drainage provision in many cities.
(c)   Urban V is continuing to support drainage and there would appear to
be a need for increased support for city wide drainage projects in
future.
(d)   The Urban Sector Loan proposes to support manpower development
programs generally in the sector and it would be important to include
detailed technical training in drainage design, etc. in such
programs.



- 26 -
8.   KIP and SWIP Improvements in Surabaya Have Together Demonstrated What Can
Be Achieved in Terms of City Cleanliness and Environmental Improvements
Over A Relatively Short Period.
(a)   Significant improvements in the cleanliness of Surabaya have been
witnessed over recent years as a result of KIP, SWIP and active
participation of the communities and resulted in the city getting the
'cleanest city' award.
(b)   In addition by the innovation of billing for SWIP services together
with water bills, KMS is able to recover the costs of the SWIP
service and is thus better equipped to sustain service levels.
9.   Drainage Improvement Program in Surabaya Benefitted An Area Exceeding the
Target As Planned, However More Follow Up Programs Are Required in
Improving the Secondary And Tertiary Drainage And Its General Operation
Maintenance.
(a)   Drainage Improvement Program in Surabaya, benefitted an area of 3,500
ha to alleviate floods, exceeded target of 1,000 ha as planned
before.
(b)   For achieving more optimum benefit, it is necessary to be continued
with improvement programs of the secondary and tertiary drainage
connected and expanded in other areas.
(c)   In order that the improved drainage is able to operate over its long
life-time, a good operation and maintenance program is required to be
established. Such issues above are being addressed in Urban V
Project.
10. SWIP Services in Jakarta Have Been Expanded but Inadequate Cost Recovery by
DKI May Prevent Continued Expansion, Improvement and Maintenance of the
Service Without Continued Significant Subsidies from General Revenues.
(a)   Sustaining, improving and expanding SWIP services in Jakarta which
operates a sophisticated fleet of collection vehicles (300 provided
under Urban III alone) and employs over 6500 workers will require
significant subsidies from general revenues unless cost recovery
mechanisms for the service are rationalized and improved.
(b)   This should be an important aspect of the required review of
institutional arrangements for SWIP operations ir Jakarta and cost
recovery of SWIP services is an issue on which the Solid Waste
Strategy Study should, and is, focusing.



- 27 -
11. SWIP Investments in Denpasar Are Not Yet Yielding Optimum Benefits in Part
Due to the Status of the Operating Agency (I.E., Responsible to Kabupaten
Badung Public Works Department).
(a)   Due to its status as only an "administrative city' (rather than a
full municipal government), in Denpasar those operating the SWIP
service (and other services) are answerable to both the Mayor (City)
and the Bupati (Kabupaten). Support for SWIP service in Denpasar at
the Kabupaten level appears not as strong as the City Administration
would wish. All equipment earmarked for SWIP operations in the city
is not always used for this purpose but also for general Kabupaten
(DPU) operations. Staffing issues, and charges for service issues in
the city also require approval at Kabupaten level. Such factors have
to date adversely affected the optimum operations of the SWIP program
in Denpasar.
(b)   A possible early solution would be for SWIP operations to be given
Dinas (Departmental) status in the Kabupaten Badung and thus give it
greater control of SWIP activities (in Denpasar and other urban
centers in the Kabupaten). In the longer term if Denpasar were given
Kotamadya (City) status, the establishment of a Cleansing Department
(DKK) could be accomplished.
12. The Extension of Water Supply from Denpasar to Kuta Stimulated the Growth
in Its Area and Created An Important Potential to be Developed for
Supporting the Near-by Areas.
(a)   The extension of Water Supply from Denpasar to Kuta stimulated the
settlement growth, also the new campus of the Udayana University at
Jimbaran, caused by the project provision of reliable and adequate
water supply.
(b)   The development of tourism in the nearby areas (Kuta and Nusa Dura)
was also positively affected.
13. The CHW Programs under Urban III & IV Have Not Been A Success but Lessons
Were Learned Regarding Incentive Payments and Provision of Building Which
Have Been Takta into Account in the Successful National Integrated Health
Service Post Program (POSYANDU)
(a)   The rapid drop off in CHW activity in the Urban III Project followed
soon after' cessation of incentive payments (after 1 year of program).
Of over 40 health posts built by DKI as part of the Program few are
still used for their intended purpose due in part to poor management
and financial control by local community leaders in turr. resulting in
a lack of maintenance and the buildings falling into disrepair.
(b)   The POSYANDU program does not involve incentive payments or provide
buildings (health workers are voluntary and work from existing
buildings or from homes) and is understood to be very successful.



_ 28 -
14.  Map Availability and Mapping Expertise in Indonesia has Greatly Improved as
A Result of the Urban Mapping Component of Urban IV. However, the Need for
Line Maps and the Slow Pace of Granting of Land Titles are Major Issues to
be Addressed by the Recently National Land Agency (BPN)
(a)   The photomaps of 100 cities produced are assisting in the planning of
development programs; user needs are better known; and maps are
better stored.
(b)   However, there is still a need for good, up to date, line maps for
both planning and cadastral purposes. The Urban Sector Loan Project
is now addressing this line mapping need. This should partly assist
BPN in overcoming land problems which, because of the affect on
housing programs (private and public through PERUMNAS), is also being
addressed under the Housing Sector Loan Project.
15. Perumnas and BTN Developed over the Life of Urban IV into More Mature
Developer and Housing Finance Institutions Respectively. However Whereas
Physical Targets of the Project Were Met by Perumnas, and BTN Substantially
Increased the Number of Loans Granted, More Fundamental Issues Affecting
Perumnas and BTNn Remain to be Addressed.
(a) Perumnas benefitting from surplus local funds (Loan Balance) exceeded
Urban IV Project targets in terms of units delivered with some 17384
units funded under the Project on 10 sites in 9 cities.
(b) Less satisfactory aspects however were that beneficiaries were not
always randomly selected, a project requirement. Also community
facilities have not been provided in full by Municipal Governments
under INPRES programs as planned. Land titling bottlenecks,
difficulties in acquiring land, backlog in house sales and cash flow
problems, partly as a result of land titling delays and often
inadequate construction supervision are some of the problems
experienced by PERUMNAS during Urban IV that still require to be
addressed.
(c) BTN greatly increased housing loans made through the Project period
(600000 + in 1984 to 1350000 + in 1988). However despite substantial
technical assistance provided under the Project its rapid growth and
the growing need of housing finance particularly for the lower income
groups require it to be further strengthened and focused.
(d)   These and other issues that need to be addressed by PERUMNAS and BTN
have been recognized and are now being addressed in the Housing
Sector Loan Project.



- 29 -
16. Date Storage and Project Information System in CIPTA KARYA are in Need of
Improvement to Enable Better Monitoring of Projects and to Learn Lessons
from Past Project Experiences.
(a)   At the central level Cipta Karya has the recently established CPMO
and CPFO. It also has the longer established INTAL. The KIP
Institutional Development Study established a computer center and
Project Information System.
(b)   Data, reports and other documents prior to Urban IV are however not
apparently available in any of these offices. Such data would have
been invaluable in preparing this PCR but more importantly, in the
preparation of current strategies and guidelines for KIP and other
sectors as well as background for preparation of IUIDP's.
(c)   It is suggested that Cipta Karya should firstly identify which agency
is to be responsible for storing which data and then prepare Action
Plans to install data storage and information systems in the
respective agency(ies).
17. Technical Assistance for Improving the Administration and Collection
Systems of IPEDA in Urban IV Supported Increasing of IPEDA Revenue in 6
Cities Successfully
(a)   Technical Assistance for improvement of the administration and
collection system of Ipeda in Urban IV, supported in increasing of
IPEDA in revenue in 6 cities successfully exceeded target assumed in
appraisal from assumption of increasing revenue between 72 - 302
annually at year 1984/1985, it could be achieved increasing of IPEDA
revenue between 3742 - 929Z.
(b)   This program now being expanded and implemented in 93 cities through
Urban Sector Loan Project.
(Note: Bank has questioned above statements on grounds that it appears to mix
IPEDA-PBB efforts and DIPENDA/MAPATDA reform programs).
18. The Projects Confirmed the Relatively Weak Financial Position of Many
Cities with Municipal Government Contributions to RIP Generally Falling
Short of Planned Amounts.
(a)   In Surabaya and Ujung Pandang in Urban III and in all Urban IV cities
except Denpasar, Municipal Government contributed less than planned
(at appraisal) to the KIP's whereas Central Governments contributions
generally increased.
(b)   Ujung Pandang received the most generous support from Central
Government benefitting from savings from other budgets (ABT) which in
effect substituted local funding as did 'Perintisan' funds.



- 30 -
(c)   Devaluation and the Perintisan Project made more rupiahs available of
the cities for the Project and appeared to disguise the need for the
provision of all local (APBD II) funds and, possibly, the need by the
cities to improve local resource generation.
(d)   It is clearly important for greater efforts to be made to increase
local revenues (and eliminate any increasing expenditures of course)
and the new taxation system (PBB) gives much greater potential for
doing so. The IUIDP should give necessary focus to this aspect of
city development.
19. In Addition to Central Government Contributions to KIP (and other Sector3)
in Urban III & IV the Ministry of Finance was Also Required to Prefinance
the Banks Loan Contribution Prior to Disbursement which Followed the
Satisfactory Carrying Out of Works and Reimbursement Application. This
Placed an Additional Financial Burden on GOI.
(a)   Under the Urban III and IV Bank Loan funds were disbursed on
satisfactory completion of contracts or stages of contracts and the
submission of properly certified and signed reimbursement
applications to the Bank. In the meantime in order that suppliers,
contractors and consultants were paid for services rendered to
executing agencies, GOI 'prefinanced' that portion of the component
which was reimbursable by the Bank (percentages varied dependent on
component and project). The period from expenditures to disbursement
varied but was quite commonly about 6 months.
(b)   Whereas in Urban III and IV no great difficulties were experienced
from the executing agencies viewpoint (ie. GOI provided funds usually
in a timely way) the procedures nevertheless placed a heavy financial
burden on GOI and the whole reimbursement application/disbursement
cycle was somewhat cumbersome.
(c)   To overcome this problem and to endeavor to accelerate disbursements
the Urban Sector Loan Project proposed the Special Account concept
used on many other Bank projects elsewhere. Here a Special Project
Account is established which, after an initial deposit, is topped
up' by the Bank following payment of Project expenditures therefrom.
This should simplify procedures and reduce GOI financial burden
related to Bank Loans in future.
20. The Projects Experienced Relatively Few Procurement Difficulties and as
with Past Projects Particularly KIP, Local Procedures were Generally Quick,
Enabling the KIP Annual Cycle to be Followed. Problems that did occur
where on Contracts Procured through ICB Procedures.
(a)   The Projects again demonstrated the efficiency (generally) in
following LCB procedures for most urban development projects in
Indonesia which by their nature normally fail to attract foreign
bidders (other than for large equipment supply contracts). Much time



- 31 -
and effort is however often taken up in following the necessary
guidelines.
(b)   Indonesian civil engineering contractors have developed rapidly
through the last decade or so and foreign contractors have difficulty
competing. Thus for civil engineering works in multi sectoral
(Urban) projects LCB procedures would appear to be the most efficient
way of procurement.
(Note: Differing Bank assessment of procurement under these project has been
expressed to and understood by GOI.)
21. The Experience and Lessons Learning during the Implementation or Urban III
and IV appear to have Influernced the Scope of the Urban V Project and of
the Housing Sector and Urban Sector Loan Projects.
(a)   Many of the problems and issues arising in Urban III and IV are being
addressed and successful components replicated in the subsequent
urban sector Projects supported by the Bank. These include:
-    Operation and maintenance and general municipal management
-    Integrated development
-    Improved local revenue mobilization (PBB)
-    Improved PPBS systems locally
-    Improved 'prefinancing' arrangements with the 'Special Account'
concept replacing the former 'slow disbursement cycle
-    Greater focus on city wide drainage needs of cities
-    Greater regional autonomy and administration of development projects
-    The need to consolidate funding for development projects
-    Greater focus on manpower development in the urban development sector
-    Line mapping
-    Study into land titling
-    Housing finance for low income groups
-    Further strengthening of organization, management and financing of
housing sector institution (PERUMNAS and BTN)
B. Summary of Bank Role and Performance
2.1       The Bank's performance under both Projects was generally satisfactory
and the relationship with the Borrower and the executing agencies generally
good. However there were a number of areas where it appears Bank performance
could have been better and where a more positive position could have been taken.
These are discussed below.
A. Urban III
2.2        Urban III was a relatively simple Project building largely on the KIP
experience gained in the first two projects. Two components were not perhaps
developed sufficiently, nor problems and initiatives being taken by government
at the time of appraisal, sufficiently well identified and taken into account.
These two components, small business development and land registration were thus



- 32 -
not implemented under the Project as other corresponding initiatives were
already underway.
2.3        Apart from this the scope and scheduling of the Project was generally
realistic excepting that of the Solid Waste Management programs in Jakarta and
Surabaya. The schedule showed implementation going through to April 1984
(international procurement) but with an overall Project Implementation period of
5 years scheduled for completion concurrently. Given the nature of the program
and the fact that ICB was involved such a schedule was overly optimistic and
proved to be the case. (See para. 3.40). In Jakarta there also appears to have
been little focus on cost recovery opportunities but a heavy emphasis on
'physical' improvements.
2.4        The start up of the Project could have been quicker and given the
fact that new KIP Units were to be established in 3 cities and with cities
having little exposure to international funding agencies more support could have
been given to the cities from the Bank (either from HQ or RSI) as well as from
central government. Cipta Karya could also have been quicker in engaging KIP
consultants to assist the cities which may have helped with the earlier start up
difficulties but knowing of the delays in engaging consultants the Bank could
itself have supported the cities more by direct supervision in the early stages
of the Project.
2.5       Two important areas where perhaps the Bank should have adopted a
firmer position were on cost recovery where greater focus on the IPEDA tax
system and its constraints and opportunities was required and on establishment
of operation and maintenance (O&M) arrangements for facilities provided under
the Project. Although there is an O&M covenant in the Loan Agreement it is
difficult to see how this would, or could be enforced. More tangible support
was, and still is, required for O&M as the condition of infrastructure provided
under the Project (and earlier projects) is beginning to shown signs of
distress.
2.6       Probably the most serious failing of the Bank and which embraces the
two earlier points was in the level of supervision given to the project. In the
cities outside of Jakarta Bank staff probably spent no more than 3-4 days per
year which given, i) the secondary cities (Ujung Pandang, Semarang and
Surakarta) were new to the Bank, ii) the Bank's knowledge of the limitations of
the Directorate of Housing, and, iii) the longer term strategy of
decentralization was hardly sufficient to adequately get to knc-w the problems,
the cities and the local problems faced in the planning, implementation and
financing of projects. With regard to secondary cities this shortcoming in Bank
performance was probably even greater in Urban IV where more far flung cities,
generally smaller and with less experienced and exposed Municipal Governments
supported by less experienced consultants were involved.
2.7       In Jakarta and Surabaya also a more active involvement by Bank staff
at an earlier stage may well have resolved some of the problems experienced, for
example in the SWIP program and the CHW program, and perhaps have avoided delay
and expense. Also until recently with establishment of CPMO and CPFO there was
no organized information system or data base in Cipta Karya and the Bank could



- 33 -
have also been more active in endeavoring to ensure the executing Directorates
in Cipta Karya kept better data files. This factor has seriously hampered the
work of preparing this comprehensive Projects Completion Report but more
importantly 't would have greatly assisted agencies and consultants now
preparing various sector strategy policy papers and preparing IUIDP's.
B. Urban IV
2.8       In Urban IV the Bank's challenge was to support government in
developing its national policy for KIP in important provincial capitals and also
to tackle the growing housing problem of the less well orf in urban areas. This
involved working again with PERUMNAj (established under the first Bank Project
in 1974) and also in addressing housing finance problems and the needs of the
State Savings Bank. In addition a massive urban mapping program (possibly the
largest ever Bank financed) was included. This given the complexity of the
Project and given that two devaluations of the rupiah occurred during the course
of the Project which led to increased provision of infrastructure, the
substantial achievement of Project objectives generally reflects well on the
Bank and Government.
2.9       The scope and scheduling of certain components was however optimistic.
The tasks of photographing and mapping (photomaps) 100 cities spread over
Indonesia was vast and the schedule very optimistic. It also appears that more
attention on the outputs and their potential usage (and security constraints)
would have been useful. The storage aspects for the vast quantities of
materials produced also appears not to have been fully recognized. Finally the
fact that line maps were not an output, only photomaps, limited the
effectiveness of the program which currently the Urban Sector Loan is
addressing.
2.10      The efficacy of designing, implementing, managing, and properly
supervising a project in 15 cities in 7 provinces (including KIP and major
housing sub-projects) must be questioned. The task of preparing such a project
given that consultants were necessary for preparation of much of it, in view of
limited local capacity for project preparation, was itself a major logistical
exercise. The Bank must share some of the responsibility for the shortcomings
of, for example KIP projects, elements of which have not received the support
of, or appear not to have been understood by Municipal Governments (eg. CHW
program, INPRES financing of health and education facilities) because they have
not been prepared in suff4cient detail and/or have received an insufficient
level of supervision in part due to the far flung project locations. The
current regional approach to the preparation of IUIDP's appears to have learned
from this Urban IV experience.
2.11      Whereas despite the shortcomings referred to above the KIP was
successful, concerns raised by the appraisal mission regarding the various
subprograms and budgets making up KIP and the caution that the approach was
getting away from the 'comprehensive and integrated' concept proved genuine
fears. Problems of coordination and overlap persisted for some considerable
time.



- 34 -
2.12      The support by the Bank of essentially local government programs and
the fact that the Project began to look more closely at local revenues and the
need to strengthen local resource bases was an important step toward greater
decentralization of responsibilities, stronger local government and less
reliance on Central Government (although perhaps more direct support for of
existing key Municipal Government Departments should have been a feature of the
Project). These are important aspects of urban strategy in Indonesia and with
Central Government financial constraints have taken on even greater importance.
2.13      Finally the Bank was very supportive of Government as regards the
devaluations of the rupiah that occurred and the agreement to use the 'Loan
Balance' to fund additional work. This utilized what would have been
undisbursed loan funds and benefitted considerably more people than originally
planned largely from the lower income groups.



- 35 -
INDONESIA
THIRD AND FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (LOANS 1653-IND AND 1972-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORI
PART III: PROJECT PROFILE
Table 1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan/Credit                           Year of
Title            Purpose           Approval  Status       Comments
Proceeding Projects:
1. Jakarta Urban Devel.  KIP & Hsng         1974    Completed  PPAR - Report
(Loan 1040-IND)      Site/Services                           No. 4620 June
in Jakarta Area                         30, 1983
2. Second Urban Devel.   KIP & Other        1977    Completed  PPAR - Report
(Loan 1336-IND)      Components in                           No. 6329 June
Jakarta &                               27, 1986
Surabaya
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------
Following Projects:
1.  Fifth Urban Devel.   Expansion of       1984    On-going   Excellent Per-
(Loan 2408-IND)     Program in Urban                        formance by
III Cities (w/o                         Urban III
Jakarta)                                Cities
2.  Housing Sector      Strengthen          1986    On-going   Major Policy-
Loan (Loan 2725-    Housing Finance                          Based Operation
IND)            System & Institutions
3. Urban Sector Loan   Implementation of  1987    On-going   Major Policy-
(Loan 2816-IND)     Sector Policy                           Based Operation
Action Plan



- 36 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE SUMMARY
Project Name:               Third Urban Development      Fourth Urban Development
Project                      Project
Loan Numbers                1653 - IND                   1972 - IND
Schedule:
Project
Identification            September 1977               February 1979
Appraisal Mission           June/July 1978               May 1980
Loan Negotiation            November 28-Dec. 5, 1978    February 23-March 4, 1981
Final SAR Date              December 12, 1978            March 16, 1981
Board Approval              January 16, 1979             April 21, 1981
Loan Signature              January 31, 1979             May 8, 1981
Loan Effectiveness          September 26, 1979           September 9, 1981
Scheduled Completion        December 31, 1983            December 31, 1985
Actual Completion           March 31, 1987               February 28, 1988
Scheduled Closing Date      June 30, 1984                June 30, 1986
Actual Loan Closing         June 26, 1987                April 15, 1988
Comments: Delays between Loan Signature and Effectiveness primarily due to lengthy
negotiations of subsidiary lending agreements between GOI Ministry of
Finance and Municipal Governments (with Ministry of Home Affairs).



- 37 -
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Urban III (1653-IND)
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84   FY85    FY86    FY87
Appraisal Estimate       7,690   20,380  36,800  47,700  51,770 54,000       -      -
Actual Disbursement        154   10,445  21,675  33,074  37,529 43,299   46,115  51,468
Actual as 2 of Est.         2Z      512     592      692     722    80s    85Z    95Z
Date of Final Disbursement: June 26, 1987
Urban IV (1972-IND)
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88
Appraisal Estimate       4,010   16,210  28,690  40,000  42,950 43,000      -
Actual Disbursement      1,380    6,018  13,389  19,371  24,326 30,934  42,444
Actual as 2 of Est.        352      372     472      492     572    722     992
Date of Final Disbursement:  April 15, 1988



Table 4 A: PROJECT I14PLEMENTATION INDICATOPS
PCR URBAN III
KIP - A3RAS IHPmUPRD, BENEFICIARIES AND UNIT COSTS
4             _----1- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AREA UPGRADED      POPULATION       : PER CAPITA COST : PER CAPITA COST: PER IlECTARE COST   PER IIECTARE COST
(Ra)             COVERED                 ( Rps )            ( US S )   :  (Rp.Thousand)          ( US S )
C I T Y                       ----- -        -     --       -          - - --------- -------- -              5    '-t
:S A B   ACTUAL6   S A R  : ACTUAL       S A R : ACTUAL  :S A R : ACTUAL    S A R  : ACTUAL : S A R  : ACTUAL
:~~~~~~~----- --------  ----- ----- -------- ------- -------- ---------____                        ---------_____
:V R B A N  III:                :                                         I       |t:       
.      .        .          .           .                   a                     
JAXARTA        1 750    1,410   210,000    504,092   43,125 ' 61,005 1   69 :           86   12,125 1 21,810 : 19,400    30,893
:SURABATA      : 580        908 5 275,000    344,300   21,875 1 24,095 1   35            34   10,422    9,137 1 16,675 1  12,841
IUJUNGPANDUAG  : 375        460   137,000 : 171,000 : 24,375 1 26,497 :   39 1           40 : 8,875 1 9,850 : 14,200 t 15,043
:SEMARANG      I 310        417 1 95,000    196,658 t 27,500 :  18,204        44         27 1 8,875    8,585   14,200 1  12,781
ISURAKARTA     ,  170       210 ' 49,000 ,   51,200   21,875 ' 31,172         35         46    6,343 1 7,600 1 10,150 '  11,285
- -- --- --- -- --- --- --- --  -- -- -  -- - - - * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---------__ _ _ *_ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
T 0 T A 1L  :2,185    3,405   766,000 :1,267,250 : 27,750 : 38,488 :   55 :           47 1 9,328 : 14,318 : 14,925 : 20,429 a
a---   *                                                                                                                    a~-- - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - 0
N 0 T 8 S ;    - Jakarta Based on Data MIIT Project (1978/1980 - 1883/1984)                                   * = Average
a              a  cost are rounded.
- Jakarta : total cost  Rp.  30,752,000,000.00
- Surabaya: total cost  Rp.   8,296,000,000.00
:  - Ujung Pandang:ttl costRp.   4,631,000,000.00
- Semarang   total cost Rp.   3,580,000,000.00
-'Surakarta   total costRp.   1,596,000,000.00                                                                    a
-S
Source:  COI PCR  



- 39 -
Table 4 B: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
PCR URBAN III
JAXARTA SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT AND COST
QUANTITIES         COST  (Rp. MILLION)
SUB COMPONENT ,        - --- -    -- _                             __ ,
I*:  S A R                                  ACTUAL       S A R       ACTUAL
:I. LAND                     t                              950: 
Ill. CIVIL WORKS                                           2,616
- Transfer Depo                 180          39         (a) :    812.045
- Kelurahan Offices     ,        16           0         (a)             0
- Sanitary Land fill           item           2         (a)       121.298
- Garages                         3           o         (a)       -        ,
:   Transito                      0          63         (a)       238.228
Others                ,                     I         (a)       242.340'
a                            t          ..           .           .             S
111. VEHICLES    .                    93           -       2,020         0.000
Arm Roll  Truck               (a)          29         (a)       269.501
= Compactor Truck               (a)         120         (a)     3,589.539
T Tipery Truck                  (a) ,       150 t       (a)     1,143.694
:   = Vacuum  Tank Truck             (a)           3         (a)        60.596
'IV. HEAVY EQUIPMENT                                 ,
- Swamp Shovel                  (a)           2         (a) I
- Buldozer                      (a) I         3         (a)       250.626
- Excavator                     (a)                     (a)       115.000
Wheel Loader                  (a)          b0         (a)       716.529
$V. EQUIPMENT                t
- Carts                         (a)       2,503         998       897.557
- Bins (household)              (a)      15,834           0       244.439
- Container                     (a)       3.555           0 I  1,270.448
- Others                        (a)           1           0 t      4.185
*                            S           I           S           .             I
:VI. PILOT STUDY                       1:          1        291:       89.558
t   - Physical Contingencies'        (a):          0         562         0.000:
- Price Contingencies   t       (a)           0 '    2,667 t        0.000
T OT  A L                                  S   10,104 t 10,065.583
(a) not detailed In GAM
Sources: GOI PCR



- 40 -
Table 4 C: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
PCR URBAN III
SURABAkA SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENTS AND COST
1*======----------------
QUANTITIES       C O S T S (Rp. Mill):
SUB COMPONENT     '--------------- ---------------------
Is  SAR    ' ACTUAL       SAR    I ACTUAL
1     LAND                      (a)         0           92         0
:II    CIVIL WORKS                                           A
Transfer Depot             27         18         (a)    :170.709
Garages                    1          2          (a)
Workshop                  (a)         4         '(a)       218.472
Sanitary Landfill         item        0          item        0
:                          a
400       389.181
V : Vehicles                 6
- Tractors                 60         0          (a)         0
- Trailer                 180         0          (a)    a     -
- Dozer                   (a)         2          (a)       248.956
- Truck                    (a)         29        (a)       984.320
- Others                    (a)         1         (a)         37.500
]~~~~                 ~    ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *      a
a    a                       :          :             1,000   :2,049.138
.3   ' Equipment                                               a
3    : - Cart                    401        857        231        214.958
-       B i n s              0        2,371        0          12.880
- Other                    0          0          0         254.367
231       482.205
a    *                       *          a           a          a 
Pilot Studies              I          1 1       222          0
a    *                       a                                      0     
*    a                       a          *           a          a          a
a    *                       *          a           *          *          a
a                                           *                        .a
Physical Contingencies:  (a)          1         197        109.000
|~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                           19 *       109.000 
Price Contingencies       (a)                   386         60.000
2,528   :2,311.953
Note;
(a) not detailed in SAR
Source: GOI PCR.



- 41 -
Table 4 D: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
PCR URBAN III
DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
SURABAYA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *         I             
*            SUB COMPONENT           ,   SAR      t  ACTUAL
I                                    *            * m
:                                                              :
1  '* SILT removed                   :260,000 M3  14. 260,000 M3
'II  * Canal Improvement.
- Greges canal                 3.7 Km           (b)
- Kalidami canal              '5.1 Km       4.3 Km
- Kalisoma canal              '    0       1O.9 Km
' 1 - Tambak Wedi  canal               0      '2.9 Km      I
' - Kali Darmo canal                   0      10.8 Km
- Hayam Wuruk canal           '    0       11.5 Km
:TIII* Pumping Stations Improvement
Kupang                           (a)      '4 pump     -
* : - Darmo                               (a)      3 pump
3   I - Gunung Sari                  , (a)         5 pump
t   - Bratang                         (a)     t5 pump
t   *                                S       .    a
'IV 1* Area Benefitting              :1,000 Ha    13,515 Ha
IV  I* Families disposal by dredging I            I
- Greges canal                 I   500            0 
I   I - Kalidami canal               :100-200     1200 (c)
*   *                                a           *             a 
NOTE:
1 .  DRIP continuing in Urban V Project
(a).  Pump requirement not detailed in SAR
(b).  Detail design only - other cannal subsituted
(c).  Families relocated to Lakarsantri .
Compensation paid Families paying the new plots by
installments
Source: GOI PCR



Table 4 E:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
PCR {RBAAN IV
KIP - AREAS IMPROVED, DUEFICIARIES AND UNIT COSTS
:NEA UPGRADEDs   POPULATION       PER CAPITA COST  PEB CAPITA COST: PER  MECTABE COST  IPE IIECTARE COST
: (1,        '      COVE8ED             (RP.)             US$ )         lRp. THOUSAND)   :   (USs)
CITY                                              - T 
:SAR  :ACTUAL:S A R    ACTUAL S:AR    ACTUAL  S 5 A RI   ACTUAL :S A RN   ACTUAL   S A R  : ACTAL
'BANJARM8IN  J 270:   71 1 86,130 :214,173  28,593.8   22,097  45.75   15.91  9,107.5   7,053.0   14,572   5,079.65
PONTIANAK       420    620  88,200  128,000   28,475.0  39,150   45.56   32.63   5,966.9  8,082.6   9,547   6,737.20
SAMABINDA    : 210   975 : 85,080 :189,455  22,081.3   17,275   35.33   12.71   8,938.1  3,356.8  14,301   2,469.41
DENPASAR        430 I 680 : 36,120 :105,114   46,862.5 128,025   7 74.98   15.43   3,923.1   4,332.1    6,277   2,385.33
:PADANG         260 : 358 : 47,060 : 78,994 1 45,937.5 : 74,601   73.50 t 33.36 ' 8,303.8 :16,461.1 : 13,286   7,360.26
IPALEMOANG      320 : 445 :157,440 :182,924   17,906.3 141,683   28.65 t 26.42  8,784.4 :17,134.4   14,055 :10,861.96
T O TA L  :1,910 :3,749 '500,030 :898,660 :31,642.7 *,32,811 *:50.63 * 21.23 *17,504.0 *18,473.8 *:12,006 *:5,484.9 * I
- 2 2 2 U   I   ______________________________________________c______=S= =- ===__ _==__ =   - - -
NOTE
US $ 1 = Rp.   625  (SA)                                                                           *    Average
USf1  a Bp.   925  (March, 1983)
US $ 1 = Up. 1,645  (Sept., 1986)
NB. Given tbo two devaluations tho actual US $ per capita
and per hectare costs appear low when compared with SAR
costs. Rupiah costs are a bettor comparison.
Source: GOI PCR



- 43 -
** n.- ---------  -----------------------
.-
i            * ~~- - -- - - -- - - ----   --_ f
. .                         ....
II         -.o -                                            " 
_   I   ----------,---.-...                         i -
|~~~~.   .4         $.  C,                                      Ii .
--    i       --   -------------------------------------- -------------
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                   ss         0
s~~~~~~~~~- 3* C4 .4 * *                        .          ..
..  _ _.__ _ _ ____ -------------- --------------
.4  -   .4           W  -         .  -         !
-     --   -    .   -_        -              -   -    .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.                                                         . :
t  | g~~~~~~~~~~~~I               si           .4                   .,  ,,,   4_
--fi          I  S  '                                               I ,-- - ----
5       d        .. .4~  a   a.................a...a...a.. . . .I
!F   !    fl S w , W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Ia                     "  I- t 
..   E   E  _____.____ _.__ _ _______ _._ ___ __-
P8                                              a   a   a       ,,i
*S    -                _           -                                
~  34,,                                                                -  --    --  _        ,a
|~~~~~~~. r-  -4   _ .- i4.4.4.
|~~ ~~  a                      .4            Xa1Sif  
__--__                                      -C----.    ... _   .. .. ____ _................ _.  ____ ............ .__ __..............



- 44 -
Tnble 4 C: PROJECT TfPT,EMENTATION INDICAIY)RS
PCR URBAN IV
PLANNING & IMPLEMENTATION OF DENPASAR
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
No  :                                 :  ACTUAL        P L A N  (*)
:I   ALAND ACQUISITION
1 Transfer Depot                        1,900 m2   :       8 Unit
:II    CIVIL WORKS
1 :Transfer Depot                          17 Unit        20 Unit
2  Work Shop                               81 m2          100 m2
3 :Storage                                 81 m2   :     100 m2
4 :Parking Area                     :   1,321 m2   :        1 Unit
5  Embankment Sanitary Land fill        1,050 m          80Q m
6 :Soil For Sanitary Land fill          7,000 m3      25,000 m3
7 :Road to Sanitary Land Fill          ---             1,500 m
:111  :EQUIPMENT
1 :B i n (120 L)                       2,250 Unit :   2,250 Unit
2 :B i n (70 L)                            50 Unit :       50 Unit
3 :B i n (40 L)                         ---   Unit    54,968 Unit
4 :Hand Cart (0,5 m3)                     375 Unit        375 Unit
5 :P u. p 
* 6000 L/mnt,head = 5 m                  I Unit         2 Unit
* 150 m3/Hr,head = 5 m                   I Unit        --
* 1200 L/mnt,head = 5 m                  1 Unit        --
6 :Workshop Equipment :
: Vertikal Boring machine                3 Unit          3 Unit
Compressor (90-100 L)                  2 Unit :       2 Unit
:      * Carbide Welder (4 Kg)                  3 Unit          3 Unit
* Electric Welder                        2 Unit         2 Unit
* Wind   (2 tonne)                       2 Unit         2 Unit
* Bench Vice                             4 Unit         4 Unit
J a c k  (5 Tonne)                       2 Unit         2 Unit
* Grindstone machine (lKw)               2 Unit         2 Unit
G* rindstone machine (0,5Kw)             3 Unit         3 Unit
* Tools                                 15 Set         15 Set
7 :Spare Parts & Consuwmable goods
* Injector Diesel                        3 Unit         3 Unit
* Air pressure Gauge                     3 Unit         3 Unit
* Freeley (clearance) gauge              3 Unit         3 Unit
8 :T r u c k (2,5 tonne)                   21 Unit         21 Unit
:   9 :Dump truck                               7 Unit          7 Unit
10  Pick Up                          i       2 Unit          2 Unit
11 :M o t o r                               10 Unit         10 Unit
12 :Sweep Bulldozer (90 Hp)                  I Unit          1 Unit
13:Excav,ator (80 Hp)                        1 Unit          1 Unit
14 :Multi Loader Crane (1 tonne)             I Unit          I Unit
15 :Dump Truck with Crane (1 tonne)          1 Unit          1 Unit
16 :Hydraulic Arm Roll                       2 Unit        --
17 :Truck & Refuse Container                 3 Unit        -
18 :Tracked Bulldozer                        I Unit          I Unit
Note: (*) based on design of
Solid Waste Management System at
Denpasar by Consultant                 Source:  MOI PCR



- 45 -
Table 4 H: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
PCR URBAN IV
DENPASAR CITY WIDE IIPR0VEMENTS
SWM VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
List of Equipment contracs procured following ICB procedure
No           EQUIPMENTS           qUALITY    VALUE US $  .
1 !Truck, 2.5 Tonne capacity            21     163,692
1 2 :Duap truck, 2.5 Tonne '
Icapacity                      I         7I      64,173
3 ',Bulldozer 80 Hp                       1s    44,1221
4 iMhlti Loider Crace 80ip    ;           1       13,726.;  *
: 5 Dump Truck with crane 80 Hp           1 '    15,526
6 :Hydraulic Exavator 80 Hp              1      45,261
'I 'Tracked Bulldozer                     1    59,800 '
' 8 IKotor Cycle 100 CC                  10       10,435 -
9 Hydraulic Arm Roll aruck
' . 'with 3 Unit Container 6 *3  '        2 '    46,475 6
110 :Pick Up 1000 CC                      2 '    14,556
'         T O T A L                          477,766
Source: GO PCR



- 46 -
Table GA: PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
SAR Cost Estimate                      Actual Costs
Component                              Rp. mill        US1 mill              Rp. mill    US1 ml.l l
Third Urban Development Project
A.  Jakarta
KIP                                21,201           33.92                80,762       4a.66s
SWIP                               10,104           18.17                10,008        8.019
CHW Posta                             186            0.17                    42        0.066
81,470          w.                   40,seo 76N.84
B.   Surabaa
KIP                                 8,198           13.12                 8,298       11.662
Drainage                            2,528            4.04                 2,628        8.119
SWIP                                4,112            6.68                 2,812        3.226
CHW                                   137            0.22                    90        0.124
14,976          23.96                13,221        18,180
C.   Ujung Pandang KIP                   4,615            7.22                 4,630        6.915
D.   Semarang KIP                        3,600            5.78                 3,680        5.332
E.  Surakarta KIP                        1,486            2.34                 1,696        2.386
F.   Land Regist.                          460            0.72                     0            0
0.   Tech Aset.                          35626            6.64                 4.864        6.128
Urban III Grand Total                   6o.ooo           98.00                68.6490.511
Fourth Urban DevelomEgnt Project
A.   KIP
s-anj a meIn                        3,199            6.10                 4,733        4.482
Ponti*nak                           3,264            6.20                 4,981        6.516
Samarinda                           2,460            3.92                 3,273        3.593
Padang                              2,921            4.68                 6,893        6.295
Palembang                           3 658            5.87                 7,625        7.834
Subteotal                       222050           3.50                 2,489          i.I9
S.  Ci;e  Wid  - DenDassar
MrP     -8942                                       1.60                 1,156        0.912
Water Supply                        1 258            2.00                 1.314        1.181
oubtetal                         22,489 
C.  Sites S Services
Samarinda                           1,292            2.07                 1,669
Denpasear                           6,229            9.97                 4,873        7.198
Yogyakarta                          5,423            8.68                8,384
Others                              s.74            13.99                 8,788       14.282
Subtotal                        21,689          34.71                 18,584       21.480
D.   Urban Mpoing
Services                            6,346            8.66                 5,291        8,460
Equipment                             626            1.00                   626        1 000
Subtot l                                                               5,9TO S ,916-s o
E    Consultants T.A.                    6,196            9.91                17,207       14,694
Urban NV Grand Totale                   53,742           86.90                73Z627       78.766



Table 5 B:  FINANCING PLANS                                   nape 'A Of 
PCR URBAN III
S O U R C ES   O F   F U N D S  /  F I N A N C I N O   P L A N S   (U R B A N  III)
(All Costs In Rp. Million)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
I t    TOTAL  COST        WORLD  BANK            CENTRAiD            PROVINCIAL             LOCAL
PROJECT COMPONENT                                      OAAN       :     GOVERNMENT    a    GOVERNMENT    I    GOVERNMENT
B 8AR       ACTUAL      SAR      ACTUAL      SAR   I ACTUAL       SARl    ACTUAL  1  SAR       ACTUAL
'A. JAKARTA                  a          a                    a
a  Kampung Improvement       U  21,201 , 30,752 1  9,670         9,357          0  1     0          0         0    11,531    21,395
a  Solid Waste Management        10,104 1 10,065 :  5,930     5,870           400 1       0 :        0         0      3,774 :  4,196
a  Health Posts & training          165 :      43          0 Is      0          0         0            l0     a0        165:       43
s/t :   31,470 1 40,860    15,600 : 15,227           400         0          0 :       0 :  15,470 : 25,634
IS. SURABAYA                 a          a          a         a          a
Rampung Inprovement      :    8,198 1  8,296 1  5,093        5,920          0         0         0         0 2   3,105      2,375 i
Drainage                 21   2,528     2,523      1,570      1,524 1       0       421 1        0         0        577 :   1,002 :
Solid Waste Management        4,112 :  2,311       2,554     1,725 '        0         0 :        0         0      1,558       587 1
Health Training          H      137         91e                    10:      00:       O :O                 O       137:       91
a.                                                                                                      a
a                        /st U   14,975 1 13,221 :  9,217        9,169 1        0       421 I        0         0     5,377      4,055
:C. UJUNG PANDANG            U    4,515 2  4,531 1  2,803 1  2,800            672 ,  1,071 '       375 *     375 :      665 *     284
:D. SEMARANG    KIP          '   3,600      3,580      2,278     2,271        532 1     481 ,      251*      250        539 *     5771
:R. SURAKARTA                i    1,466 '   1.596 '      898 1     898 '      217 '     328 ,      112 *     109 '      238 *     261
:F. LAND REGISTRATION        I,     450          0         0'        0 '      450 '       0.         0 |       O '        '
'0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    j   3,525 ' 4,854   1  2,954 ,  4,620 '           571 1     233 |        0 |0 0 i                      0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:/t U   13,555 : 14,561 :  8,933 1 10,589          2,442 :  2,113 2       738       734      1,442 :   1,122
---______________________________--------_----------_---------                                      -----------------------------------4
*       GRAND  TOTAL         U  60,000    68,642 -  33,750 -   34,985  -  2,842 :  2,534 - -738              734 1 22,289 : 30,811
* SAR assumed one budget for provicial and local
Source:  rXoI PcR



V1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~~                   ~             P
0                                                                                      ii~~~~~~~04" 0
*   -  .  -  -    .--.*               -               I~~~~~~~~Ii9rr  Z ?1 ?.                  0., 
-         -                --.----------RI~~~~----    -----                        --
44   .4    -I    0~~~~~.          rg C           4         A        03a 4v 0  p tao  U-  o.  lB.  a3Ua  4]  6
00r:       .   . ?" .am        0      tp        o      !" ...
Co- 0   0          00-0 C 0 04    0   co    a  0=040
0           0      0 0                      GM00     0       0 0            00a
U                                 0         0                               0         0
*  *  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                              -         -~~~~~  . r
UV                 co 0           0      0 0                                o    O
0                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oW!     0C
-------------- -
#4                  -~~~~~~~s  04           aPoI
0o0             01                 0         0          00     00 ,
1-i~~~~~~~~~~~? I*                               ll In
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--   --------                                         1--------
*   w                                                00 ~~~~~~~wCa            W
--   - ----        --- 
CD
0   0- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O*1t
I  :IH [~~~~4   a           0
CR~          i~                    000
-   -    - ---    -                --- -0  --     --   0--- -         -- -- -- - -- -- --     -
--0 -----------------00--------------                                          00--------



Table 6 A:  PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY                                    Page 1 of 2
KIP TABLES
PCR URBAN III
IIP IYUSTRUCMU  PLANING CRITERIA, STiNDARDS, SEIVICE LlEVLS.
SERVCIC LEVELS UND STUADAS                                         QUANTITIES                            a
SUCONPONeNTS         - ---- --------------------------------------------------------------------------                  C I T I    5S
a  a  A                          ACTUAL          : s A a    :   ACTUL                         U
QaA           I                                                                  a*             aIa
1. 1   A D               A,ll dvillings vithin max distance         ',idth : 4-6              'not        '190,94? a      JAUARTA
:of 100 a tron l-val road or 300 a         'Road length =39s/ha  :detailed   133,891 a          'SU'AIAA         a
4 or 6 * vidth       :fron 2-ay road;                             :1 (2-5) a              'at app    '3t,664 a        'WJUN  PUNDUGt
Raege for I-raY  road :5   - l00 a/ha  1 (4-2.51 a                                    a      :1ANSU& G 
6,8,10 a row         a Target for 1-way road   60    b /h a          (t-31 a                           34,25    *  :SUAUSRTA
Range tor  -va   road - Is - 35  a/bz                                I---------------------------------------
Target for 2-way road   20 a/ha                                   a            34?,033    a:        TOTAL
2. FOOTPATBS            ,P.ued footpaths to vithin 20 a              ,vidtb : 2-3             'not        "510,310 *    :J&AuTA
'at every odvelling                         :Row z 3- soref          'detailed  '105,051    aSUTA 
1.5 - 3 a vidth                          'V :0.o - 2 a                                    ,at app  '42,219 *          ,UJUG PANDANG 
'                                           '11 aa.1 2     .- 1a5 a                   q,c2S   a  oSEwANU,a        a
3 - 6Sa row                                                       I V     (  -  28 a                    ,e,109 a      ,SUUUARTA
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-----  -------  -----------
Ia tertiary paths  :                                              a                       a            112,434      a        TOTAL
3. DURAIAE               :Open secondary drains along road and                                'not        :105,140 *       JALITA           a
:footpaths, Primary drains as required  :   0.2 - 0.5 ) a            'detail d               a',15t    u   SURABYA a
concrete opea                                                                             'at app    :46,210 a        ,UJUNG PINDUIG
drains  ith          ,                                                                                 16,71a   a    ,SIII&UC 
culvects as                                                       a                       a           ,92,5t51 a       SUUL&RTA
necessary                                                                                  ----------  -------------  ---- -----------
a                                           a                        a           i:31,155     a        TOTAL
'4. VATER SUPPLY         :Design for 60 Ipcd vith I public tap   i1 tap for 1.35 ha    'Aot                3 niDi plant 'JAUITA
'stan4pipe for each IT                                               ' ,detailed  1, deep vell  :                 a
Coanri en   to city  (l20 to So fuilitem                                                 '. 't app      ,isa p.t5p  1 
main of deep wells                                                a                       a           a469 p.tap    ,SURA&TA            a
u  appropriate       a                                                                                 303 p.tap      '0JUUG PANDANG
O   O                                      :                        O           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~411 p.tap    '5RUILNO 
It                                                                                             1           '  9   *8dJ    iO
,                                          0                        :           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,13t p.tap    :SURAUIt& 
a  a                                       a                                    aiim    e.~    ~~ aQv,,          a
OT Op,tap,        :sURAUTOTAL 
,5. SWlSATIN             ',Pit privies for individual fuilies                                  fi ,at      "l met         pALLITA  
:zad household ,groups vhere sail           ,FCt I seat zad I seat',fitailed  1,6,3112 pit.pn,                    :
, itpaiFieS and          gcoaditica peasit                                                                                a Ca's in otber  ,:t *pP    ,196 ICl  'SDU1BTI
;cora uity toilet    :areas at rat of I toilet geat per 12:                                   :            ,IIlCI         ',JONG PllDLnG
,  wrd vushing          ,tiuilies                                  10                       11           ,90 NCI         ,SlIIUUF
,fasilities (KtCtl  01                                                                       :,3&4 pit PCT. 1
:                       t                       O            ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~101 ICE  ,SUUURIT
i                        a                                            a                       a            a              I      TOTAL
:s. SOLID ISTA I         :Hid catt p  es  o   r indiidall cities                              :not         ,99 Carts      :JAILATA
t ANACU,.   household2   seat   and 4                                                      detailed   ',10    p        SUUBATA 
'Ctrt A bin c'it app    ,29t Bias                   -UJUNG PNDANA    G
toilet      areaato  reaicles of  troilers  i p Jatia                           ,                 Carts
a  andwashing            :fand sur bala olI                                                                ',Ii Bits aS 1G
t                       ,                       ,            ,'~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~    ~~~~161 Carts ,  
a                                                                                             a      ,     ,S90 nlcr      ISUUUU            ;
,;                                         :                        :           ,'~~~~~~~~~~            ~       ~~~~~~~~~~64 Carts ,  
faiite  (DI                                                                                              i'pt  :         .
!   t                                      ;                        t          ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   TOTAL t
Source: rOT Prv



CJ *       -           -                                          -           -
j9 2 m~3 i                                                                                                      -                                          |
|               ---';t---------------------------
,__::-----    ---    ------         -- -  .,----------                                                                                      --------- - _ . j . _ _ _::_::..
uz   s   ::   :  ::,   ::::::.                  ::::::                      :::.::                           ,-,-^                  _____.,_                        .,~           ,,
n : ~~~~am.  _   -.                                                                            _                                                     ,S,t>r                        po: I .  *-   Si           :  ,  *->      ,*
' i~ r  _ r    ;;_                                                                                                                          * i          ;i_.
g E   S    , i42           c .                                                      .                                                      : a  c   i  .    . 
:~~ ~ ~ ~~~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~ ~ _ _ _ _  :  .    ..                                                                                 2                                       ,
--  04  a    - 22        I                ...4>C'
.4  -...~~~~~~~~~~  -.---                                                      4                           4~~~~~~~-- --   -    -- - - - - -  .- -
rr!,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n s ,a                                                                          -     CO !              ,**.
C                          Zt-                                        4. M                     Z.4                  -   -              --1             I
ZM-=S                       4 4=14    C
C                                                         4                                                                                           0     PO4 
*  ~:                                        4                                                                                4               0           4          4    44 
C444*                                                                                                                                                                              4
- - - -  -4. a                                                                                                                      4-- - - - -4                           0        4



-'51-                            Page I of 3
Table 6 B: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
PERUHNAS (SITES & SERVICES)
PCR URBAN IV
I  w         ~4    oc o            (sr m            
t       .,  .   .                                     P,  It It 4
@                      t                      i40   Li
------   ............              ...............    --------------..... 
a   <   -           '"  ^'-- ~~C. s-           1! 0! 1! 
0-0 .I . .....     .                                           I ~----~~.. t..   ..............   ..
:S~*  :: e a        It               IWX            I*il
-  --------
Ci                                *0
g  | S  o  -     I | | X   X n 9US I jN     I    I  I            It              o
--------   --n----------------L---------------  --ii
110  ~~~I~H                         W c u
I 8   "1~0 C        1O lt  }    C!  'S  "|l- 9                              I
ll0                                                         B .   .  .......
|     o * *               I '             1          8 11
rl~~~~~~~~.   .q1 .*.4                                              . .04.; t 04"o_
2 1                                             I ; I  -   I
*! t   i E | 11 1                     l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'I   I  MJJ  i
-- ---------- --                        - 
,eI I -  | 2 1  -S IW  0 _ 5
l0    0 i   { | < |   Nln    F  a!.                    -.0 In8     0         0     
I I I I               I I I   I      11 Iwo
------             - .---
>               .... --  ---- --~---- -- n-----.........  I 
~~~ a~~: 
C!              . .  i
E-D                                                    -- f- - -----   - -   --------              --" 
B   ~i: 1                        l                        1sal I  2232 I II
gi g    ^   |0   !3   3   |                       s4(43                       S
.-_  - - .  ........-....-..........-
--- --- -- --- --   -- - -PC R
Source:  MI.0  PCR



-5 2-                      Page 2 of 3
.   .          . .f                         ,.:
12  :5,                              .   ..   .:  .--   i  .: ---------- --   . . ....------
 !       I                 I  --N           I   s         5 .Y             22 S
r.l      : I  E!  _0_            :   ,,   .--             i.    . .                                    d,   o
,1|'i 1 !   -    '2  2 1.  -                         jW  -2 i                              -   i aI
d      i :_                ---------;-----i-di-----------                      It - 22  -            ii
5*t      i      S   i                   .5   .         22 'tIj,,             :i    S                 :5 -. 
d, _-----  --------               j -   _-----j--d-------  hij- '-------                             -i
,j         _;   _  _ _   _-"                     _          _   _  o _ _ _ __,  H  _   _ _.
65                   a      , r                                   fin               ai .5
H  EX E     t iR  ---i--w------------  -- d ------------  --------------               -     --
'"  j   4SL.i       522  S                            d                              Si
. -x ii       Si 1    e I      o      -                          - d  M- 411j
I                                                                          #4      1!a n  :   1 1
-^: 8 d '> D ___:___~~~~~~~---     ___  ------- --i-i __;------ii
4                       -s,   >  |                             8 e n  S   Xin   S i
*-  -   ~                                                       IL 2  :1:  S 4
A>lQ ffi   | |   !  | |  --5--    i  fi         W --  | - gi         =--         iti  a__--            O a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  -H  i  -- -
~~~~~~  K                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
----------                                                                 --------,----------ii  t 2i  -- ----------  --
| ii | 3g t ~~~-- -::--_----_----                 A   5 - -----------  -:-    --------------     - -d
tt o1  W: i2   i                                      }                                             ;2.
e  e  4 i ~    ~     ~ ~       - ---S----------------         ---- --         - -----------_    --_H_____  _    _______ 
[Ii                5                                  1-1   ei*||  g511                                I  i|iri
ii  e        S ------- --O_- ---~ ~~~~~ _U~---~---    ~i
a -  a                 II~~~~a adal 0  : i
i           ---------    -      - --                i    -                 -      ---- S-e
a      #4 f   .  . s   fi                 a fi                                         isa f   44   i2   m        
5~~~~ a   o                     -    as       i 3    tl -  -  a  #-4  a    3   a      -g a   a  -
i2 ~ ~~ a,S |                  i*  a~           *               ---                            -J gi



Table 6 B: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
PERUM'NAS (SITES & SERVICES)
PCR URBANi IV
31131 AD  MUio  loom  1110CIA1,01 COS"           131031
301012 Mt4  1      0  of          PCt AIE          01 MT1       I        DEVEPID   C0813                         1.gVEms  BIDE
I  '                '                '~~~~~~~~~~~p MuIHUMA  Rp.EILUOIO      Rp.IEMUBLD            1p. NILIOI
2I2(115          IWT1   1012mo 1n                    m               in  no?UEI0PET    1111  TOTA,         Imm?               totAL
'sA     ciAL II    ,m          8    I  a"L           I"IS  3      A       CU               3     I     I                                    9m         cl         ti
-La  wi on         Mat   D1.15I14    an lt  1   S0o  SO           111,  o   01           no   ht,i11.861       ot 1 103.8 I         ot I 1Z60.U I no           i.s:1
dettUllD.111112 'det.Ail I'  136 '.dtufl 2    2   &UIdti 1 -    e'det&U  ?11,I1  1   detail I 310.8 1 detail  11  348.8 11 detail I    41.4,
*                 I ~~~~~~at  iD.21161 I1 at    1    4 1:  at  I         #I at   I-     . t   :13,161. 1:   at  1, 180.6:1  at   11(86uLl):   at  1. (41.6):,
fiddle1 Lane.        & pp. hI0.3011211  app.    iiit 1 app.  .1   431 app.  1-          & pp.  21,620.60 app.  .1 634.21 app.          1,511A .4    & pp.  1 332.21
1    -IjihIuiae  :iIOIEPI1            sat        :~   141 II                       :30.1                   e.::-                                
Sub total            M-1--                          54-           100             --              -          -:-    -:-:                                  :-:
Low luau          Mat  ID. 1110    no          3611so            111ntM 1                     3,35.8H     Mt     1,315.21    no                   go
'detuiltl.21110 h1dettil 't1,261 'idotall1    35 I,detail 1        detail :4.551.1 2, detail 15,866.0 11detail  h1,4.)detail :14,401.1):,
tat  11.3611201 at         111I1a at         2 31  at   I-     at   16,261.31o  at  o:4,821.931   at                           at   1
lUiddlu lamoe    Iapp. :1.611150:, app.  1,  1381 a1 pp.  I,   10 1 aPp.        -- Ipp.  : -    1, app.  1  -              , :   pp.   1   -       & pp.     --
*  llglcce         1      1d01              11321t 1A            : i 11          0    1-                         01- 1                   -               I-
ni I   I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                              3                    
*                     3  total         i         mit1           I    0  Is          I.  3.3                                   It*33 
DEIASI(STILIIZ. 11deti  10111Nti               1f idt         16 I,etl  #            'deal236            dtil   1, 19.     dtl  1,11.5,deal 18.  . 
*- kiddielaces.   at  D9.21180' at   12,0341o at   1          331 ast        -       at '12,820.1:   at   :5,136.0 1   at    I                  at              :1
liddle lam     app. 11.36l1l011 app.  lo 1,114 11 app.    18 aI1 pp.  .1          &  pp.  S6,042.1 1  pp.  .5,616.1 01 app.  1,              app.             1 
-ligh Iacome       1      1125(EPU          0116111            is21           1     I-                               -                  -       1        I     -
I   3  (KP           .11.             *                                03      S3                   1  .1                         3
Sub                           S**  *I             ss 1          a  3     5       I       It         3 53                                  I                   
*  Izai  Total       ' - .1,001                                ,         o      ,       ,        0
KM1 :1BP, eaptp plot
*   Source:  G01 PCR



-54 -
Table 6 C: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY Page 1 of 4
MAPPING PROGRAM
URBAN IV
URBAN MAPPING PROGRAM
SURVEYING AND MAPPING EQUIPMENT
List of Equipuent contracts procured following ICB procedure
No           EQUIPMENTS   .       QUALITY      VALUE US $ 2
-                                                - ~ 
1 :Wild ACI & ORI and Kern
5 CPKM                       1 Unit           679,943
2 Ground Survey Equipment,
Kern                         1 Unit            68*186
' 3                              aSGround    vey Equip ents  :
sWild                        :I Unit           71,640
*                              *            * a
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4  Ground Survey Equipment,
*Aga.                        ll unit     el  150,249 
d5 Stereoplotterse Wild        '1 Unit           2871783
4 6  Digitisers and Euat-bed   5 
5  Plotters          W           1 Unit       I   200,000
3         ~~~~TO T A L       ,1,4579801 0
Source: GOI PCR



-55-                 Page 2 of 4
Table 6 C: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
MAPPING PROGRAM
PCR URBAN IV
CITIES MAPPED UNDER THE URBAN IV PROJECT
MAPPING PROJECT
+--------- ------------- ------------- -------------+
LARGE
CITIES       CITY NAME             PROVINCE
a----- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
::
I 1H e d a n           North Sumatra
2 P       a d a n g    West Sumatra
:       3 5Semarang           :Central Java
4 ISolo (Surakarta)    :Central Java
:       5 !Surabayv (South)   lEast Java
6 IPontianak          :West Kalimantan
7 :Banjarmasin        :South Kalimantan
8 Balikpapan          !East Kalimantan
9 ISamarinda          :East Kalimantan
10 IM a n a d o        :North Sulawesi
11 :Ujung Pandang       South Sulawesi
T------------------ -----------------------------------
ill CITIES APPROXIMATE TOTAL AREA: 110,000 Ha
Source: G0o PCR



-56-                   Page 3 of 4
Table 6 C: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
MAPPING PROGRAM
PCR URBAN IV
CITIES MAPPED UNDER THE URBAN IV
MAPPING PROJECT
--------_-___-__--_-----------------------------------
MEDIUM                      '
SIZED    T O W N  N A M E    P R O V I N C E
TOWNS :
:                                                   :
12 :Banda Aceh         :A c e h             a
13 B i n j a i          North Sumatera
14 Padang Sidempuan    :North Sumatera
15 Pematang Siantar    North Sumatera
16 :Kaban Jahe          West Sumat_ra,
17 :Bukit Tinggi        West Sumatera
t      18 Pakanbaru            :R i a u
19 ID u    a i         :R i a u
20 'J a a b i           J a m b i           :
21  Bengkulu           'Bengkulu
'-     22 Tanjung Karang        Lampung
B23 B r e b e s        :West Java
-24 K r a w a n g      !West Java           a
-      25 'Sukabumi            :West Java
a      26 'Cilacap             :Central Java        a
-,     27 Pekalongan           :Central Java
H28 Magelang                  :Central Java
3      29 T e g a              :Central Java
30 tG r e a i k        :East Java
31 'Mojokerto          :East Java
32 !Sidoario           Mast Java
33 *Probolinggo         East Java           :
34 :K e d i r i        'East Java
35 Denpasar            ID a 1 i
36 :Mataram            :West Nusa Tenggara
37 1K u p a n 8        :East Nusa Tenggara
38 Palangkaraya         Central Kalimantan
39 aTarakan           ',East Kalimantan
40 1P a 1 u            :Central Sulawesi
41 !Tanjung Pinang (*)   L a m p u n g
42  Watampone          :South Sulawesi
43 *Palopo             :South Sulawesi      a
a      44 Jayapura             :Irian Jaya
a      45 ID i I i              Timor Timur         a
34 MEDIUM SIZED TOWNS - APPROX AREA : 102,000 Ha
I+-----------------------------------------------------
(*) Original : Kendari - South East Sulawesi
Source: GOI PCR



- 57 -Pae4t4
Table 6 C: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY     Page 4 cf 4
MAPPING PROGRM;
PCR URBAN IV
CITIES MAPPED   UNDER THE URBAN
HAPPING PROJECT
+____________________________________________________+
SMALL
TOWNS     T O W N   N A M E  : P R O V I N C E
:                                                    :
46 Meulaboh            :A ce h
47  Takengon            :Ace h
48 :Kota Cane          tAce h
49 Tapaktuan           :Ace h
50 t s i g I i          :Ac e h
a      51 'Sabang              :Ac e h
52 Tarutung             North Sumatera
53  Rantau Prapat       North Sumatera
54  Kisaran             North Sumatera
56 Sawah Lunto          West Sumatera
56  Bangkinang          :R i a u
57 Muara bungo          J a m b i
58  B a n g k o         J a m b i
59 Padalarang           West Java
60 :Cimahi              West Java
61 Hajalaya             West Java
62 Purwakarta           West Java            a
63 'Cirebon             West Java
64 iKuningan           "West Java
65 'Rangkasbitung       !West Java
66 'B a n j a r         West Java
67 :Cikampek           :West Java
68 K       e n d a I    Central Java
69  B 1 o r a           Central Java
70 Temanggung           Central Java
71 :Jepara             :Central Java
72  Salatiga           :Central Java
73 Wonosobo             Central Java
74 :Kartosura          :Central Java
75 IW a t e s           D.I. Jogyakarta
76 Sleman               D.I. Jogyakarta
77 :Bojonegoro          East Java
78 Blitar               East Java
79 :Pasuruan            East Java
t      80 :Lumajang            :East Java
81 'N g a w i            East Java
82 T u b a n            East Java
83  Bondowoi            East Java
84 *Kertosor            :East Java
85  Situbondo           East Java
86 :Gianjar            :B a I i
87 Amla Pura            B a I i
88  Klungkung           tB a 1 i
89 IMaumere (*)          East Nusa Tenggara
90  Ketapang            West Kalimantan
91  Jeneponto           South Sulawesi
92 lBulukumba           South Sulawesi
93 :Pinrang             South Sulawesi
:      94 Ternate               :M a 1 u k u
95  S o r o n g         :Irian Jaya
96. Lamongan            :East Java
97 :Bangkalan           East Java
98 :Klaten              Central Java
99  Sumedang            West Java
u100 B i a k             :Irian Jaya          t
:                                                   :
55 SHALL TOWNS - APPROX . AREA : 82,500 Ha          :
(*) Original: Ende - East Nusa Tenggara



Table 6 D.: PRO3JECT RESULTS SUMMARY
INCREASES IN REVENUE
PCR URBAN III
MAL IKCISt 111 CITY IKVUIJI IUll III                                      (Ip. TIOUSUD)
t            -   --    -  --    --   ----  ~~~~~~~- -- - -- -- ----------.---- -       _ -------------------------------------------------- - -
t   ttilt    s  tMlOB   tIlUAS8  S  tXtlX llUS0 Xttl"llUBlXCIESB  S  t:B81uBSUB,lCRS80, S  'ItlVHURg ,I5CE1B S .
I    I I *  r         l1       It                   I     1                       1                        1        11             1   
,citiu^s        ::               , 1                  a    ma I   I                 a1  1              a 11  1                  a It  I  1a11     
t               t0 l981112 1t 1982181  11982183 t           1t983184t11583114 t       19841851198485 0    ,11985/8601985/81          111986/17 :1986/87
t--------------------------------------------------                           ----------------------------------------------------'-----^------ - -
t~~~~~~i tt.t 1                          I        SIS a1                   a    am        a        a    a t                 a t   ,         ,a        ,    I
IJAiAt          ::s,725.s8 stlOO 110,474.12 t 3,T48 1516 19li,OO    4,426 1222 1116j5T4 1 1,1  11246  :10,11a   (6,40211151 : 217,586 1 11,414 '410 t
SUR RAJIA       tt  161.54 1100      249.43 t      85 1152 t:   304        55 t185       333        29 t22::   3?21         39 :226        578 0    206 ,351,
aS11|111 1t  153.91 1100 1  172.95 1    119 1118 tt 3,175 t  3,002 1,517 1, lllO 1 121665)1170  t   918 1   (192),140 ,   1,881                      963 :288
I               ma          a    a          a         a     am       a         a    tI        a        a     at       t         a    as         m         a    a
aSUBAT         :01,9s9,s  tlO '100   1,416.84 1   (50311 75 t1 3,115    t 2,218 1191 It 3,451 I   (17811171     2,114 1  1,383)1107     5,1400    3,286 :273 t
10111G PUDUIG tt  415.91  lOO I   529.00 t    113 11127 II   649,    120 tlS6 11    1,018 ,'   369 1215 5t1,035,             17 1149 ,'  1,691       658 1407
115,93.812 1100 113,502.34 1 3,563    1 1123,403 1  9,901    1  122,532 1   (8711:    1114,611 1 (17,921):    ,, 37,138 ' 22,52                ,
--------- - - -- - - - --- --- - ---- - -- - - --...-..--------.. ---- -.. .. ------ - -    -----    -------------------------
lote;
*  P1B tax istroduced not IP181
5: is increase conpare vith revenue ia 1981182
Source: GOI PCR
0
a-



Page 2 of 2
- 59 ------------
-----  -     ------
-  -          - _-_  :
, 1                                  X ,a
--                   - Z-. - - - -- - - -
I                    ~~~~~~~~ii
ad      j,o   a o                    i
I                             ~~~~IR
j,   -    -           _     
_ S   -                    I 
im~~~~~~~~~~
-- -- _ - -      - -
_t _   ,--------------- --
i~8-i l-                       -                     i-
.~~~~~ j
----S  ain 4       -----    ---
*~~~ .a   o    a   - 
.0        a:        -   a
a       -             1
a   _                                   _ _ - - _ .  ,  :
I  -   ,,         - : Z
i~~~~ ----                                         :-
t ~ ~~~~~~~~ S                                   a        
*~~~~~~~~ ,                               
-~~~~~~                                          S z SS     -        
"D~~~~ _                      a .4 o        :i        Z
. W   o  ,  _   _   _   _   _   ~~~en          .44..
a  2         _  ~~~-4 -e  - -4 _                s  i
Xt ~   ~     ~     5 __ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _   __
_ l   ______  __________________________ | __ j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sag  4
w " _~~~~~~ a..  O_  



Table 6 E: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PCR URBAN III
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE EXPENDITURE URBAN III
BUDGET YEARS 1980/81 TO 1984/85
BANX DUNIA       PKK.DAERAH       PEX.PUSAT      TOTAL ACTUAL      ACTUAL COST*       SAR
t                        1 BRD          APBD I/II         APB                Rp              US $           US S
CCIPTA KARYA                       g                t                                                 :
KIP               1,874,618,531.50 :          0.00  188,267,419.40  2,062,885,950.90
"WIP              t 325,251,886.25 :           0.00 :          0.00 " 325,251,886.25
'DRIP             :1,289,234,000.62            0.00   45,399,920.00 :1,334,633,920.62   5,432,970.89   4,910,000.00
'ADM & FINANCE    O 874,793,556.60             0.00            0.00 " 874,793,556.60
SUBTOTAL     :4,363,897,974.97            0.00 :233,667,339.40 :4,597,565,314.37 t 5,432,970.89   4,910,000.00
,I P                               a D A            a t                               a
'Property            104,036,120.00 :          0.00 t           0.00 t 104,036,120.00      140,999.26     600,000.00
'evaluation't::
tPUOD             I                 t                                                  : D
tPafpack             152,546,887.00            0.00 0.00    152,546,887.00 t  190,440.15                 130,000.00        0
+_____---__  - - -__    _ ____                                                                                      w~ 
I  GRAND TOTAL   14,620,480,981.97             0.00 t233,667,339.40 :4,854,148,321.37 : 5,764,410.30   5,640,000.00
* Actual Cost Finance by World Bank Bp. 4,620,480,981.97 is equivalent to US $ 5,764,410.30
SOurce: GOI PCR



Table 6 E: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TR8INICAL ASSISTAKCE BXPIDISURB                     PCR URBAN IV                                             Contmnued
-   -           -------------------                           --      -------- --- -- ---.                 --
S       I B R D          I                          a           I
No                                           -------- - AP   N                       PERUMNAS    TO T A L      S A R
a                                     2 EQ. US $    - EQ Rp.   2(Rp.million)2(Rp.sillion)2(Rp.nillion)2(Rp.aillion)2
I           ce(thousand)  (Rp.million)                                     Is
---------------------------------------------------------------------------  ---------------------_  - ---------_-__-
I
I * Managenent Consulting Supelo sion                             a
* for KIP ( 6 cities)                    2,059.66    2,459.23         76.32 1   ----         2,535.55 1  1,296.00
2  Drainage advisory services                        a
Nanagekefnt Consulting Service
B*nJsxm&s1a 8amarinda, Palembaag
*     land Padang ) 0                          1,163.12 a  1,221.38                                1,221.38     1,240.00
3  Solld Waste Improvement Prograu
for Denpasar                              1785 9       213.21      ---    a       -           2 .a21 a
4 'A Peasility Studa for an IVDP In                                                                                   a
8ast Java                                  303.25 2    499.74       _ _          _             499.742
I                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
25 :A Peasility Study for an IUIDP in    aa
,South Sulawesi                            588.94       98 62                                  968.62
6 2 valuation and impact monitoring of                                         a
8SWIP in Dengpasar                          S1.13        9991       --                          99 91 a
7 Preparation of Water Supply Master   I                                                    i
a Plan for Denpasar                        285.56 1    468.48                                  468.48
t  8 Preparation of IUlDP for Metropolitana
and Selected Large City                    31941 2       85293                                 525.93
9 2PCR Urban III, Urban IV and SWIP
Deapssar 77.68                                          126f72  i               - t
2 2Denpasar                             1                                      11                 187
2 10 INonitoring of Project Expenditure                              |
'asnd Loan Pinaneps                   2    564.98 a    827.79 a             a                  827.79
11 :Audit Services                            606.19       fi73.45     ----         --6-573.45
12 8IPID                                      6315 S1       S8.S7      -                          758.67 
13 Preparation of Technical Planning                  a
:for Urban sousing                         91.97 1    162.16                  - a i           152.16 O
1 
14 :Adainistration System inprevecant
land tax Collection Improvement and               t a                                                              a
Ilmplementation PAPPACK in Surabaya        970a78   1                       a176 07          1176.67        828.00 C
a  a  SUj  TOTAL        2  7vO02.77    10 171.96        76. 32    ----         10,248.28 2  3,364.00 2
CARRIED OVER
Source: GOI PCR



Table 6 E: PROJECT RESULTS SUMMARY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PCR UPBAN IV
TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE EXPENDITURE                                                                              Continued
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__
:                                          :        SI B R D          I                         :            :            :
No ---------------------                                                 A P          PRVWAS    T0 T A L  :  S A R
EQ. US $   :EQ  Rp.  it(Rp.illion)ltp.nillion)2 (Rp.-illion)l(Rp.aillion)
(thousand) :(Rp.-illion)4 : 
4e ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - - - ------------- --------------
ICARaIED FORWARD                          7,802.77 2 10,171.96 1       76.32      ----    2 10,248.28       3,364.00
15  Jabotabek Adviory Team Services            194.09       197.75                                  197.75
16 :Evaluation and Monitoring of 
2Implementation New Administration    :                         2                                       2
* SYstem and Taz Collection System           56.45        92.01 2   ----          ^---            92.01
17 'anagement Development and Training  a                                        a
'.for Peruanas                            1,846.63     1,702.99      - ---         - -         1,702.99
18 2Training for Audit Preparation                     ,            .                         2 .
(Perumnas)                                  91.01 ,    149.67 ,   *---               5.12 ,    154.79 S    682.00
19 'Comparative Study Tour;                     44.75        72.84       ----                        72.84               a
* 20 lAdministration Financial and                                     :            :     *
,saving (RTM)                             2,272.85     2,042.99 ,                          2  2,042.99        818.00
21 iTechnical Assistance to Agraria for  :             :            :
Supporting Urban napping Program     :  1,401.82      1,513.63     -            ---           1,513.63       450.00
22 IDesign of Archieves building for     2                                                                 :             :
lUrban mapping                               17.75        19.95     -             -               19.96 i
23 'Supervisory of Archieve Building            12.08        19.80     -----_                        19.80 i
24 :Implement to The Organization and                  :2
'.Coordination With Agencies Related                             I 2    .    2             2
:With National Happing Program        2      39.19 2      26.05 2       2.50 2  ---        2      28.56 1    113.00
25 :Inventory and Evaluation Human       i             *                         *
'.Resources in lakosurtanal                  99.41       101.25     -----         -              101.21 2            *
26 'Development of Computer Assisted                                                          S            t 2
2 Photogranetric Data Aquisition      2            2            22
:System (CAPDAS)                             39.36        39.05         0.04 2  -                 39.09 2
27 !Preparation of Land Information                    ,                         2            2    8        t
*  gystem                                  520.83 2    848.17                                   848.7
t  |   SUB TOTAL       2 14,437.99 2 16,998.11 2        78.86          S 5.12 2 17,082.09    B 6,196.00 *c
*                                                             .~~~~~~~    --7-9---99--------
11    Advance Payment                             47.95        78.99 2             2       1.49 2      80.48 1
2111   OTWEUS *5*                           *      34.71        44.26      -        2            2      44.26 2   -
T 2TO    A L           2 14,520.85 2 17,121.36 2        76.86          B 6.61 i 17,206.83 2  8,195.00 2
*____________________________________________----------------------------------___ --- - - ------ - ---   ---_------
Note :) Tbe original only lanjarmasin & Saarinda
5* ) Included Price Contingencies Rp. 769,0 sillion
*5* ) Over payment for KIP s US S 25,34 ; Mgt & Training fwr Perusnas US $ 8.70                     Source coI PCR
Aat-. .W.'i a. tt -  P..1 }tt{tlo1 t -  -^q st *



Pog 1 of 4
TAkE  7: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1l6-tD)
COMPaANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Target Doat
Reference to        (it any) for            Current                             Specific Action Needed/
Loan Agr_emet        CompIlance               Status                           Agreed to Acbiev  Complince
In 41tA-li V Dlotwnt Rotiat                    3.0o  (o),(d)       Apr 30, 1979          Coepli d                 Occseleonal KIP  taffing probleme exprlecd in
re t-S.. -. _e et p5 perato RIP proJ ct                                                                     Searang and Ujung Pendang doe to city's limited
nits with adoquato  taftfng in the                                                                             adminletration funds;  neaesd econdnt of other
n_w project cities of Searang,                                                                                  city etaff (on part-tim  bale) to  IP unit
Suraarte  -d Ujun  PandWa.                                                                                      alleviated the above problem.
Iennce of KIP policy directive ry                3.06 (b)          Apr 01, 1979          Complied
PUWD.
OKI to expand KIP mrit to lnclueo                3.0  (c)         Apr 01, 1979          Compl led
seo eonomic cell 
Sunbayy  to eetablish a *eprotoe                 3.06 (a)          Apr 01, 1979       Establiehed on Apr 2,       Delay due to time-consuming review and approval
cleonsing dep rtamnt.                                                                 1988; expanded staffing     proceruree within the local ed provincial
for 1984 and 1986.         governmnt Involved (tppraital cpectetione Under-
estimated the long approvl tie  required to
eetblish a*mew departnt).
DKI and Sarabeys to mintein a planning           8.0S (b)               -                 Complied
unit within the rleaning departmnt.
Pr8o.ct ibn"                    i  S          04 (e)#(b),(c)              _              ComplIed                Deloys up to 18 month weided In the appoint-
Apintmn or te required                                                                                          ment of consultant; seeral co      ltte .ts exten-
consulItnta by Kipte Kerys, PillD end                                                                           dad to accomodate projet Ibpl_manttlon delays.
Mins try of Finance.
Copli ed               Ned for Improved _mangement informatlon systm
Timly recording and submiesion of               8.12 (b)               -                                          bhc-* opparent durlng project lepl_meation; this
project progress report and                                                                                       Pill b  ccompishd In the project cities under
eatblisman of men"       t reorting                                                                               the Fifth Urben Develoment Prject.
system.
Suhlenlon of Project Complation Report          8.11 (c)        Within a  onths         Complied (lato)           CombIned PCR within Urban IV s_bitted to Ibb
PCi) to Ibok.                                                   after the loan                                    Nover 1968.
rloaing date



PaRe 2 of 4
TABLE 7: THIRD URBAN OEVELOPMENT (LOAN 183-ID0)
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVElANTS
Refe-rnce         Toget date (If any)                                       Specific *ctson
Brief Dt cription of Covenant        to Loan Agrement            for compiance           Current Status        needed/agreed to achieve coepliance
Prq%:t insnnC  Related
Proin " f d5sqtue budgetary           3.01(e)                       -                    Compled         Budgetory shortfalls for KIP and DRIP in
funds.                                                                                                   Surabaya during 19g1 and 1982 (resulting
froe the leo of incom from closed-dowon
casinoa) accomeodated by suitably
extendingtheir implementation through an
additional fiecal year.
Maintenance of satisfactory              3.09(a), 3.10                 -               Not fully eatisfac-  Establishment of consolidated *ccounta for
project accounts et Cipta Kerys                                                        tory; improvmnts   project components and improved *ccounting
and city agencies                                                                      needed (as in the    format.  wer, developed In 1983; these will
Cats with the        be implmented under tho Fifth Urban
overall municipal   Project.
accounting system
nationwide).
Submisoton of audited financial          3.09(b)            Due within 9 months        Complied (all
statemnts of project accounts for                           after tho ond of each      backlogs cleared in
the project cities,                                         fiscal yoer                April 1984)
Mun;isl maFinance Related
o      A  proprty           4.0?                FY79/80 through FY83/84   Mowtiy coeplied.      Average annusl IPEDA increases as follows:
tax) r-v"nuee in the cities of                                                                            Semarng - 39#; Surakart  - 431; Ujung
Surabaya, Ujung Pandang,                                                                                  Pandang - 241 and Surabaya - 28$; furthnr
Surakerts ond Samrang - at an                                                                             meosures sill be taken under the Fifth
verage of not less than 301                                                                               UrbaProject to improve IPEDA yield at an
par year.                                                                                                 averagsl per year in real terrms
Studies
Subtission of the design of           3.09               Sept. 30, 1979 (design)   Compled.  [Aug.
prope rty valuation system for                           Oec. 31. 1979 (training)  19N0 (design) ond
Surabaya and associated                                                             Aug. 1982
training program.                                                                   (training)]
Other
'inquisition of land for project       3.14                                                 -              Land acquisition dolays *sperienced
execution in all cities.                                                                                   for(i)constructlon of MCNa  (sanitation
facilities) in all cities; (ii) in the
execution Of SlIP (trinsfetr dp ott eite  in
Jakarta); and (;ii) In the exiecution oft
achoola in sll cities.  Most of the above
problems wer  overcom  through suitable
changes tn design or relocation of
facilities.
Installation of 14 health posts In       3.13               FY79/aO through FY81/82   Compled.
Jakarta et complementary provision
+A RIP.
Relocation of families from canal        8.07                                          Compiled.
banks to facilitate DRIP
implementation in Surabaya.
Operation and maintenance (OSId) of      4.02(a)                                       Unsatisfactory        Lack of adequate funds for a satisfactory
project facilities                                                                                           infrastructure operation has been
generallyindicated in the past. A detniled
study onth. OiUI neods and budgetary
requirements, together with the requisite
CAM progr s, undertaken under the Fifth
Urban DevelopmenProject.
Note:  Surabaya, Serang, Surekarta and Ujung Pandang are also the Project Cities under the Sank-financed Fifth Urban Development Project (Loan 2408)



TABLE 7: FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1972-rND)                                    Page 3 of 4
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Ref. to Loan
Agreement           Target Date for          Current
Provisions            Compliance              Status          Remarks/Recommendations/Agreed Action
Hous;q Policy  Related
PERMUNASb 8TN toIfollow open                   3 O              07/31/81            Being imple- )
allocation policy for eligible                  3.10(e)                               mented       )
beneficiaries                                                                                      )
PERUMNAS to implement immediate sale            3.09            07/31/81             8eing imple- )
policy for completed units                                                            mented       )
BTN to implement Initially agreed               3.10(a)          07/31/83             Being Imple- )
mortgage interest regime                         A (b)                                 mented      )
BTN to implement revised Interest               3.10(c)       During Project          Implemented  )    GOI compliance reflected in BTN and
rates to reflect cost of its                                  Implemontation                       )    PERUMAS action programs agreed under
operations and cost of funds and                                                                   )    Housing Sector Loan approved by Board
reduce subsidies                                                                                   )    0/8.
Financial i Institutional Development
Rela_ted  i
Improvement of PERUMAS' operations               3.08(a) '        07/31/81             Being imple- )
related to lot pricing formula A               4.08                                   mented       )
control of annual operating expenses                                                               )
A sale backlogs.                                                                                   )
Streamlining of operational                     3.08(i)          12/31/83            Being imple- )
procedures of PERUMNAS                                                                mented       )
BTN institutional reforms following             3.10(d)       During project         Being imple- )
consultents' study                                            Implementation          mented       )
Increase project city tax revenues             4.06                    -             Less than          In some of the six project cities,
by 1IS  in real terms for each fiscal                                                satisfactory        IPEDA/PBD revenues Increased by at least
year                                                                                                     15% in real terms.  However, other
development revenues fell far short of
this level; ons-lng revenue studies have
indicated ways ior Improving revenue
assesament and collection; now being
Pro]ect Implement tion Related                                                                               implemented.
Establ shment Ma ntenance of PIUs
KIP Uni ta aStaffing                            3.06(a)         07/31/81             Fairly satis-      Limited technical skills of PIU staff In
factory            all cities.
Directorate General of Agraria (DGA)            3.0(b)               -                                 DGA have maintained adequate staff
KIP Implementatlon guidelines                   3.06          07/31/81
Unsatisfactory    USL support for studies of KIP strategy
and urban Institutional development have
Identified recommendatIons for Repelits V



Page 4 oi 4
TABE 7: FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT MOJECT (LOAN 1972-IND)
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Ref. to Loan
Agreeent           Target Date for         Current
Prowvsions          Compliance             Status          Rearks/Rocomendationu/Agreed Aetion
Project ImlDlMsmttion tCont'd)
.304(a)         07/,1/S1            Compiled
IP7CTjipi Kirq Ibnsg_nt                         a (b)
Consultant
PERWUMAS/lTN                                      3.04(c)          07/31/81            Compiled           Work la continuing under Urban V and USL
projects.
Municipal   _na    t eonsultants                  3.04(e)          07/31/61            Complied           Work continued under USL for tax line
Mapping consultants                               3.04(g)          07/31/81            Cocpl;ed           pping
Work still underway,. financed by USL.
Municipal reweme consultants                      3.04(f)          09/30/82            Complied
Proiect FinaeialgCt Recoverw
Prowisie  d adepsto counterpart               3.03(b)       Start of each          Satisfaetory
funds in a timly  mnner                                     fiscal year
Preparation and rie  of KIP budget                3.03(s)       Start of each          Satisfactory
cycle                                                           fiscal year
Cost recovere study for Denpasar solid            3.11            04/01/83             Partlrily         Recommendations produced 11/88; not yet
adopted.
Transfer and mimtenance of project                4.05          Following              Not yet fully     Since past PERUMNAS projects are not being
facilities                                                      completion of          efffective        transferred or maintained by local
facilities                              authorities, attention Is being given to
construction                            this issue under Housing Sector Loan.
Revort  M  Rae"  It_inG
Iepl             progress reports             3.13(b)       At regular             Satisfactory
intervals
Accountiug                                    4.02,         Fiscal year basis      Compliance        PERUMNAS' accounting systems being
4.03(a)                                                improved.  Accrual systm  introduced and
4.04(a)(b)                                             partially implemented; new construction
cost accounting and branch accounting
system designed and field tested;
continuing under Housing Sector Loan.
Audit repo                                    4.03(b)       9 month, following    Complied
fiscal yer
completion
Preparatien ef Project Ceepletion Reort           8.13(d)       6 months following    Satisfactory       Consultancy TOR for combined Urban
loan Closing Date                       III/IVPCR completed 11/88.
Land Acqisiftei                                   8.14          An and  he needed    Satisfactory



- 67 -
Table 8A: STAFF INPUTS
TOTAL TIME (STAFFWEEKS) RECORDED BY FISCAL YEAR/ACTIVITY
FOR PROJECT: 4INSPA084 NAME: URBAN DEVELOPMENT III
TASK FY77 FY78  FY79  FY80 PY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89* TOTAL
LENP  3.3  87.5   .1                                                         90.9
LENA       11.4 26.1                                                         37.5
LENN             14.0                                                        14.0
LOP    .2   5.6  9.9                                                         15.7
SPN             16.1 27.7 25.1 23.2 17.5 17.1 26.9 12.1  2.2   .1           168.0
PCR                                                              4.3  10.0  11.3
PAD                .2   .8   .1   .1              .9                          2.1
TOTAL 3.5 104.1 66.4 28.5 25.3 23.3 17.5 17.1 27.8 12.1  2.2  4.4  10.0 342.6
TOTAL TIME (STAFFWEEKS) RECORDED BY FISCAL YEAR/ACTIVITY
FOR PROJECT: 4INSPA103 NAME: URBAN DEVELOPMENT IV
TASK  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89*  TOTAL
LEN"   4.3   5.8  87.9    .2                                                       98.2
LENA               34.4  31.1                                                      65.5
LENN                     22.5                                                      22.5
LOP           .5   3.1  10.7                                                        14.3
SPN                       7.5  26.0  33.3  30.6  46.0  32.7  23.5  13.2   .4   213.2
PCJL                                                                    .2   .8       .9
PAD                               .5    .2    .2   1.1    .2    .0    .7            3.0
TOTAL  4.3   6.3 125.4  71.9  26.5  33.5  30.8  47.1  32.9  23.6  14.1  1.2   417.7
*FY89 Estimated through June 1989 completion of this PCR.



Page 1 of 2
Table 8B: SUMMARY OF BANK MISSIONS
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1653-IND)
Stage of        Mission       Number of    Days in              Key
Project Cycle    Month/year      Persons      Field           Activities
Preparation         3/77           N/A         N/A       Project Definition
Identification      9/77           N/A         N/A       Issues Identification
Appraisal            6178           6            14      Appraisal
Post Appraisal      2/79           N/A         N/A       Project Arrangements
Supervision         10/79           3           7        Initial Supervision
Supervision         5/80            4           3        Progress Review
Supervision         10/80           2           7        Progress Review
Supervision         3/81            3          10        Progress Review
Supervision         10181           3          10        Progress Review
Supervision         8/82            2           8        Progress Review
(1983 Mission Records not Available)
Supervision         3/84            3           7        Progress Review
Supervision         5/84            1           8        Progress Review
Supervision         8/84            2           7        Progress Review
Supervision         2/85            2           5        Progress Review
Supervision         9/85            2           5        Limited Status Review
Supervision         2186            6           4        Final Progress Review
PCR Preparation*    2/88            2           2        PCR Initiation
PCR Preparation*    6/88            2            3       Data Collection
PCR Preparation*    9/88            1           3        Review GOI PCR Draft
PCR Preparation*    11/88           2           2        Receive Draft PCR
PCR Preparation*    3/89            2           1        Request GOI Evaluation
(PCR PART II)
* Combined with Urban IV       N/A = data not available



- 69 -
Page 2 of 2
Table 8B:  SUMMARY OF BANK MISSIONS (cont)
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1972-IND)
Stage of        Mission       Number of    Days in        Key
Project Cycle    Month/year      Persons       Field     Activities
Identification     2/79            N/A          N/A      Project Definition
Pre-Appraisal      11/79            3            7       Issues Identification
Appraisal           5/80            6           12       Appraisal
Post-Appraisal     3/81             3           21       Project Arrangements
Supervision        10-11181         3           14       Initial Supervision
Supervision        8-9/82           2           13       Progress Review
(1983 mission records not available)
Supervision        3/84             5           10       Progress Review
Supervision        5/84             2           15       Progress Review
Supervision        2/85             5           12       Progress Review
Supervision        9/85             2            5       Limited Review
Supervision        11/85            2            3       Mapping Component
Supervision        2/86             6            4       Progress Review
Supervision        11/86            1            5       Mapping Program
Supervision        6/87             5            3       Final Progress Record
Supervision        2/88             3            6       Final Disbursement
PCR Preparation*   6/88             2            3       Data Collection
PCR Preparation*   9/88             1            3       Review GOI PCR Draft
PCR Preparation*   11/88            2            2       Receive Draft PCR
PCR Preparation*   3/89             2            1       Request GOI Evaluation
(PCR PART II)
* Combined with Urban III       N/A = data not available



