FILE 7
D)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2440-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 4, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ol
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
Currency Unit    =   Rupiah (Rp)
US$1             =   Rp 625
Rp 100           =   US$0.16
Rp 1 million          US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                             39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                    =   0.62 miles
1 square meter (sq m)               =   10.8 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)                =   35.5 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                      =   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)          =   0.386 square miles
1 liter per capita per day (1 cd)  =   0.26 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Cipta Karya      -  Directorate-General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development (Ministry of Public Works)
Dalam Negeri     -  Ministry of Interior (Home Affairs)
IPEDA            -  National Urban Property Tax
KIP              -  Kampung Improvement Program
Repelita         -  Five-Year Development Plan
PUOD             -  Directorate-General of Public Administration and
and Regional Autonomy
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
/1 The Rupiah was devalued on November 15, 1978 from Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the
US dollar. All figures in this report are based on the new exchange rate
(i.e. US$1 = Rp 625).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:      The Special District of Jakarta (DKI), and the Cities of
Surabaya, Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta (defined
as the Project Cities)
Amount:             $54 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:              Twenty years, including five years of grace, with interest at
7% per annum.
Re-Lending Terms:  To the five Project Cities on the same terms as the Bank loan,
with interest at an annual rate of not less than one-quarter of
one percent (1/4%) higher than the interest rate of the Bank loan.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project             The project would support the Government's efforts to pro-
Description:      vide essential urban services and employment for the low-
income groups. It would include: (a) provision of basic
infrastructure services including water supply, sanitation,
roads, footpaths, drainage, schools and health facilities,
to about 2.25 million persons living in low-income neighbor-
hoods (kampungs) in the cities of Jakarta, Surabaya, Ujung
Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta; (b) improvements in solid
wastes collection and disposal services in Jakarta and
Surabaya benefitting about 2.0 million persons; (c) improve-
ments in drainage facilities in Surabaya to alleviate flooding
in about 1,000 ha of developed areas; (d) training, equipment
and materials for about 800 community health workers in Jakarta
and Surabaya; (e) a program of registration of land rights in
Surabaya; (f) technical assistance in project implementation;
training; management; preparation of feasibility studies for
future urban development programs; and the design and imple-
mentation of systems covering resource planning, programming
and budgeting, and property valuation in Surabaya. The
benefits of the proposed project are the direct service
benefits to project beneficiaries (about 4.5 million) and the
institution building effects of project implementation. The
shortage of technical and administrative skills in the
smaller Project Cities may present some risk to project
implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
-----($ million)-------
Kampung improvement               31.56    14.33    45.89
Solid wastes management            6.91      7.22    14.13
Drainage improvements              2.80      1.58      4.38
Community health workers           0.35       -        0.35
Land registration                  0.42      0.10      0.52
Technical assistance               0.63      4.08     4.71
Contingencies                     20.67      5.35    26.02
Total project cost           63.34    32.66    96.00
Financing Plan:    The proposed loan of $54 million would cover the foreign
exchange cost of the project and $21.3 million of local
costs. The remaining costs ($42 million) would be met by
the Central Government and the municipal governments of
the Project Cities.
Estimated           Bank FY        1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Disbursements:                 -…---- ($ million) ---------------
Annual:        7.69   12.69   16.42   10.90    4.07    2.23
Cumulative:   7.69   20.38   36.80   47.70   51.77   54.00
Rate of Return:    About 85% for the aggregate of all project components
for which benefits can be quantified, and which account
for about 65% of project cost.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2211b-IND, dated December 12, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $54 million to help finance
a Third Urban Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Devel-
opments, Short-Term Prospects and Development Issues," of April 26, 1978
(2026-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1978.  A
new Basic Economic Report which is currently being finalized will be submitted
to the Executive Directors in the next few months. This report's main findings
are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expected slow-down in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop more efficient financial,
technical and marketing support services to facilitate those structural
changes;
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net-exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because
of the structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom



era, Indonesia's long-term development prospects have been signifi-
cantly enhanced by the Government's successful population policies
which have already contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%)
reduction of fertility on Java and Bali during the past decade.
These crucially important demographic developments will, in due
course, particularly after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced
and declining rates of growth of the labor force. Declining labor
force growth rates and the prospects of declining income elasticities
of demand for food justify the hope and expectation that with
sound policies, Indonesia can and will eventually - possibly within
the next two decades - overcome the severe poverty and food security
problems that still plague the country today. The solution
of these fundamental problems through the pursuit of a pervasive
employment oriented development strategy would set the economy firmly
on a long-term growth path towards much higher levels of social and
economic development involving all Indonesians. One of the key
components of such a strategy would be to aim at a high rate of
labor-intensive manufacturing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggest that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the other islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $240,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices and
exchange rate). The concentration of poverty is particularly high in East
and Central Java. These provinces account for about 39% of Indonesia's
population and for 45% and 55% respectively of the urban and rural poor.
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys show a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and
October 1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very
high rate and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate
of open unemployment (to 2.3% of the labor force). Since the labor force grew
much faster than population in the relevant age groups, a sharp increase
in labor force participation rates, from 50% in September 1971 to 55% in
October 1976, was observed. Thus, a substantial part of the increased per
capita consumption levels is believed to have been related to increased labor
force participation and declining dependency ratios. Increases in labor force
participation rates have been greatest for women in the child bearing age
groups which is consistent with the general picture of rising education
levels, later marriages and declining fertility.
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas.



- 3 -
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over 7%
p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricultural
sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating small-
scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor produc-
tivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia, by the
stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in the
world. The strong employment growth in extremely small-scale manufacturing
units and service sectors has undoubtedly been in part the result of multiplier
effects associated with the extremely rapid expansion of Government spending,
averaging nearly 20% p.a. in real terms during the period 1970/71-1976/77.
Employment growth in medium and large-scale enterprises, which absorbed
the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad picture of
rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many respects, thus
reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental employment has been
of poor quality in residual types of activities. This in turn raises the
question of possible excessive concentration of investment in capital-
intensive industries, particularly in the public sector.
6.        Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services.  Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is expected
to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in 1974; dropout
rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary education appears to
be in sight. A promising nonformal education program has been introduced to
increase the basic employable skills of those who never attended school
(presently estimated at 23 million people) and others who left school without
completing primary education (a further 22 million). Indonesia's adult
literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher than India (36%),
Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in Thailand (82%) or
Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in levels of educa-
tional attainment between urban and rural areas still exist, but differences
between Java and other parts of the country are relatively small. This
points to the significant progress that has been made already towards spreading
the national education effort which, inter alia, aims at making Bahasa Indonesia
the lingua franca throughout the archipelago for all people.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principle vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained under-
utilized due to personnel shortage, and a range of other factors, including
popular preference for traditional health care services in several areas. In
spite of the Government's health services efforts, protein-calorie malnutrition
has remain,ed a severe national problem. It is estimated to affect one-third
of all children under the age of 5 (about 7 million) and is a major cause of
Indonesia's high rate of infant mortality.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various



- 4 -
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II) ending March 1979, are fully met, over 100 million
Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in 1979.
Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory, especially
in crowded urban areas.   Although, simple and inexpensive improvements in
water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities executed through
Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank Group,
have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded urban
areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living con-
ditions of the urban poor are needed. But some social dislocation due to
property speculation and rent increases is an almost inevitable by-product of
selective urban improvement projects until such time that their area coverage
extends to all priority areas in the major cities. The present project will
make a further significant contribution towards this objective.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effects of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should strongly improve. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
adminstrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
price inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have
already been taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by
50% on a wide range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls,
and a temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key
consumption items such as rice and certain other products from the effects of
the devaluation. Aside from the budget's influence over the prices of
essential commodities through decisions on subsidies, one important factor
determining domestic price responses to the devaluation will be the degree
of monetary control exercised. There is likely to be conflict, however,
between the needs to contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the
need for additional credit to assist import-dependent and externally indebted
enterprises in overcoming temporary cash-flow problems and to promote new
private investment in line with the structural objectives of the devaluation.
A temporary relaxation of credit restrictions may be needed to counter
the inevitable deflationary impact of the devaluation on certain sectors of
the economy. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80 almost
certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.



11.       Before the devaluation of November 1978, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future. The improvement in overall prospects does not of course
reduce the need for the removal of administrative and physical obstacles
and the development of institutional support services for the promotion of
traditional export crops and export oriented labor-intensive manufacturing
growth. Ultimately, changes in the size and structure of imports and exports
will be strongly influenced by the effect that the devaluation will have on
the overaLl growth performance of the economy. The devaluation has undoubtedly
given a sltrong impetus to export-oriented agriculture and should also facil-
itate the emergence and growth of export-oriented industries. The short-term
export response, however, is bound to be rather limited because of supply
rigidities (including long gestation periods in the case of tree crops)..
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968-77, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food caloric
production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively./1
These growth rates reflect a growing import dependence on rice, sugar, wheat
and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance of maize,
cassava, meat and coconut product exports.  After three years of stagnating
or slow growing rice production due to a combination of poor weather and
pest problems, 1978 has shown an unprecedented increase in output (over
10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977,
are still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggest
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for aL comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and to
swamp drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential from increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and from improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.7%.



14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields for secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks (vulnerability)
associated with excessive rice import dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects as determined by developments already in
motion and exogenous factors, such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), starting April 1979.
16.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and generally on the mobilization of Indonesia's most
abundant and inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected
to facilitate the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives
for an employment oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and
institutional support services for agriculture and small industries, it
should in due course be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the
economy to at least 7% or 8%, which would be a major help in accelerating
the further elimination of poverty.
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, have
raised the level of debt service payments which are now expected to reach
about $1.5 billion in 1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The
debt service ratio /1 was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected
to remain below 20%o in 1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of
restraint with regard to new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replace-
ment on more favorable terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



(originally totalling $1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a
number of private banks in the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan
commitments declined from a peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $3.2 billion in
1976 and to $1.9 billion in-1977. Most of the decline was achieved through a
reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that average loan terms have
recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected in future debt service
payments.
18.       I'he Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.75 billion in 1978/79, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank recommendations would be approximately
met. As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $500 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached.
19.       Our overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts indicates
that the country will be able to finance essential imports of consumer,
intermediate and capital goods and meet its debt service obligations. The
debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%. Although the November 15
Rupiah devaLluation will provide a one time revenue windfall, the Government
will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming
years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment already reached is to
be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in increasing current
expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope for reducing them
further; they should, in fact, rise in step with the growth in GNP and infla-
tion, to permit reasonable growth in Government salaries as well as materials
expenditures, a significant part of which is development related. In view of
the expected increase in the pressure on public sector resources, the devalua-
tion notwithstanding, a limited measure of local cost financing is considered
justified.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
20.      As of October 31, 1978, Indonesia had received 39 IDA credits
totalling $630.8 million, and 35 Bank loans amounting to $1,772.0 million.
IFC investments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%.  By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and
IFC Investments as of October 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighborhood
improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through four technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops. Efforts
to increase employment through programs directed towards improving the incomes
of the poor and their living standards are expected to be one of the major
objectives of the Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), starting
April 1979. The work of the Basic Economic Mission (para. 2) is designed to
assist the Government in formulating a coherent set of programs and policies
to achieve these objectives. While several of these programs are likely to
be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some time before they are
ready for implementation. However, as part of this new focus, a small enter-
prise development project designed to increase non-agricultural employment in



- 9 -
rural areaLs and small towns, has already been approved by the Executive
Directors, and an integrated rural development project has been appraised and
should be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.
With respect to agriculture development, projects are being prepared to
further improve and expand research and extension services, rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber and coconut
plantations, assist in watershed management and village development, and
develop presently under-utilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants
and other smallholders. In addition to the family planning program, which
continues to have high priority, other areas of particular importance for
Bank Group assistance will be improvement of urban services through construc-
tion of urban water supply systems and further expansion of neighborhood
improvement programs, and improvement and expansion of higher education
particularly of engineers, accountants and agriculture specialists, as well
as primary and nonformal education. Finally, Bank Group financing continues
to be important for the Government's program of infrastructure rehabilitation
and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which will continue to
require very large investments for many years before these facilities are
adequate to support Indonesia's development. Compared to past lending
activities, many of these projects and programs reflect the shift of emphasis
in Government's development objectives from rehabilitation and expansion to a
better balanced and more equitable and employment-oriented economic growth
strategy.
23.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968 and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has saved
and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded iits development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in 1977/78.
For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the November 1978
devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situations may be difficult
in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always qualified for assistance
on concessional terms on grounds of its low per capita income and the quality
of its economic management, such terms are now also necessary to enable it to
maintain a high level of investment without impairing its ability to service
its external debt. Accordingly, starting in FY78, a portion of Bank Group
lending to Indonesia has again been provided on IDA terms.
24.       The proposed loan is the third lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia
this year to $180 million. Projects for agricultural training, rubber
replanting, rural development, transmigration, development finance company
(BAPINDO), water supply, technical assistance, road betterment and power are
expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months.



- 10 -
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
25.       Indonesia's urban population in 1976 was estimated at about 23.7 mil-
lion, approximately 18.2% of the country's total population of 130 million.
Urban population growth is estimated at 3.7% per annum compared with the
overall population growth rate of 2.1%. Following these trends, by the year
2000 urban population is expected to be 70-80 million and account for over
35% of the total population.
26.       The estimates of present and future levels of urbanization and the
rate of growth of the urban population in Indonesia are moderate as compared
with other countries in the region. However, the summary statistics mask
several important features of the urbanization process in Indonesia. First,
the growth of Indonesia's urban population is large in absolute numbers.
Approximately 800,000 people are added to Indonesia's urban centers annually.
Second, while the overall urban growth rate may be moderate, a disproportionate
amount of the burden of population growth falls on Jakarta and Surabaya, the
two largest of Indonesia's cities. Currently growing at an annual rate of
about 4.5% per annum, together these cities accounted for 63% of the total
1961-71 population growth in the 30 Indonesian cities of over 100,000 size.
Third, the actual urbanization level is probably higher than indicated by
the summary statistics. The definition of urban residents used in official
estimates does not include the increasing numbers of "circular migrants" who
migrate to the cities regularly at nonpeak times for agriculture, and the
definition of urban boundaries often excludes a number of highly urbanized
inter-city corridors in Java which have developed in the last 10-15 years.
Finally, many observers predict that the rate of growth of urban areas could
accelerate considerably in the next 25 years as the "carrying capacity" of
the land in rural Java nears its limit. Indeed, it is argued that given the
existing population pressures, technology, and resource contraints in rural
areas, it is unlikely that rural per capita income can be substantially
raised unless urban areas are stimulated to provide an outlet for a rising
portion of the expected population growth.
27.       Employment in Indonesian cities is predominantly concentrated in
the service, trade and transport and communication sectors, which together
account for nearly two-thirds of all employment. While total urban employment
has increased at a faster rate than urban population in the 1970s, simultaneous
increases in the proportion of working age population and the increased labor
force participation have resulted in an increase in the urban unemployment
rate, from 4.8% in 1971 to 5.6% in 1976. Underemployment is probably consider-
ably worse since the official statistics classify a person as being employed
if he worked only two days in a week, and a significant number of persons are
employed in extremely low-productivity trades such as hawkers, vendors, becak
(tricycle transport) drivers and petty retail traders. Urban incomes are
generally low, with at least 65% of the urban population having incomes below
US$130 per capita (1976), the estimated absolute urban poverty level.



- 11 -
28.       Indonesia's urban areas are characterized by severe deficiencies in
essential urban infrastructure. Less than one-third of the population has
access to safe drinking water. One-quarter of the 1971 urban population had
no sanitation facilities available. Of the population with access to some
sort of latrines, only 17% were served by safe, sanitary latrines. At
present, only four cities in Indonesia have sewerage systems; in each case
the system covers only a part of the city and is of limited effectiveness due
to age and inadequate capacity. Approximately 40% of the urban housing
supply consists of nonpermanent structures. These factors no doubt contribute
to the high rate of water and filth-borne diseases in Indonesia.
29.       The situation is particularly bad in the "kampung" areas - that is,
in clustered, densely populated neighborhoods that house a large proportion
of Indonesia's urban population. Many of these areas rely on open-drainage
channels to carry off rain water, septic tank effluent and household waste.
These channels deteriorate to open sewers and rubbish dumps which become
blocked in the dry season and cause flooding in the rainy season. As a
result, incidence of debilitating disease is particularly high in these
areas. Infant mortality, already a high of 116 per thousand on average in
Indonesia, reaches the alarming level of about 200 per thousand in the worst
of the kamptngs.
30.       The challenges facing Indonesia's urban policy planners are many
and complex. Of them, the most critical are to:
(a) provide minimum basic urban infrastructure in the many unserviced
or underserviced urban areas;
(b) create productive employment opportunities in urban areas in order
to combat existing urban unemployment and underemployment and
to provide jobs for new rural-urban migrants;
(c) st;imulate growth in cities other than Jakarta and Surabaya in order
to dilute the existing concentration of resources in these two primary
cities; provide off-farm employment opportunities outside Jakarta and
Surabaya for potential rural-urban migrants; build effective urban
service centers for the rural population; and
(d) develop both the administrative and financial planning capabili-
ties of the municipal authorities as well as the fiscal base of
the cities to enable them to provide the essential services.



- 12 -
The Project Cities
31.       Jakarta, the capital and largest city of Indonesia, as well as
the commercial and administrative hub of the country, has a population
close to 6 million and growing at an estimated 4.5% annually, with over
half that growth due to net migration from other parts of Indonesia.
The city experienced an even greater population growth in the 1960s and
early 1970s (approaching 6%), which caused a considerable strain on its
already inadequate services. In 1974, when Bank assistance to Jakarta's
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) began, only 10% of the population had
access to a piped water supply, approximately 50% relied on often-contami-
nated ground water wells, and 40% of householders bought water at a relatively
high-price from the city's water vendors. Before the inception of KIP, with
no public water taps or toilets, much of the population had no alternative
other than to use drainage canals, ditches, rivers and other open waterways
for bathing, laundering and defecation. KIP, initiated by the Jakarta city
government in 1969 and supported by two Bank loans (Loans 1040-IND and
1336-IND), has had a marked effect on environmental conditions in the poor
kampungs. By the end of 1979, the city will have provided basic services to
some 3.5 million of its population. On completion of the incremental KIP
scheduled during the Third Five-Year Development Plan period (1979/80-1983/84)
(Repelita III), Jakarta will have succeeded in virtually eliminating the
backlog of unserviced areas in the city.
32.       Surabaya, the capital of East Java Province, is the second largest
city in Indonesia and a major port serving Java, Madura and South Kalimantan.
Although its current population of 2.1 million is less than half that of
Jakarta, Surabaya's annual growth rate of 4.5% per annum equals that of
Jakarta. Having lost its former commercial pre-eminence to Jakarta in the
years following independence, Surabaya has, over the last decade, shown signs
of recovering its commercial/industrial importance. Since the mid-1960s, it
has attracted increasing amounts of domestic and foreign investment. In
1970, East Java accounted for 32% of the employment in manufacturing in
Indonesia, and the lion's share of that employment was located in Surabaya.
The city's expanding industrial and commercial base is expected to continue
to grow, due to stimulation from domestic and foreign investments and the
availability of port facilities (currently being upgraded) and an adequate
labor supply.  In light of its importance in the economy of the region,
Surabaya has been designated as a "regional metropolis" in Indonesia's
regional development plans.
33.       The economic growth that has taken place in Surabaya in recent
years has been accompanied by rapid population growth, which has placed
excessive demands on the existing physical and social infrastructure of the
city. Only 17% of the population has access to piped water, while 27% buy
water from vendors and the remaining rely on often contaminated supplies from



- 13 -
shallow weLls and open water courses. Roughly 60% of Surabaya's inhabitants
lack sanitary facilities for human waste disposal; facilities for solid
wastes colLection and disposal are completely inadequate; and health facili-
ties coverage is substantially lower than the standards adopted by the
Government of Indonesia. The Kampung Improvement Program launched by
the city government in 1976 with Bank assistance (Loan 1336-IND) is intended
to alleviate these conditions in the poorest areas of the city. Some 375
ha of residential kampung areas, housing nearly 10% of the city's population,
will have been provided with improved infrastructure and minimum basic
amenities by the end of 1979.
34.       IJjung Pandang, located on the southwest coast of Sulawesi, has been
a center for commerce and sea trade for centuries. It is the capital of
South Sulawesi Province as well as the urban center identified as the regional
metropolis for Eastern Indonesia, a development area which encompasses eight
eastern provinces. The present population of Ujung Pandang is estimated to
be 640,000, growing at a rate of nearly 2% per annum. Current Government
plans call for locating several timber-based heavy industries in Ujung
Pandang, which would be a considerable stimulus to its economy and could
accelerate the population growth from its present level.
35.       The environmental conditions in the kampungs of Ujung Pandang are
as bad as those in some of the worst kampungs of Jakarta and Surabaya. The
municipal government's initial response to the problems of high-density
kampungs has been to lower the density by relocating families to new settle-
ment areas. To date some 5,000 families have been relocated, but this
program has entailed a high financial and social cost, and the municipal
government has now agreed that upgrading in-situ is the only viable solution
for the foreseeable future.
36.       Semarang, the fourth largest city in Indonesia, is located on the
north coast: of Java, midway between Jakarta and Surabaya. The capital of
Central Java, it was designated in the Second Five-Year Development Plan
(1974/75-1978/79) (Repelita II) as the growth center for the "sub-development
region" that includes Central Java and Jogjakarta. Its population of nearly
760,000 is growing at an annual rate of about 2.6%. While facing increasing
competition from other coastal cities, Semarang remains an important seaport.
Incomes are low, with the median family income of Rp 24,000 per month being
about 20% lower than the national average for urban areas and about 35% lower
than in Jakarta. The principal service needs for Semarang, besides kampung
improvement, include water supply, which at present covers only 25% of the
households, and improved drainage to alleviate frequent flooding in the low
coastal areas where many of the low-income families and commercial activities
are located.
37.       Surakarta, the only inland city of the five Project Cities, is
located in Central Java, roughly midway between the north and south coasts.
It has a population of about 450,000, growing at a rate of 1.6% per annum.
Founded in 1743, Surakarta was the royal capital of the Muslim Mataram
Empire, and retains today a great cultural and historical importance to the



- 14 -
Indonesians. Surakarta is perhaps one of the poorest cities of its size in
Indonesia. Traditional crafts provide livelihood for a large number of
families. Over the last decade it experienced a general decline in economic
activity and a resultant outflow of population to other urban centers.
However , under Repelita II, Surakarta was designated as one of the "develop-
ment centers" in Central Java, and hopes to expand its role as an administra-
tive, economic and cultural/tourism hub for the Province.
Bank Group Experience in the Sector
38.       The Jakarta Urban Development Project (Loan 1040-IND), approved in
1974, was the first Bank-assisted kampung upgrading project in Indonesia. It
included the provision of minimum basic services to about 2,000 ha of densely
populated kampungs, benefitting about 900,000 persons. In addition, it included
the development of sites and services for about 7,200 low-income families.
The Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND), approved in 1976,
included a 3-year extension of KIP in Jakarta to cover a further 3,000 ha of
unserviced kampungs, benefitting an additional 1.2 million people, and
extended the program to Surabaya to upgrade about 375 ha, benefitting some
200,000 persons. These services have been provided at a per capita cost
(December 1978) of $69 in Jakarta and about $35 in Surabaya. The second
project also included pilot programs in Jakarta and Surabaya for training of
volunteer community health workers, who would be based in the kampungs to
provide simple preventative health care.
39.       Execution of KIP under both projects has been fully satisfactory.
All infrastructure works under the first project have been completed within
the original estimate. Works under the second project in both Jakarta and
Surabaya are proceeding on schedule, with the first two years of the program
(or about 65% of the total project) having been substantially completed by
July 1978. The only delays have been in completing the requisite number of
community facilities, due to difficulties with land acquisition. Most of the
kampungs are densely populated with little open space available. The diffi-
culties in land acquisition are, therefore, likely to continue. However, the
municipal governments are attempting to overcome these problems by promoting
greater community participation at an early stage of the project planning
each year.
40.       The success of KIP to date has had a major impact on Government
policy. The approach to kampung improvement -- low per-capita costs by using
only the minimum necessary standards, the programmatic approach to provide
services to all unserviced areas and reliance on local governments for execu-
tion and financing -- has been adopted as official policy by the Government.
The Government proposes an expansion of the program to other cities in the
Third Five-Year Development Plan period (1979/80-1983/84)(Repelita III).
41.       The sites and services component of the first project is about two
years behind schedule, primarily because of land acquisition problems. These
problems have now been resolved and construction is underway. The first 4,000
of the total 7,200 families have been settled on the site. A principal
objective of the sites and services component, which addresses shelter needs



- 15 -
for the growth in population, was that it could be rapidly expanded to a
complementary program to KIP which, in turn, addresses the existing deficien-
cies of serviced urban land and shelter for low-income families. This
objective, however, has not been fully realized so far for two reasons.
First, the concept of sites and services is new in Indonesia and represents a
major departure from the conventional housing programs; it has taken time
for the various parts of the Government and the public to fully understand
and accept this concept for public housing. Second, land acquisition is a
difficult and time consuming process in Indonesia because of the weakness of
the legislation governing land acquisition for public purposes. This has
severely restricted the Government's ability to acquire well located urban
land at a reasonable price, which is essential for sites and services and
low-income housing projects. The Government recognizes this constraint and
has under consideration various steps to strengthen the legislation. In
addition, it is examining other approaches to urban land development such as
land consolidation and in-fill development of plots in low-density peripheral
kampungs. The Bank is providing technical assistance in support of these
efforts. It is hoped that the resolution of these problems over the next
year or two will enable the Government and the Bank to support expanded
programs for shelter.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       I'he proposed project was prepared by Cipta Karya, with assistance
of consultants financed mainly under Loan 1040-IND. The project was
appraised in June/July 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2211b-IND
dated December 12, 1978) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from November 28 to December 5, 1978, with the Indonesian delegation led by
Mr. Radinal Moochtar, Director-General of Cipta Karya.
Project Obj ectives
43.       The proposed project would continue the Government's initiative in
kampung improvement and have two principal objectives. First, it is designed
to further support the Government's efforts of providing essential services
to low-income neighborhoods (kampungs) in Jakarta and Surabaya, and to extend
the program to three additional secondary cities (Ujung Pandang, Semarang and
Surakarta). The extension of KIP to secondary cities is in keeping with
Government policy to develop a national program for kampung improvement
during Repe'lita III, and would initiate the process of development of secondary
cities. Strengthening of local governments' capabilities to sustain the
program over the long-term would be an important aspect of the project.
Second, the scope of the project would be expanded to include in Jakarta
and Surabaya (where the KIP concept is well-established) other investments
aimed at improving general public health, such as problems of solid wastes
management and drainage. In addition, the project also includes support for
community health services, based on pilot programs initiated under the second
project.



- 16 -
Detailed Features of the Project
44.       Kampung Improvement Program.  Basic infrastructure services,
including roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, sanitation, solid wastes
collection, schools and health facilities, would be provided in low-income
unserviced kampung areas covering an area of about 2,185 ha benefitting an
estimated total of 765,000 persons in the five Project Cities. Specific
kampungs to be upgraded and the design standards for the various services
have been agreed with each of the local governments, and would not be changed
without prior Bank agreement (Section 3.02 of and Schedule 5 to the draft
Loan Agreement). The cost of the services to be provided is estimated at
about US$69 per capita (December 1978 prices) in Jakarta and US$35-45 per
capita (December 1978 prices) in the other four cities. As in the previous
projects, the upgrading would be carried out in-situ, with only the very
minimum disturbance of the existing dwellings. In Jakarta, water and sani-
tation services would be provided to an additional 2,400 ha of high-density
kampungs (1.4 million persons), which were upgraded during Repelita I
(1969-74) to bring their level of improvement to standards adopted for KIP in
Repelita II, providing one public hydrant for a neighborhood of 30-50
families.
45.       Solid Wastes Management.  The project would support the initiation
of long-term programs to improve solid wastes management in Jakarta and
Surabaya.  The programs are intended to alleviate the critical environmental
pollution problem caused in these cities by uncollected and improperly
disposed solid wastes, which account for 40-50% of all solid wastes generated.
Regular programs of drain cleaning and door-to-door collection of solid
wastes will be initiated, particularly in the low-income Kampung. The
project provides the necessary infrastructure for the collection, transport
and sanitary disposal of the wastes. A pilot project for sanitary land fill
is included to demonstrate the technical and economic viability of this
method of disposal for Indonesian conditions. By the end of the project
period, about 1.5 million persons in Jakarta and 500,000 in Surabaya would be
provided with an acceptable standard of solid wastes collection services.
46.       Drainage Improvements:  Surabaya.  The dredging and desilting of
about 9 km of main drainage canals, and rehabilitation of about 4 existing
pumping stations, would be carried out under the project. These works have
been identified as immediate improvement works in Surabaya's drainage and
flood control master plan, prepared in 1970 and revised in 1976. The program
would help alleviate flooding in an estimated 1,000 ha of densely populated
areas of the city, including many of the kampungs proposed for improvement.
Assurances have been obtained that arrangements, satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank, will be made for relocating the estimated 500 families to be
displaced by these works (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Community Health Services.  The proposed project includes training,
equipment and materials for about 500 volunteer community workers (CHW) in
Jakarta and about 275 in Surabaya. Each CHW will serve 100-200 families and
will be trained to provide services to residents of kampungs included in the
project, focussing on environmental hygiene, maternal and child health care,



- 17 -
minor curative and first aid treatment, immunization and nutrition education,
family planning, and health referral services. The cost of the training
will average about $2 per capita of population served.
48.       Land Registration:  Surabaya.  The project provides assistance to
carry out a five-year program of registration of land rights throughout the
city of Surabaya. At present, rights to land are often uncertain. It is
estimated that less than 10% of the land rights in Surabaya are registered.
This has hindered upgrading of the housing stock in the kampungs, sometimes
led to abuse regarding compensation paid for public acquisition of land, and
discouraged the establishment of a mortgage system using land rights as
security.
49.       Technical Assistance and Training.  About 500 man-months of foreign
and 450 man-months of local consultants' services have been provided to assist
in: (i) project planning, design and implementation; (ii) solid wastes
management; (iii) training of staff in property valuation and implementation
of a valuation system in Surabaya; (iv) implementation of a planning,
programming and budgeting system for the city of Surabaya; (v) management
assistance to Cipta Karya; and (vi) preparation of future urban development
projects.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost is estimated at $96 million (exclusive of
direct taxes), with a foreign exchange component of $32.7 million (34%).
Cost estimates include provision for physical and price contingencies. Price
escalation factors assumed on the basis of recent trends are: for civil works
and locally manufactured equipment, 23% in 1979, 16% in 1980, 13% in both
1981 and 1982, and 9% thereafter; and for foreign equipment and vehicles, 7%
per annumL throughout the project period. Consultant costs have been estimated
at $8,000/man-month (including all overheads, housing and travel) for expa-
triate firms, and $1,600/man-month for local firms.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $54 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project and $21.3 million of local costs.
Financing; of local costs is considered justified as this high priority project
has a relatively low foreign exchange component and in view of the tightening
domestic resource constraint (paragraph 19 above). Part of the Bank loan
($49.3 million) would be relent to the five Project Cities concerned at an
interest rate of not less than 1/4% higher than that of the Bank loan, with
a repayment period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The Cities
would, in addition, finance $37.5 million of project costs from their own
resources. The Central Government would provide a total of about $2.9
million on a grant basis to the three smaller cities (Ujung Pandang,
SurakartaL and Semarang) as a contribution towards KIP, and to DKI to cover
the cost of the pilot phase of the solid wastes management program. The
remaining $4.7 million of the Bank loan would be passed on as budgetary
grants to Cipta Karya and the Ministry of Finance ($4.1 million and $0.06
million respectively for technical assistance). The foreign exchange risk



- 18 -
will be borne by the Government. The signing of subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and each of the Project Cities is a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan (Sections 3.03 and 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement
52.       Vehicles and equipment for the solid wastes management programs and
the drainage improvement work (estimated to cost $10.5 million) would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. For purposes of bid evaluation, a preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of imported goods, or the level of customs duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to qualified domestic manufacturers.
53.       Contracts (estimated to cost about $68.9 million) will be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, acceptable to the Bank,
for: (a) all infrastructure works, schools and clinics for KIP: (b) depots,
collection facilities and the access road for the sanitary landfill sites;
(c) dredging of canals and rehabilitation of pumping stations; and (d) furni-
ture, equipment and supplies for the school and health facilities. Foreign
contractors are not likely to be interested in bidding on these works because
of the large number of small contracts (about 200 in number and estimated to
range from between $10,000 to $500,000 each) of short duration; the labor-
intensive nature of the works; and the difficulty of working in densely
inhabited kampungs. Medical supplies, vehicles and equipment for the
health worker programs, which would be required only in small quantities
would be purchased through prudent shopping.
Disbursements
54.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover 50% of total costs
for civil works in Jakarta, and 65% in the other four Project Cities; 100% of
total expenditures for consultants and training; 65% of total costs of
supplies and equipment procured locally; 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
directly imported vehicles, equipment and supplies and 95% of the cost of
locally supplied materials and equipment procured after ICB; and 40% of total
expenditures for locally procured vehicles.
Project Implementation
55.       With the exception of the land registration program in Surabaya (to
be carried out by Agraria) /1 and the system of property valuation in Surabaya
(to be carried out by the Directorate-General of Taxes in cooperation with
the City of Surabaya), the project will be implemented by the Cities concerned,
under the technical supervision of Cipta Karya. In accordance with the
Government's law on the principles of regional autonomy, the Directorate-
General of Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) will, as
appropriate, exercise supervisory functions to facilitate execution of the
project. The planning and implementation of the kampung improvement program
(KIP) will be carried out in each Project City by a special KIP Unit, whose
/1 Department of Land Affairs.



- 19 -
a special KIP? Unit, whose manager will report to the City Mayor. Since the
works under KIP cut across the responsibility of several municipal departments,
the Unit wil:L be guided by a Steering Committee whose membership will include
heads of the principal departments concerned, as well as the district head
(Camat) of the area where the works are to be carried out. In each city, the
Unit will define kampung areas for improvement, develop a btudget and financial
plan, hold consultations with the community, prepare layout designs and
contract documents, supervise construction and, in close coordination with
the office oE Agraria and community leaders, arrange for necessary land
acquisition.
56.       The KIP Units set up in Jakarta and Surabaya to execute the program
under the presvious two Bank-assisted projects are functioning satisfactorily,
and similar Units have been established in Ujung Pandang, Semarang and
Surakarta to carry out the program in those cities. Staffing requirements
for each city Unit have been agreed with the municipal governments concerned,
and assurances have been obtained that all KIP Units will be fully staffed by
April 30, 1979 (Section 3.05(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Since the
program will be new in three of the five Project Cities, it is important that
the principles and major policy features are understood by both the government
officials and the project beneficiaries.   Accordingly, the Mayors of each of
the cities (other than Jakarta, where KIP concepts are well established) have
issued Mayoral Decrees outlining, inter alia, the nature and extent of the
program. These Decrees will be supplemented by a general statement from the
Director-General of PUOD outlining policies governing KIP in all cities,
which will include those relating to only minimum disturbance of existing
houses, compensation for land and property acquisition, and the granting of
long-term leaseholds to families squatting on public land. Assurances have
been obtained that, by April 1, 1979, PUOD will issue a directive, in form
and substance acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank, to each Project
City setting forth the policies governing KIP (Section 3.05(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
57.       The community health services program was developed on a pilot
scale in Jakarta and Surabaya under Loan 1336-IND and is to be extended in
those cities under the proposed project. The training of community health
workers is presently conducted by municipal health department staff in
Jakarta and Surabaya, and a full-time project director (who is a qualified
doctor) is responsible for implementation of the program in each city.
58.       The municipal Cleansing Departments of Jakarta and Surabaya will be
responsible for the implementation of their respective solid wastes management
programs. Under the project, the functions of the Cleansing Department in
each city will be gradually expanded to include household collection of
wastes and drain cleaning in addition to their present responsibility for
transport and disposal of wastes. This would establish a unified control of
solid wastes management activities in each city, which is considered to be
vital for an, effective solid wastes management service. The organiza--iou.al
structure of the Cleansing Department in Jakarta is satisfactory to permit it
to assume the increased responsiblity.  Surabaya, however, at present accords
very low staLtus to cleansing services which are controlled by a 3rd-tier



- 20 -
division of the Public Works Department. The establishment of a separate
Cleansing Department in Surabaya is vital in order to give appropriate status
to solid wastes management services and to attract management of adequate
quality. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) the City of Surabaya will
establish a separate Cleansing Department no later than April 1, 1979
(Section 3.06 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement); and (b) Jakarta and Surabaya
will maintain a solid wastes planning unit in their respective Cleansing
Departments (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
59.       The financing mechanism from KIP in Indonesia, which has evolved
over the past five years with two Bank-financed projects, relies entirely on
municipal resources. There are no direct levies such as a betterment tax or
plot charges imposed on the residents. There are various reasons for the
Government adopting this mechanism. First, the types of urban services
provided under KIP are similar to those routinely provided to the higher-income
neighborhoods without levying any charges. The Government has taken the view
that to institute a special tax on KIP beneficiaries would be inequitable.
Second, the argument in favor of direct levies on beneficiaries rests on the
desire to ensure that the program can be sustained over the long-term so that
the services can be provided to all kampung areas. The Government has
addressed this issue by (a) an explicit focus on the standards employed with
an aim to keeping these at a minimum level consistent with achieving the health
objectives of the project, and (b) ensuring that the municipal taxes increase
at a sufficient rate to pay for an expanding program. Third, and most
importantly, imposition of direct levies (e.g. plot charges) on beneficiaries
would require a massive effort in cadastral surveys and in clarification and
registration of tenure for each of the large number of families benefitting
annually from the program. Such an effort is beyond the administrative
capacity of the local governments and the Central Government. Finally,
collection would have to be spread over time and, in many instances, the cost
of collection may exceed the revenues generated.
60.       For solid wastes collection at present, the municipal governments
levy no direct charge on the residents since the municipal services cover
only the transportation of solid wastes from the collection points to the
disposal sites; the residents themselves organize the collection. However,
under the proposed project, the responsibility for wastes collection would
gradually, and in stages, shift from the community to the municipality thus
requiring increased outlays from the municipal budgets. The most appropriate
mechanism for raising resources for the service is not clear. It is estimated
that a direct charge of about Rp 250 - Rp 375 (40i - 60i) per month per
family would be sufficient to pay for the collection services. It is not
clear whether it would be administratively cost-effective to collect such
small individual charges. Also, there is concern that the low-income families
may not be willing/able to pay these charges. During the first two years of
the project, a study will be carried out in each city to determine the most
appropriate mechanism for charging for solid wastes services. One or more
different methods will be tried out on a pilot scale before making final
recommendations for the city as a whole.



- 21 -
Affordability, Replicability and Poverty Impact
61.       Even though the project would not impose any direct charges on the
beneficiaries, appropriate design standards have been employed to ensure that
the cost are compatible with the income levels of the beneficiaries. The low
level of income in Indonesian cities generally has dictated using low-cost
methods for service delivery. As an indication of this, the entire cost of
kampung improvement ($69 per capita in Jakarta and $40 per capita in other
cities in December 1978 prices) could be recovered over 15 years at 8%
interest with an average monthly charge per household of Rp 2,260 ($3.60) in
Jakarta and about Rp 1,345 ($2.15) in the other cities. This is equivalent
to less than 5% of the average monthly household income of families living in
kampungs. Similarly, average charges for solid wastes collection services,
if levied directly, would amount to less than 2% of the average monthly
household income of these families. This level of charges is within the
amount typically spent on shelter and services by low-income families in
Indonesia.
62.       Tle approach to kampung improvement being followed by the Government
has already demonstrated in Jakarta its ability to sustain the program at a
desirable scale of operation. After completion of the proposed project, the
Jakarta KIP program would be unique in having been successful in providing
basic services to virtually all of the unserviced areas in the city, covering
a population of nearly 4.0 million in less than 12 years. A national program
of kampung improvement, covering the entire backlog of unserviced urban areas
in the country (estimated to cover 65% of urban population) and covering the
projected annual growth of unserviced areas (estimated at 5-7%), will cost
about $55 million (December 1978 prices). This represents about 1.5% of the
Government development expendituires and less than 0.2% of GDP. This level of
investment is well within the expenditures devoted to shelter by countries at
Indonesia's stage of development.
63.       The kampung improvement part of the project would benefit about
2.2 million persons, of which roughly 1.63 million are estimated to be from
the urban poverty target group as defined by the Bank's Urban Poverty Task
Force. Of the estimated 2.0 million beneficiaries of the solid wastes
management program, at least 1.3 million will be from the urban poverty
group. It is estimated that 65% of total project cost can be attributed as
directly benefitting those below the poverty level.
Local Government Finance
64.       Municipal local government finances in Indonesia are generally weak
and revenues inadequate to provide even the minimum basic services to the
population., The municipal governments depend heavily on subsidies from the
Central Government for a significant part (up to 50%) of their recurrent and
development expenditures. In order for the cities to provide the critically
needed infrastructure, it is essential that their self-generated revenues be
augmented, particularly in view of the forecasted stabilization or even
decline of Central Government subsidies in the next few years.



- 22 -
65.       The project would attempt to strengthen the fiscal base of the
Cities of Surabaya, Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta (Jakarta has
managed over the last five years to increase its revenues by over 50% per
annum). Under the project, the Cities would attempt to obtain increased
yields from property tax (IPEDA), which is a grossly under-utilized source of
revenues in Indonesian cities. Assurances have been obtained that each of
these four Project Cities will achieve an average annual increase of not less
than 30% (representing a 10-15% increase in real per capita terms) in IPEDA
tax collections between 1978/79 and 1983/84 (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).  This would be achieved by introducing specific improvements in
IPEDA of the type introduced in Jakarta in the past five years. These
include periodically reclassifying areas into different value zones as the
physical conditions in the areas change; making periodic adjustments to the
coefficients used to determine the level of tax; updating the land-value map
to provide reference information on property values in different parts of the
City; and increasing the collection rate. The suggested increase in IPEDA
represents a realistic level of performance and will be sufficient to meet
the debt service and current obligations of the Cities resulting from the
project.
66.       While in the short term it may be necessary to look for ways in
which the yield from IPEDA could be increased, in the longer term it would be
essential that more fundamental changes are made in the system. The Government
recognizes this and has under consideration several measures which would
achieve a greater yield from IPEDA. As a first step, it proposes to move to
market values as the basis for assessment of property taxes rather than using
rental values, which is the current practice. This would make assessments
across properties more equitable and introduce a certain amount of bouyancy
in the tax base. The project would initiate a systematic program of property
valuation in Surabaya. Assurances have been obtained that the Government would:
(a) not later than September 30, 1979, furnish to the Bank for its comments
the design of the property valuation system for Surabaya; and (b) train staff
for the purpose of implementing the above system, starting not later than
December 31, 1979, under a program acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank
(Section 3.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Justification
67.       There are two types of bepefits expected from the project:  (i)
direct service benefits to project beneficiaries which would have a substantial
impact on public health conditions, and (ii) institution building effects of
project implementation. The project would particularly help in providing
low-cost services to low-income families and in developing the institutional
capacity for this purpose. The kampung improvement program in the five
project cities will provide essential basic services including water, sanita-
tion, drainage, roads, footpaths, schools and health facilities to an
estimated 2.25 million persons living in low-income kampungs at an average
cost of $45/capita. Typical residents of kampungs proposed for improvement
presently live under extremely unhygenic conditions. The proposed solid



- 23 -
wastes management program would provide an acceptable level of service to
some 2.0 million residents of Jakarta and Surabaya who at present have at
best a partial service. The project would emphasize low-cost, labor-intensive
methods of solid wastes collection and disposal which are appropriate for
Indonesian conditions. The drainage improvement program would provide relief
from flooding to about 1,000 ha of built-up area in Surabaya with an estimated
population of 300,000. In all cases, the project would emphasize the develop-
ment of the administrative and financial capacity of the local governments to
sustain these programs over the long-term.
68.       Besides physical improvements, the proposed project would also
address the socio-economic needs of the kampungs. The community health
worker program would attempt to expand the coverage of low-cost community-based
health services in the kampungs.
69.       Quantitative evaluation of the benefits of KIP was based on the
estimated increase in property values brought about by the provision of
infrastructure and services. Although certain project benefits may be only
indirectly and imperfectly reflected in the market value of property in the
project area (e.g. increased human productivity via improved health), it is
believed that property values provide a useful indicator of the minimum value
of project outputs. Within this framework, the economic rates of return for
the proposed kampung improvement program in Jakarta and Surabaya are 78% and
over 100% respectively. It is likely that since KIP provides for a major
expansion cf serviced areas in each of the cities, the increase in property
values may be less than the present value differential between serviced and
unserviced areas. It is difficult to forecast the extent to which the
differential may be reduced. However, sensitivity analysis indicates that a
50% reduction in benefits would still yield a rate of return of 28% in
Jakarta and 52% in Surabaya. The high rate of return of the project is an
indication of the extreme shortage of serviced land in Indonesia's urban
areas. The rate of return for KIP in other project cities is expected to be
comparable to Jakarta and Surabaya. It is not possible to quantify the
benefit of the other project components as they yield either primarily
health-related benefits or improved productivity which cannot be measured.
The estimated weighted average rate of return for the entire kampung improve-
ment portion of the project, which accounts for 65% of total project cost, is
85%.
Project Risks
70.       The chief risk of the proposed project stems from the local govern-
ments inexperience with kampung improvement in the three smaller cities --
Semarang, lJjung Pandang, and Surakarta -- where KIP units are only now being
created. A great deal will depend on the ability of the local governments to
mobilize competent teams of people to execute the KIP program. The project
provides for technical assistance to strengthen the nascent KIP units. In
addition, elose supervision by Cipta Karya, Dalam Negeri and the Bank will be
required to ensure timely and competent execution of the project.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic on Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is the
signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and each of the
Project Cities.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 4, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNE I
- 25 -                                                 Page 1
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                 La
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM4.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1904.3                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      283.8                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP Jd    GROUP 7e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0        140.0      300.0            616.0       182.9        432.3
ENERGI CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0     178.0            522.0        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         94.7        117.6     133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9           17.5       17.9             30.1        15.0        24.2
POPUlLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. [e.                         50.0         62.0      70.0            156.8        46.8         42.7
PlER SQ. 104. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0        419.0     470.0            794.8       254.1         95.0
POIPLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0--14 YRS.                          42.1 If      44.0      42.1             40.8        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           55.3 7f      53.5      55.1             55.4        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6 If       2.5       2.8               3.2        2.9          3.0
PO 'IJLATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                2.1          2.0       2.0              2.3         2.4          2.7
AIlBAN                                            3.7 /R    2.6              5.1         4.0          8.8
CRtlDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         45.9       40.3             34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.4         20.6       19.9              8.7        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          3.2        2.5              2.6         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            0.2       13.7            22.1        14.6         14.2
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOID PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               96.5        100.0     102.7            106.8        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMtENTS)                    S9.0        91.0       98.0            108.7        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         43.0      43.8             57.7        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.0 Ih      14.0      16.6             17.0        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..         ..             4.0          ..          7.5
HEALITH
LII'E EXPECTANCY AT BIkTH (YEARS)    47.5          45.0      45.3             59.0        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            125.0 /f.s      ..     116.0             44.0       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
COTAL                                 *-          3.0      11.0             21.9        26.4         31.1
U]RBAN                                ..         10.0      41.0             58.3        63.5        68.5
tURAL                                 ..          1.0       4.0              9.8        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         12.0      15.0             28.6        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                 ..         50.0      60.0             66.6        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                 ..         4.0        5.0             14.8         3.4        25.4
POP'ULATION PER PHYSICIAN          41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0            4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POIPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       7770.0 7  7310.0 7         1520.2      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1370.0      1670.0    1430.0             657.1      1157.6       786.5
IJRBAN                                ..      1130.0         ..            145.5       183.3       278.4
RURAL                                 *-      1890.0         ..           1011.8      1348.8      1358.4
AD]tISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             19.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4          4.8        ..              5.2         5.2
URBAN                                4.9         5.3         ..              5.2        4.8
RURAL                                4.3         4.7         ..              5.4        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.5         ..
URBAN                                 *-         1.6         ..               ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                                 ..          1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 *-        63.5         ..             39.1       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                           75.5
RURAL                                 *-        39.1         ..               ..        8.7         10.3



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                              Page 2
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                  la
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 67.0          75.0      81.0              95.6        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0          70.0      75.0              93.7        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0          15.0      18.0              43.3        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                  3.0         11.0      13.0              38.6         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0           22.0        21.0             11.3         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         29.0       30.0              30.0        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0       15.0              25.4        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          47.0 /k      59.0       62.0 /k          84.0        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0          2.0        3.0              9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0           ..      39.0              97.6        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          0.7         ..             21.8         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           ..       16.0             25.9         6.0          16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..              4.6         1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0        44200.0   48430.0 /I
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.9          31.0      34.2              33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                75.0         69.0       60.1             48.4        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.4          9.7         8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  54.1         49.9       52.6             38.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   79.8         68.7       73.8             48.6        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 29.4         32.1       36.8             28.4        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.3        1.2              1.2          1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         33.7  m      ..             17.3        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            52.0 j       *-             45.6        45.1         48.9
-LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.8 L       *.              6.5         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         17.3 /m      ..             17.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Us$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      125.0            140.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..      95.0             112.8        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       55.0             76.8        42.0         87.3
ESTILMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       55.0             27.7        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       59.0             40.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita, 1976);   /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /R  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /1  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;   /I  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jaya;  /m  Income recipients.
September 1978



- 27 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3
i'FF M lyffION.'0 hOC Iil. 1. TA7
n.   asaed-              orfn.  ore  oeerl.nI  fudgedte  ot  uchriale  n  reieie1 a,,h-IIAd                            1 *In.',.:d  'hI, lh-n 7yn:  efte
deco  fir,.rrrt  fmgI tu~de, .ind Ict:S. trend., .nd therccerie1n S ctai .    a)ori diiffr___e  h..ero~rre
71, el.:etroooe e   for ...h ind Iator epopuiatine-wcihtsd geometri  mean-t , ex lud .....h...t..re... uI .r  o  r,, Indi..c-tredtem
p.. .  el mim  ..    red, .:.up.   oveotorof o ountri c a.n the......  iniao dp_end.o    dnialt.p.of I   .      1 -eu:urffr. t     tu~ 1 o -act of dat
rptfrpopultI-o-we ff::d geoverir niee i-        n   the  nciu-ion ofexrm   tu.
LIt'; AhIA  th-u-td s. ica                                                                  -o1aio            h2!pit!l ond - tot2.,;    a.en   url-  oulair   tti
- Toal  urito.aoe  c-pri.ir.  land crxa  nd in land wtr,uban.  Snd ccI.) dIiniad by th ir reepctv  numr of ho.pita Ibd
A,crI-1t--.r   -  foct recant estimate of agtiru StnI .aeated ted,prerrily                   -naiabie inpblic aed privateS general and epcciai1ed hospitl.andre
orpraety fo7 cr:,pn. pactunee* market and bitch.   adn   nt                         habllit.t=t   cen1ter. fHeepitl tare ecnabliehbntmpemannty a fdb
lix fallow.                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~tr I... t onepnSicii. ttabiichcceta providing Principelly c-todial
cars are%netincluded. .Rural hosp1tttc. hhwenSr. Inciud. health and medi-
iffl PER CAPITA CUSS) - GCAP par c.pit. ettimatte at crrent.-macb  price.,                   c.lotnrc  ot permanentlycstaffdby *pbccla. (bat by a medical as-
ca1Icu -ic  by east.. --tvei.O method at W.rld Bank Atlas (1971-77 basie);                Site.nn tnuIlce.     1 miwfe.  etc.    hich off.r in-pati.tn  accmdttin  andd
,9h   1171.ed17   ..                                                                      pravid aS    i      ried.ag   f medical  facilltltc.
Ad!misei... par hospiel  be  -  oc   ubrofaeIie   o  rdchr
tuaocycoci'r'rcn yPE  inpThA - knnul1ocapio   f   -osrnit1 aneroy                       f-r noePinto1 divided by nb  ntbr0tbe.
one ..od lignit., pt~roleum, nastural See end bydro-, nuclear ad geo-                                                  t-- - f..
therma  electricity) in hilograee  of coast cquinasnt Per capit.                      igOUIIIGl
POPULATIOS kND VITAL STAIISTICS                                    ~~~~Alecae s x  of   hutbld  p.....n  er h ace bold)- toal   rbn, and nu.al-
piiL'.iiyhb.ftfVIAlSTAISIC 'A .uabld) SntecSo dgrup of  idiiuea  b   hbSr living  -urt.rc
-ot  populatIo. and-er fetione      s  fJly1   f  o   valb                                 and tbeir "ain .eale.  A boardcr or lodger may or may not bc inoluded in
arag   oftw  ad-er Seimte;  9 i. i9yp. Snd 1977 daa.ie bou...hold fto Statistical purpoase.  Statititcal defiittloxa If beu..-
trIsn oco-lotion Iporent of_to_tIl)   Ratio of urban to total popula-                        bold var."
tion  diiferenx  dotmoion        of urban an... may affeex coperability                 Av-rtee number of paraeox  P       0r rom -total,_urban, and rura  - Av-rage mum-
of uccu  mong contries,bat of pare..na perro   nal   t ,a rralocpied conventional
pnhatndnIy                                                                          dwelig.   essti1y.D-1Itne. exclud.enox-permaxet atructaree and
PR!   ci  rn      id-Year Population pet aquare bilomet., (lii b-ectr)                      unoccu pied part..
ci total area.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Accesa to electrictiy (percent of dwelling.) - tntel. urba. and rnnui -
Per e. ix  agrcultre lnd - Computed as  bove fon agricultural Isod                  Conv-ntional d.ellinge with cleotricity to living quentere as pernaxtage
on.... -                                                           o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f total, urban, and rural dwellings respectivelv.
Poultons    cructuorj Iprr-teo    -,Children  (i0-S  peo),wrin-
f 4Y.anu, and retired  AbJ year Stad              asr)ccpar ngc  of mid-          EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adluated enrolm-nt ratio.
gtowt  rata 01totlnd urban mid-year populetion-  fur 1950-At.                        St the primary level aa percetage. If  rapcti   primary ch:.t-a
1960-70, and 17-71                                                                        populations; no r,as , inoludes children agcd b-iyears but  datdfo
Crude birth rate (pcr Chousand) - Aooual live births per thutasnd of                        different lengths of primary educatIon; for onunt,iee with urnine.r.a  ed.-
etA-yeer poplanto.;ten-peat arithmetic eeee   nigI  1910 sodi                             cation erolmntsa  tooted ii percent elena tome pupile are below or
1970 and five-pYote SSerge ending in 1975 for-etraceet estimate.                          abo-t the official School aSS..
Cti.n death rate (Per thcusand) - Annual deat   per tbousa.d of mid-                      Sec ondary euhool -  .tonl. atd f .al. - Coeput:d ai.b-v; .. eaodary educ-
yapoltion: ten--year arithmetic  gnaag c edingi  196Qand 1970                      tiox rarpuirec St least Sour peer. of cppr-ved primar   ltutix; pm-
and fc--yat S org    eigIn17   o  -Icant eeimt.                                          vidas gcner.1 nottional, or teacher traiiginstructon  frPupile,
true  rerodutio  rat. -Aveox ma  ofduhtcnaSawmaIll.1  bear                           usually of 12 to 17 yearS of ag; -ooepondxceonu-ae:r arm.. genrell
in. hernrmlepocte priod i  ehmperieecc  pn... ntiege-                                     excluded.
conuiflo~ fertility rmite; uauaIly five-year avracecdleg to 1910,                       Voatoalenolmn  fterco  of :mcocd,y) - voca.tional Ite-tituti.... in-
19701, and 197!.                                                                          dude t!eheice.l,..industrial. or other progrm. which aperate iedcpeedentl,
PemIl  yennnt -   ccecre   nna  (thou..nd.) - Annul 'somber of                         or as departmexts of etcondary inetituti.ee.
ocepItoro of hircb-,cirnil devicesunder auspice. of national family                    ?Puil-t ...her ratio -ptmr.and egr...deoy - Total  tcudents enrolled it
planning PrngcSr                                                                          primary and seondary lencte divided by nuslera of tea-heor  in the come.-
FamIly  ianntn     -  erm I p.rnont of married   xe   Parcenc-ge of                     anodieg levele
-arotd women  f chlld-boaring age (15-ud   oar.) who u.. birth-control.                Ad-tlnfitnr-  rate  (p*rcent) - Lit.rete adulix  (able to rea d and write) 
dnnzc  to almrtisd woe  in cas  age goolip.                                               a percentage of total adult population aged 15 pears add  -ver.
rOOD AoND NUTRITION                                                                      COSiUSPTiON
Inde  of food lproduction pe.rfc:epit, 1197 0-100) - ledem umeber of per                 Passenger cars bet tho..eand Population) - Pa..e.ngnr care comprise meter cars
oat.t  annalproducco   of al  food  oMediciec.                                        sea ting l..a ch.x eight parsons:  eaclud.e umbulancs. hearses and military
Pet -apita cuppl, of clrn  (perent of reguir-eots) - Computed from                       v-hile.s
--ngy squ-Inatt of net feod suppliee available in noun.try Par tapita                  Radio Taceivere  (per thousand populction) - All types of te...incrs for radio
per d.-  Available  _uptlee comprtas dommti  production, imports I.eem                  brod,at toi, generalpublic per th ...ood of population; ancludguniene
enyorto,an  chengsin stock.  fNa   upplies maclode animal foed, needs,                  recever  inacontric  ard in years when registralion of radio nets wee in
uunite  uad info-d procn...ing. end locases in distribution.  Re-                 Waftt; data for rece.nt years may not be compara. la Since most countries
quiteent wer  meItmaed by FAO base.d on physiologica  need. for nor-                    abolIshed lic...aing.
na   o tY adhat   osderingeviometl  epratr,bd                                    TV reneiv-re (par thou ..nd population) - TV r.e.ei-ec  for bco.dcast in Sen*rfi
weight.,  age end sen:  ittbutoneo  populatIon.  end ellowng lt Par-                       public per thouxandppltin   oc.ludes unlicente  TV rcivera ix, coun-
Pe- ocoit      up ty ofu oa.p.~j..... 1     parl d.  - Protain cent.oc ef pee.ne,e  circulay.tion (iper thouean  onutso.) .. Shoveithe  -vergx ciroula-
Osyica net  uPp,Iy  f foo  perda.  Net Supply of food is defloed as                       tion of "daily gentra1 intercetnwsapr . dfined SS a periodical publi-
ebov.Rqurm e  o   l  coumtrlcs established by USDA prevideSo                              cation devoted primarily to recording general ote. It isconsidered to
a  los     llweT ef"Ii greama of total prtla per day and 20 gtaaa,                 be "daily" if itaperatlsttu tmcawek.
oftexa  ad pulse pr.tci.. of which 10 Zrm. shul  haI.l Protein.                   Cleea annua  attendance per ca!p_tS_pn,.e  ear -t Baed on the number of tickct
TheSe Standrde are lover thax thoa. of 75 grosa If  ntelprotein and                       ..Id during the Year. Icldin.gaadmSi Sionn  cxdiv-f. ciosa  sad mobilc
22 gross of animal protele ac ax avrege, for the serld, proposed by                       units.
FAt In, the Third Woxld food Survey.
par capita protin Supply from animal and Pulse - Protein Supply of feod                 EML0'tlEW
derive   fro     i-oeal  anid pulses i  ga'm   pSr day.                                Total labor force (thousanda).- EConx,mically activepeeo iaIncluding armmed
Ch:ild fae      ) mortAlity rats  (par th=etd) - Annual deaths per tho..-                    fetaedvepue   a   aludlog bhe-ioi.e.,.acudeot., etc.  Dmfini-
and in age group 1-u years. no children in this age group.                                Clon  ixvri..e cutisare eat comparable.
resale (Percent) - Female labor forte as parceet.ge of total labor foron.
HEAL.TH                                                                                   Agricu1ture (porentex) - Labor forts in farming, forestry, huttiog and fishing
-              ~~~~~~~Life  ..p-t-aoc  at birth (y.are) - Averge number of years of life                    as parrentage of total labor ferc..
remining So  birth; ....lly five-pr  -v-anS.  ending io. 1960. 1970.                   Induenry fp.rcont) -,Labar force in minion. comtetruion. maxufscturin  and
and 1975.                                                                                 sl1-tri.lty, wa.tn and Ss. as percentageIoftotal labor Earns.
Infant mortality rcoe (par thoucand) - Annual deatbe of infants under                    Parcicip.tci  rare (oarc.nt) - rtati. male, and female - Total,  -le, sodd
one year of age per thousand live bihthi.                                                  feetle labor force aSS psecentages of their repective pop.l.tioS.
Aco.... to nafe wate " r   ...ret ofP.. opulatio) - total, urban, and rural -                These are li.Ce ad)utead partinipsxide  retec reflecting uSe-se
huruber of people (total, urban, and ru ral) with ress....ble ace... to                     trocture of th  population, and long tine trend.
uaeutot Supply )includes treat.d arfxce w4ates or uteatetd but                     Zt...nefc de....dotty ratio - Ratio of population une..           te   iad  not
crz-eta -ct    aercc  astht from  prot*cted,  ovbolee,:P. epringe.                         the labor farot in age group of 15-bk year.
ndenit.rnoe1le)aepretagen of their rcetn  popuS eioIc
-.o  u-bn StreaS public fountin or stadyItlocatdoI asNtCOME DISTRIBUTrION
iro-  lI  mcreiro   a heu.. may Ox conc-derd abenwithin re-                             ec.entage of private iooms fbeth in ca..  anh          id   eevdby richest 5
uorota  Cnex  of the   Ioa          n rural are-    ponble acces' wold                     pecnt       .ihest 20 per-ot. poonsecti  acx.ad poorest IS pare...i
Ivul  that the hou-wf  or sombera of the household do not have to                        of househol
x  Se   dlP,opnntlate  part of thede  infetchIng the family's
eater needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUIPS
ACOr.. tn encre.te disoc... I(pe--t of population) - ttotl, urban. and                    Fe.isted absolute je-rt, incma lv-I (USS pSr c-pita) - ur1ban and rural-
I No. - uber vobsil:otl   rs,an   ua)crvdb   nci                                           Abeolute poverty income levelis  hticm    ee   so    hc      ii
dlpcotal as percen tagesIf  hbeir r,epactive populatIoo..r Excrete                         nutritiemally  dadquece diet pluS .esetial n ...food r.q.r rScoiS it  a.tl
dloe  may ioclodo the   1 clvo   and d- pcal  with o   ithout                          affocdebla.
trsetcme.t. of husa. eacreta aed  weewtrby utter-borne setomas                         tE.temated relative R-vrty incom- ee  fUSprcpits -S uban end rural1
or the us  of pit pxiiViee and si.ler inatallations.                                       Scaiaperp  noelvli  that inomelee ltess then ons-thl-rd
Pouainper physician -Poutindividedby number nf practicing                              per capita p.r.onal J.oon  of the country.
PpltIonpa  nurtn  Pareo  - Populatioo divided by number of                                peecex  of Populat ion (urban and  rural) who are ei ther "acaite poor" or
Pracicig   alean  femai  graduate nurems, prentclc.  curses,. and                            M.ltiv- pour  whiah-ve  Jia grester.



-  28 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972 7                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'dTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        S                         1960-65             1965-70        1971-77
ONP at Market Prices           44,386        100.0                           1.9                 4.9            7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       8,667         19.5                           3.3                11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                           5.8                 5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,592          17.1                          1.5                7.8            10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                           0.2               10.9            18.0
OUTPUT, LA30R FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ M1n.                                                            us _  U
Agriculture                    11.624       31.1                  35.3       62.6                  329          49.7
Industry                       12,672       33.9                   4.7        8.3                2.696         407.3
Services                       13,043       35.0                  13.4       23.8                  973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                    3.0        5.3
Total/Average          ._.._
37,339                     100.0                                   ;6r         100.0
OOVERN?ENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp. Billion)        _                                     of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                            1976                 1977
Current Receipts               2,877                3,535                            18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610                2,149                            10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                1.267                1,387                             8.2                   7.3
Capital Expenditures           2,044                2,157                            13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1972          1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
Tkllion Rp  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers:)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 - 100)             807         1,028        1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                           25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7         .6.2       -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3          77.9         27.2         16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTEs  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedt' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
not available
not applicable
East Aaia & Pacific Programs
October 31, 1978



- 29  -                                    ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAD4ENTS AND CAPITAL FLOW
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCpANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975      1976      1977(Provisional)                                       US $ Mln 
(Millions US $)
Exports:                        4.738   6.183    7,592                   Oil                                  2,906       57.1
Oil (net)                     2,921   3,567    4,243                   Timber                                 605       11.9
Non oil                       1,817   2,216    3,349                  Rubber                                  461       9.1
Imports                        -5,533  -6.352   -7,489                  Palsi Oil                               117        2.3
Resource Gap                 -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                     107        2.1
Factor service:                -  462  -  646   -  828                   Coffee                                  104       2.0
Interest                     -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income            -  284  -  284   -  355                    All other coemodities                 791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8Tr   -  77=                             Total                         5, MM~   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         497      329       286                EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                2,395   2,327      1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization                -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                     2,073   1,702      1,162                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 11,391
Capital Grants                    ..       ..        ..                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            -2,250  -  205   )  474                    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              -   46  -  604   )  _
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983         736     1.197                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 I/
Gross Reserves (end year)         590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves    (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Tmports                          93      119        28
of which:  Petroleum           89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Oct. 31,  1978)(Million US S):
RATE OF EXCYANGE                                                                                               IBRD         IDA
Through  _ Aug. 1971             Sincs          -2/                 Outstanding & Disbursed                549.4        480.8
us $   A1g0  R 1971            Siane l-; 19717                  UndLabursed122.                                     15.
~~~~ ~~~~~ ~Uri 1$ 1.00   Rp 415.
Rp   1.00 = US $2.67             Rp 1$ 00 l.      Rp 415            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          22           630.8
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1000 - USS 1.60
not available
,not applicable
East Asia b Pacific Programs
October 31, 1978



ANNEX II
- 30 -                           Page 1 of 21 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1978)
USS million
Loan/                                                                Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                        Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed                                                 202.2       0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                       18.5       0.1
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                       14.5       0.2
246          1971          Seeds                                                  7.5       0.1
259          1971          Tea                                                   15.0       1.1
260          1971          Second Highway                                        34.0       0.4
289          1972          Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                      12.5       0.4
300          1972         Population                                             13.2       3.7
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                      8.5       2.0
319          1972          Fourth Agricultural Estates                           11.0       2.4
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                3.6       0.3
358          1973         North Sumatra Smallholder Development                   5.0       0.8
387          1973          Third Education                                       13.5       4.9
388          1973          Third Highway                                         14.0       0.3
399          1973         West Java Thermal Power                                46.0       5.0
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                     7.8       6.6
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                         50.0       2.2
428          1974         Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                          16.5      10.1
436          1974         Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                   10.0       1.2
451          1974          Fourth Technical Assistance                            5.0       2.4
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                          16.0      11.1
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                       6.5       2.1
514          1975         Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                         30.0      23.1
785          1978          Small Enterprise Development Project                  40.0      40.0
827          1978          Rural Credit                                          30.0      30.0
1005        1974          Railway                                     48.0                  5.0
1040        1975          Jakarta Urban Development                   25.0                  2.7
1049        1975          Five Cities Water Supply                    14.5                 10.8
1054        1975          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                             50.0                  0.1
1089        1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0                  2.3
1100        1975          Sixth Irrigation                            65.0                 50.7
1127        1975          Fourth Power                                41.0                  7.8



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 21 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                         Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
1139         1976          Fertilizer Distribution                     68.0                  1.5
1179         1976          Agricultural Research & Extension           21.5                 20.0
1197         1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0                 10.4
1236         1976          Fourth Highway                             130.0                105.2
1237         1976          Fourth Education                            37.0                 33.5
1250         1976          Second Shipping                             54.0                 49.6
1254         1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0                 17.8
1259         1976          Fifth Power                                 90.0                 77.3
1267         1976          National Food Crops Extension               22.0                 16.7
1268         1976          Seventh Irrigation                          33.0                 22.8
1318         1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0                 24.4
1336         1977          Second Urban Development                    52.5                 26.2
1337         1977          Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0                 26.4
1363         1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0                 12.8
1365         1977          Sixth Power                                116.0                 91.0
1373         1977          Nutrition Development                       13.0                 12.9
1433         1977          Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0                 18.0
1434         1977          Eighth Irrigation                           63.0                 61.4
1435         1977          Ninth Irrigation                            35.0                 31.3
1437         1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0                 27.4
1472         1977          Second Population                           24.5                 24.0
1486         1978          Non-Formal Education                        15.0                 15.0
1499         1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.0                 63.0
1513         1978          Seventh Power                              109.0                109.0
S 009        1978          Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering /b                            10.0                  10.0
1578         1978          Tenth Irrigation                           140.0                139.7
1579         1978          Eleventh Irrigation                         31.0                 31.0
1604         1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II         65.0                 65.0
Total                                                 1,772.0    630.8   1,373.0
of which has been repaid                                 8.0       0.0
Total now outstanding                                  1,764.0    630.8
Amount sold                                    27.9
.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                       1,736.1    630.8
Total undisbursed                                      1,222.6    150.4   1,373.0
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Not yet effective.



- 32-                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 21 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                          Loan      Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                 10.6       2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                     Textiles                2.5       0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles                2.0      0.5           2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia            Cable                   2.8       0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                4.5       1.5          6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel         Tourism                11.0        -          11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  5.4      0.7           6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles               2.0       0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan               Electronics             0.9       -           0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                      Devel. Fin. Co.          -       0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                2.4      0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  5.0      1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                   -       1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                0.3       -           0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                1.4      0.1          1.5
Total                                           50.8      10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             28.0       1.8         29.8
Total held by IFC                               22.8       8.7         31.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  -            -            -



-33-                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 21 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigatiom (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435,
1578 and 1579)                                                  5-7
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)        7-10
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            10-11
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    11
Education (Cr. 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                                  11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   13-14
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                14-15
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1054, 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)  15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9 /2)                                                    16
Population and Nutrition
Populatioin (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                       17
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         18
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                       18-19
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                    19
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                           20
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                        20
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                            20-21
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)                                        21
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                      21
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 21 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is almost
totally disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound
and hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The overall project is now substantially completed, about 3 years
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in
preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy rains in
the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation rates and
consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but time lost
cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving
with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher
than previous levels. The estimated project cost is more than twice the
appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. Completion of the project is expected



ANNEX II
-35 -                      Page 6 of 21 pages
by March 1979, a delay of about two years compared to appraisal estimates.
The Credit is about 96% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project
have been concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved.   Based on bid prices for the first
contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the
total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal
estimate. The project is about 20% disbursed.
Loan No. 11Cl0   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975: Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. Steps have been taken to accelerate the preparation of
these documents, and part of the time lost may yet be made up in the remaining
constructioni period. Substantial cost overruns are anticipated because of
unavoidable major changes in one project component and unit price increases in
other components. These will be verified within the next 12 months as bids
are receivecd for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976: Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary
development areas and studies being funded under the project are expected to
be completed by December 1978. The mapping program is progressing satisfac-
torily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977: Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily; it is slightly behind
schedule but time lost is expected to be made up.



- 36-                 ANNEX II
Page 7 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is ahead of schedule and progressing satisfactorily. Some
tender documents have been prepared and are expected to be let in the next year.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation Project:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A smooth start has been made on project implementation.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation Project:  US$31 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Effective Date: August 16, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on project implementation.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons or 30%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
participating in both the NES I project and the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).



37 -ANNEX II
Page 8 of 21 pages
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. Major changes in project scope and
objectives (approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977) reflected a
change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for
export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and
breeding animals. The project was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and
i8 now being implemented satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
P?rogress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on replanting
and less on rehabilitation; thus, the mix had to be changed reducing the
overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Production, however, will
not be affected since yields from replanted tea are higher than from rehabil-
itated tea. Costs will, however, exceed appraisal estimates by about 77%
since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have generally
increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in implementing the
institutional framework for long term lending, a new venture for BRI.
Because of this and difficulties in involving the private estates in the
project, dlisbursements are behind appraisal estimates. The problems are
being solved and the rate of disbursements is expected to accelerate. While
the project has experienced difficulties, it is estimated that, because of
the project-induced spin-off effects, an area at least equal in size to the
project is being improved. Over 500 farmers' groups have been formed to
improve tea production supported by a project training program involving up
to now nearly 4,000 farmers. These developments have been helped by a surge



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 21 pages
in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal estimates). Considerable investment in
factory and field development outside the project is taking place, largely
financed by short- and medium-term loans of BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs which are involved in the rehabilitation process are
both in a weak financial position and this problem requires attention. The
Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the industry
but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now estimated 18
months behind schedule. The project is about 65% disbursed. Construction of
shore facilities at Ambon is virtually completed. Boat construction is under
way and all related equipment is on site ready for installation. While the
quality of fishpond lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past,
remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the
situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind appraisal
estimates partly because of the initial delay in project effectiveness, and
because of weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 650 migrant
families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing food
crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fertiliser
supplies and poor seed supply, although half originates from construction and
rubber planting. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there has been
little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available on site
and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experience to
date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring that
agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as settle-
ment proceeds.



- 39 -           ~~ANNEX II
Page 10 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 197  Effective Date:  January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Initial progress under this project shows that it is off to an
excellent start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting
material is being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced
project staff is being assembled at the project sites.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has just become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of emp:Loyment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates. The
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) has an experienced and
capable Director and management has been strengthened by the recent appointment
of a new Director of the Project Implementation Unit. Good progress has been
made on the design of civil works, contracts have been let for all the extension
information centers, and AARD plans to let contracts for the three National
Research Centers (total cost about US$($8.0 million) before the end of 1978.
At the present projected pace of implementation all components, except fellow-
ships, could be completed by the project closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1982.
Due to late approval of the 1977-78 budget, the construction and
training programs have fallen behind schedule. It is, however, anticipated
that all civil works and procurement programs can be substantially completed
in FY79. Although excellent progress is being made with the program in the
field, Government has been urged to strengthen project supervision from
headquarters. Staff appointments are generally ahead of schedule and farmer
groups have been formed in most areas and are visited on a rgular basis by
extension personnel. Savings on the construction and procurement programs,



- 40 -            ANNEX II
Page 11 of 21 pages
and an adequate provision of local budgetary funds allowed incorporation of
another four provinces under the project in the 1978-79 Indonesian fiscal year.
Preparation of a second phase project should be completed in 1978.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock. Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 33 million books for 1978, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 380,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition
of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO and
by direct hire of consultants in publishing and paper procurement. Disburse-
ment has improved and is now 81% of the appraisal estimate as against 69% a
year ago. The Government has started a major review of the project to focus
on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook products and to overall
future needs for production of instructional materials.



ANNEX II
- 41 -                 Page 12 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The three subprojects - under the Department of Education (DOE),
Department of Manpower (DOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) -
initially suffered a ten-month delay due to slow site selection and late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust Agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical aissistance. However, progress since the initial delay has been
good for the DOE and LAN components. The DOM component is now 18 months
behind the appraisal estimate mainly because of delays in site acquisition
and development and in equipment procurement. In the last three months,
serious efforts have been made by the project unit and DOM to get this
project component on schedule: all but two sites have been acquired and
surveyed; bids for civil works at seven sites have been evaluated; access
roads and earthworks for six of these have been completed and contractors for
site works for seven more sites have been prequalified. Bids for the first
tender of equipment have been evaluated and equipment specifications for
future tenders are being finalized. The project unit has been strengthened,
a new training plan has been prepared to accelerate the training of instructors,
and the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
O0verall project implementation is on schedule. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve teacher
training and develop new curricula has been accomplished successfully; and
good progress is being made with the second phase of the educational component
and with curriculum development and training of 110 more instructors. The
technical assistance contracts have been signed and civil work contracts for
28 institutions have been awarded.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implementation progress is satisfactory.   All positions
in the project unit are filled and appointment of key staff at provincial
centers has been completed. Appointment of other technical support staff and
fieldworkers is proceeding on schedule. A technical assistance firm has been
contracted and initial advisors are in post. Rehabilitation of one of two
existing provincial centers has been completed; work at the second center is
nearing completion. Three of four sites for new provincial centers have been
acquired and construction of the centers is expected to proceed on schedule.
Initial staff training, learning materials development and evaluation activi-
ties are being carried out.



- 42 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 21 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal F_wer   US$46 Million Credit of June 22.
1973  Effective Date   August 28, 1973  ClosinpgDate;
June 30, 1980.
The project implementation was initially delayed due to the neces-
sity for making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment due to rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, the implementation is
now progressing smoothly. The first 100 MW unit will be commissioned into
service by March 1979 and will be followed by the second unit by June 1979.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power   US$41 Million Loan of June 17. 1975  Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date June 30, 1980.
The construction of the third 100 14W unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1979
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected. The loan disbursement is as per schedule envisaged in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date   September 20, 1976  Closing Dat e
March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in four lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1 valued
at US$13.6 million has been received. Orders for equipment covered by Lot 2,
amounting to US$32.4 million are now being placed. It is expected that
inquiries for Lot 3 will be issued in September 1978. The project suffered an
initial setback in procurement action by about one year but is now progressing
satisfactorily. It is expected that the loan disbursement would be completed
prior to the closing date of March 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Prolect: US$116 Million Loan of February 4. 1977;
Effective Date.  June 6  1977; Closing Date   December 31. 1982.
The implementation of the project consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang is progressing satisfactorily. The disburse-
ment of the loan on June 30, 1978 was about 73% of that estimated in the
appraisal report, but is expected to improve. Currently, estimated commis-
sioning dates for the units are about four to six months ahead of the appraisal
estimate.



- 43 -                  ANNEX II
Page 14 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power Project: US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equipment,
electrical equipment and power transformer were opened on August 21, 1978.
Preliminary indications are that the prices will be within the project cost
estimates. The Project Report for the transmission lines and substations
design has been prepared. The progress of implementation is as per schedule
so far.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer P'roduction
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The gas system has been completed and total project cost
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 ttillion Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977, about
three months ahead of schedule. Total project cost is expected to be below
the appraisal estimate.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulogadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of another
31 ha is under negotiation.  119 ha of developed land have been sold to 99
firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around 19,000 and



- 44 -                  ANNEX II
Page 15 of 21 pages
an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average in both factory construction
and land development. Overall, operations are profitable. The return on
capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is significantly higher
than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to developed land values
rising faster than the cost of raw land and development. The project's
development has been slower than forecast at appraisal and the Credit Closing
Date has been postponed until December 31, 1980.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project has been implemented satisfactorily and the loan
has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank appraisal
mission (August 1978) found that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the
Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 45 -                  ANNEX II
Page 16 of 21 pages
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport (Engineering):  US$10.0 Mil-
lion Loan of May 19, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
'The KP5BA, the group set up by the Government of Indonesia to
coordinate the preparation of the Bukit Asam Mining and Transportation
Engineering project, has negotiated contracts with MCS Consultants, a joint
venture group comprising Canadian Consulting Services Company Ltd., Montreal
Engineering Company Ltd., and Swan Wooster Engineering Company Ltd., to act
as the Project Services Contractor (PSC); with Bechtel to act as technical
advisors (TA); and with White and Case to act as legal advisors. The effec-
tiveness of the Bank loan is dependent on obtaining effectiveness of the PSC
and TA contracts. The negotiated contracts for these services now await
signature and the appropriate Government approvals. The Bank has reviewed
these contracts and has no objections to them. While technical and legal
assistance is now being provided to the KP5BA, the project is currently
running apiproximately three months behind schedule due to the time taken to
complete negotiations with MCS.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Completion of the construction program by the credit closing date
continues to cause concern. This problem has been complicated by a fire at a
half-compLeted provincial office where work has stopped. Assessment of the
Governmenit's request to use anticipated savings on additional information,
education and communication activities and in-house computer facilities are
proceeding. Both the Association and the co-financier, the UNFPA, have no
objection, in principle, to using savings for improving the computer facilities
of NFPCB. A consultant has been engaged to determine the needs for such
improvement.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1.983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979 and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well. Continued
uncertainty because of the still pending reorganization of the NFPCB has
inhibited effective management of the two research studies and the Government's
attention has been drawn to this. As of October 18, 1978, US$0.5 million
(2%) of the loan had been disbursed.



- 46 -                 ANNEX II
Page 17 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory. The Nutri-
tion Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components
as well as the fellowships program are proceeding with minor delays on the
original schedule. The rate of progress of civil works for the Food Technology
Center has been good. As of August 15, the degree of completion was as follows:
housing 18%, laboratory 13%, administrative block 13%, pilot plant 9%. About
3Z of the Nutrition Academy's laboratory is completed. The construction of
the Nutrition Research Development Center has also started. The monitoring
and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is still not established.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2  1974; Effective Date. February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1981.
BAKOSURTANAL's new building complex at Cibinong is now nearing
completion, and should be equipped and occupied in the later part of 1978,
ahead of the original schedule. Contracts have been signed for over half of
the equipment originally included in the project, including most of the
equipment required to produce maps. A loan from the Government of Canada to
the Government of Indonesia has now been signed for a parallel project which
will begin to provide mapping photography of Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Java, Bali
and the Lesser Sunda Islands in 1979. In the interim, 90% of Sumatera and 50%
of Irian Jaya and Maluku has been photographed under an Australian aid program.
Regional resource surveys have been completed in Lombok and are now underway
for the entire southern half of Sumatera and are beginning to produce informa-
tion of use for regional and project planning.



- 47.-                 ANNEX II
Page 18 of 21 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 11391  Fertilizer Distribution   US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date   June 30, 1979.
Work on the five original port depots is practically completed
and has commenced on the sixth depot which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as
an extension financed from project savings. All four ships including that
approved in 1977 have been delivered and 42 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. Akll the ships, three port depots and 26 storage depots are operat-
ing. Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be,
due to some extent to existing stocks of fertilizer disrupting the planned
distribution pattern. The matter is being taken up with Pusri and improvements
are expected.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Construction of the Sawahtambang-Muarabungo section of the Trans-
Sumatera Highway was completed and opened to traffic in mid-1976 (within the
first revised Closing Date of December 31, 1976). The bulk of consulting
services under the project were also completed by mid-1976. Only detailed
engineering for part of the Padang-Medan Highway remains to be completed for
which the Closing Date was subsequently revised to December 31, 1978; this
work was interrupted and delayed due to the Government's need to reconsider
its plans for regional, urban and port development. Quality of construction
and services were satisfactory and cost overrun was small.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction of the two North Sulawesi road sections was started
in 1974 under separate contracts. Quality of work is satisfactory but delays
and high construction costs were experienced due to mobilization problems,
adverse climatic conditions, increases in quantities and sharp escalation of
prices. Total project costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about 70%.
One road section was completed in February 1978 and the other is scheduled for
completion in November 1978 within the revised December 31, 1978 Closing Date



- 48 -                 ANNEX II
Page 19 of 21 pages
of the Credit. The project feasibility studies and detailed engineering
studies of highway betterment were satisfactorily completed and formed the
basis for the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND) and for other external
aid to the Government from ADB and bilateral agencies. The project's training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and continues to be implemented
by the Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976: Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started and the last
contracts for 44 km are about to be signed. Some problems in executing the
road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 and delays were
encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a slower rate of
progress than scheduled. The project is about 20% complete. The delays
combined with slow progress indicate that the project will probably be
completed about 15-18 months after the loan's present Closing Date.
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and technical assistance to be disbursed.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated. The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be fully
disbursed by the new closing date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and has slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The financial position of the state shipping company (PELNI) is
unsatisfactory, and further deterioration could cause financial problems for
the project entity (PANN). The Government has decided on a method of dealing
with this problem which will be discussed during the next supervision mission
in early 1979. Commitments tnder the loan were US$13.8 million in September
1978 and are expected to increase sharply during 1979. Disbursements of
US$84.4 million in September 1978 are also expected to increase sharply. The
loan is not expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date and an extension
is likely to be granted.



- 49 -                 ANNEX II
Page 20 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo by about 2.5%; about 5.6 million tons handled,
an increase of 4% over 1976. The first construction contract for Basin III
civil works and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let.
However, the land required for the Regional Harbor contract was not released
by the Army as promised and work on this contract will not start until
December 1978; container handling and other equipment is being procured on
schedule. There continues to be delays in completing the government-financed
works in Basin III; although the problems have now largely been resolved,
execution continues to be slow and completion is now scheduled for July 1979.
Work on the Bank-financed project in Basin III is continuing. Good progress
continues on revising accounting procedures and in related staff training.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974: Closing Date:
December 31. 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and all contracts have been
placed or are about to be placed. Project execution is behind schedule due
to initial slow procurement and execution of works. A deferment of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1979 will be needed. Freight and passenger traffic
declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However some improvements
were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new locomotives and
rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of consultants. The
financial performance of the railway is deteriorating due mainly to the
declining traffic in 1976 and to increasing costs including a large wage
raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being reviewed with the
railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979. The construction of the hotel training school has been completed.
The completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is
scheduled for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project
appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 31% in 1976
and by a further 8% in 1977 to 286,000 visitors. Despite considerable efforts
made by the Bali Tourism Development Board and the Bank Group in promoting



- 50 -               ANNEX II
Page 21 of 21 pages
hotel investment at Nusa Dua, no hotel investors have yet come forward. It
is therefore highly unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua could be completed
by the end of 1979 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure. However,
the Executive Directors have just approved changes in the project description
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction which
may encourage hotel investment at an earlier date.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040  Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved. About
2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are expected to
be settled by December 1978.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: 1,lay 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about
15% above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for
major civil works have been signed. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering has been completed and the establishment and development
of local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978,
the Government issued an interministerial decree defining relationships
between the various Ministries and the water enterprises. This is expected
to help expedite current and future projects in the sector.



ANNEX III
-51-                               Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:              Fifteen months
(b)  Project prepared by:                            Cipta Karya, with
consultant assistance
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:             September 1977
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:         June 18, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:             December 5, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  May 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Norne.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of subsidiary loan agrements between the Central Government
and1 each of the Project Cities (Condition of Effectiveness,
para. 51).
(b) Gorernment to ensure that:
(i) kampungs to be upgraded and design standards for kampung
improvement will not be changed without Bank approval
(para. 44).
(ii) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank are made for relocation
of families affected by the drainage improvement program in
Surabaya (para. 46);
(iii) Decrees isued by the Mayors of Surabaya, Ujung Pandang,
Semarang and Surakarta outlining the principles of KIP will be
supplemented by a directive from PUOD setting forth policies
governing KIP (para. 53);
(iv) all KIP Units will be fully staffed by April 30, 1979
(para. 56).



- 52 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v)  a separate Cleansing Department will be established in Surabaya
no later than April 1, 1979, and Jakarta and Surabaya will main-
tain solid wastes planning units in their respective Cleansing
Departments (para. 58);
(vi)  each Project City (except Jakarta) will achieve an average
annual increase of not less than 30% in IPEDA tax collections
between 1978/79 and 1983/84 (para. 65); and
(vii)  a systematic program of property valuation will be initiated
in Surabaya (para. 66).



IBRD 1384
_   _  L 080IIiIP  t  OCTOBER 1 97E
SUMATRA   (      BtITUNA         X
\".\                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~JavaT  Sea                                                                                        2                s
J    V 17    S67                                                                                              z 0                 0      0
JAVA
-y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~        ~       ~       ~         ~~~~I A
TANJUNG PR10K         IL
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
JAKARTA
MT=       KAMPUNGO IMPROVED DU:ING PEL TA D1969- 1974)
OROGOL> --R T                                                                                                                 KAMPUNGS IMPROVED OUR NG PELITA R  N11974 - 1979j
KAMPUNGS TO BE IMPROVIES DURING7 PELITA III (1179-1082)
MAIN ROADS
¶-RAILWAYS
CANALSIRIVERS
T)ISTR,CTSOUNDARIES
./ E                                           , I E                                       i N                        ,                                                  ',m-_                          -_
KILOMETERS
0      1           ~      ~      ~~~2  3
iN                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
SLKABMIJO                                                                                   i7-
IEBAYORIAN BARU                                                                          L
L            l(
S0U T H CRN                                  J






\  47 I / | \ ( \ ; t fi- 0" Nt; ? d'l i;: tr ,1 ;; d; i i {NgfattiESih AutAsTls7h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 1372
g   1ui   C   E  '  ---;'-q2XI'lj, < '10, , ,, 0'l~WO URAN DEELOP:, ": ..ME0pNGT =PxROJEC
<   i   ) 0                                                                7   (vt t                                                              2  M-~~~~~~~77- i
"I   N.                                           SURAAYAIMU
41 W ; @ ,, _ J CR~~~~~~~~~~-EC~AA-MGL,  0.  MADURA  SiRA  i
Z ~~~~SURABAYA SELATAN- .'   f d
~1    KEC. FKARANGP LAt IG                                                      t   9         v  
|, ! #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K-= =O                                                                        K.3= hERWA-Vz ..
oISA W; f   fr . I hrhrSaEvedW g.unwonoe  05S   IE-  EI .  =E,<,






IBRD 13803
12 0                        SEPTEMBER  1978
4sc   2  jSULAWESI
Cu~~~~~KC
Uisaeg / 
t120                                       125'
KEC.  UNG                ANE G                                                                                                                                       m  INDONESIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
UJUNG PANDANG
Kampungs to be improved  during  Pelita Ill
(1 979 - 1 980)
2   <   L    I  1L KEC. MX  dAJ9FNG}    }                                                                                 /           Kampungs to be improved during  Pelita Ill
(1980 - 1981)
Kampungs to be improved during  Pelita Ill
(1 98] - 1 982)
,      ,/  L/ Roads
----  1J   i //    - Rivers, Channels
- - - - - f- - -    District boundaries
9      190       200      300       490       500
0             590                         ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~1000  Thron-poh- bess rparp...d by ths W-nd Bank's staff -1ulsr-eY for 'h.'nnc
°  Orf th. -d-f th.eport so whruh,t  a attached The den-nsnato- usend and the
o_dar  sho  on th rep do not rpiy, on the prt of th Wrld Bkank ndto
iilts, any judgmet on the 1.50s~- f sttu Yat t-rteYor anY -ndorsemet or
a-optan-  f -sh b-uda-,e.






IBRD 13687
id,-                            JAV. ti 4           11211                                                                                                                                    ALGUST 197
JAVA. SEA
JAYA                         SURABATAS 
W06               SA - _CfkN
iAIDIAN OCAN                                                                                                                                                       /\\
J A V A  S E A
KEC UTARA
>   {  1  ^.7re . ~~1                                                                                                                                                                                 0
.~KECT   A
KEC BARAT            f .
KEC SELATAN  
K                                                                                            I                    POR
iN                 -i'Kpg T                    UB   D                    O               PROJECT
2                        ~~~~~~~~~~~INDOESI
X ,) KAMPUNG ~~IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
(t    ,*                rJ~A                                             SEMARNG
iil: ..... / .'X'"    KoUpragoTo Be Ioproved DVrN Pei,r 1(1979-1980)
.8                                        m      K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orpoogs To Be Impooveo Dour~ nge io lII  1980-1 9S 1
in,5 'eap Ose 0..,,~ ~~~~~~~~~ 00 _oo                             _l                                               Korpogs ToAelroprooedDurooePeooll (1981-1982)
f        e   - rd-    he. r a m h i ,t t tach.d The -e-o, -ahone S2ed t4 the                                                                         2           3          4                       6
,ff,A&,s. aoyo,Agomor lo, the wg.ltwtr,e Of COY t0 tony  soZotyrramdsonmeot.1or  a                                                                         KILOMETERS






[BRD 13688
AlCI 91 978
K  v,                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
r                                  ~                                 THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
N/  s tr   J                       ~~                       ~    SURAKARTA
//      ,c-'1       l                                                             92,,  v .  
/r                                                                                                              N -=            I                 
~~~-                                     !                                       K  <         
I                ~~~~~~KEC LAWEYAk      ';0*                 , *XCtEtJRSR    ew                                                                                                       /
A\ ,  ,  ,.';ii1
/ \t  =  h  30  '  ! = t d n 9g ~~~~~~~ 5 0~~=r 0 8i L | KEC. J EE R ES ,,,,)KEC JEBRE
\~~~~~~~~~4 3t Fe i      S    1                          ',                                                                                                               sc.    ; / s  >>      omepL 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
Jr      I,R r,
in,                  4-
srrstses o ¢rch Nmd    \i -+d - K  s 3 TS  K1-                                                                RcAr                                  8                                    I
0   E d A 5  g                                )  r nee eXd-t  =            r d r                                                               At LES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'E
go~~~~~~~~                   <                                      -  _  ;IRPT  9~                            ,     
a035 lqgP 11|04 I1Z t r 8 KIL_METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KL-ETR



