Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10666
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2263-PO)
MAY 29, 1992
4~~~~~(
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Maghreb Department
EMENA Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I Conto - 1,000 Escudos
Year                           Escudos per US Dollars
1981                                    61.54
1982                                    79.5
1983                                   110.8
1984                                   146.4
1985                                   170.4
1986                                   149.6
1987                                   140.9
1988                                   143.9
ACRONYMS .ND ABBREVIATIONS
BPN            Banco de Fomento Nacional
BESCL          Banco Espirito Santo e Comercio Lisboa
BPA            Banco Portugues de Atlantica
BPSM           Banco Pinto e Sotto Mayor
BTA            Banco Totta e Acores
CGD            Caiza Geral de Depositos
EEC            European Economic Community
EIB            European Investment Bank
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
TAPMEI         Institute for Support of Small and Medium Industrial Enterprises
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LNETI          National Laboratory of Engineering and Industrial Technology
PCR            Project Completion Report
PBI            Participating Banking Institution
PEDIP          Development Programme for Portuguese Industry
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIBR           Systems of Incentives on a Regional Basis
SMI            Small and Medium-Scale Industry
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OMCaUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DifectoG.eneraI
Opet tinhs Evaluatkm
May 29, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Portugal
Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project
(Loan 2263-PO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Portugal - Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry
Development Project (Loan 2263-PO)" prepared by the Industry and Energy Division,
Country Department II of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                                2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT C(OMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2263-PO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
Preface  .        ........................................................
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                             i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Background  . .            ...................................................
Project Design and Organization  .................................                               2
Project Objectives  and Description  ..............................                              2
Project Implementa-ion Experience  ...............................                               3
Project Results  .................................................                               7
Borrower Performance  ............................................                               9
Bank Performance  ................................................                               9
Project Documentation and Data  ..................................                             10
Sustainability  ..................................................                             10
Conclusions and Lessons  Learned  .................................                             10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction  ....................................................                              13
Eligibility Criteria  ............................................                             13
Promotion and Divulgation Actions  of the Credit Line  ....                       ........     15
Evolution of the Credit Line During the Utilization Period                          ......     16
Final Position of the SMI-2 Credit Line  .........................                             21
Conclusions ................... ......,.   24
Annexes ..... . . .. .. 27
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Statistical  Information  .........................................                            39
Status of Covenants .                                                                          40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori-ation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2263-PO)
PREFACZ
The Bank approved Loan 2263-PO to Portugal on April 19, 1983 for
US$ 40.3 million in support of the Second Small and Medium Scale Industry
Development Project. The Loan closed on March 31, 1989. Of the original loan
amount, US$ 30.6 million was disbursed and US$ 9.7 million was cancelled.
The Industry and Energy Division , Country Department II, of the
World Bank' Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (EM2IE)
prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of this report.
IAPMEI, the project implementing agency of the Borrower prepared Part II.
Parts I and III of the PCR are based on a draft PCR prepared by a
consultant for Industry and Energy Division for Country Department IV, EMENA
Region, which previously had responsibility for the industrial sector in
Portugal. EM2IE, which currently covers industry in Portugal revised and
supplemented the draft PCR with information from the Staff Appraisal Report
and supervision reports. The preparation of the final report was constrained
significantly by the change in divisional responsibility for Portugal,
incomplete Bank supervision reports and missing Bank files.



- iii -
PRO IECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMAL'. AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2263-PO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Backaround
1.          Portugal's industrial sector was in transformation at the time of
Project appraisal in 1983, as the country's economy moved towards joining the
European Economiec Community in 1986. Small and medium scale industries had
played a major role in Portugal's economic development  but had lost _.-
the export dynamism they had exhibited in the 1970s. There were high
expectations for export potential with EEC accession, but there were also a
number of problems to resolve: low productivity, the scope for a changed
output structure, the need for industrial consolidation, weak financial
structures, etc. Furthermore, price controls and industrial sector policies
fostered reliance on protection and subsidies. The Bank's first SMI project
in Portugal 1979 had been successful in modernizing SMIs and expanting
commercial Bank financing. SSI-2 was designed to build on the success of SMI-
I by continuing credit line funding for SMIs and promoting institutional
improvements in the subproject prepdration and appraisal process.
Prolect Obiectives
2.          The SMI-2 project had several objectives.  The first was to
support, through a program of financial and technical assistance combined with
an incentive policy dialogue, the investment and rehabilitation programs of
Portuguese SMIs to improve their efficiency and diversify their product
structure, in preparation for Portugal's accession to the EEC. Second, it was
to ensure the long-term viability of existing employment in SMIs and create
new ones at a moderate capital cost per job. Finally, it was to continue the
process of strengthening the appraisal and support capacities of financial and
technical assistance institutions serving SMIs. Paras. 6 thru 9 give a
description of the Project.
Proiect Implementation and Resuits
3.          By September 1986, the date designated in the Loan Agreement
designated for commitment of the credit line, the total amount of the loan had
been committed and around 50% of it had been disbursed. After tnis period,
however, there was a significant number of subproject cancellations. The



- iv -
prnject implementation profile is found in para. 14. The major reason for the
rise .rn cancellations after 1985 wastTie-Aik-l-abi1ity of other sources of
funds for SMI lending (para. 15).  Of .tbe360 subprojects financed, rhere were
77 new enterprises and 283 expansions and modernizations of existing SMIs. In
tile l1rter-category there were 33 investments in.qiuality improvements.
Reportedly, 3,590 new jobs were associated with the Project. The total
investment in all the subprojects was 9,549,421 Contos (US$60.6 million),
4,655,996 (US$30 million) of which (45%) the Bank funded through the SMI-2
loan. Paras. 22 thru 25 provide further details on the Projact's results.
Prolect Sustainabiliv
4.          The Project helped to modernize the SMI sector and create
employment in excess of that estimated in the SAR. Also it helped expand
financing from the resources of the participating banking institutions (PBIs)
along with equity from enterprises. In 1986 Portugal became a member of the
Common Market and there are no plans for any further Bank loans for the
development of the SMI sector. The Project achieved its main objectives and
Portugal should be able to sustain future SMI investment on its own or
through other available financing sources.
Main Conclusions and Lessons Leamed
5.          It is difficult to fully assess the success of this project due to
the lack of information on the performance of the subprojects financed
(para. 16). However, the bank loan did help finance more than double the
number of subprojects originally envisaged in the SAR and exceeded the
targets for employment creation. However, the project was less successful in
convincing IAPMEI to maintain the desired level of consulting services,
monitor the subprojects sufficiently and provide economic evaluation reports
on the subprojects financed. The main lesson to learn from this project is
the potentidl impact that changes in the external financing environment
combined with institutional changes can have on project performance and the
importance of maintaining continuous supervision despite changes of staff. It
is also important to increase supervision intensity when the Borrower does not
fulfill important loan covenants that could affect the outcome and the
evaluation of the Project (para. 31).    The  Bank recognized the need for
closer supervision, garly on in the Project, as discussed in para. 16, but
apparently did not do the necessary follow-up work to achieve it!
Furthermore, it may have been more effective to make the loan directly to the
participating banks instead of making IAPMEI the main project implementing
agency (para. 36).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2263-PO)
PART 1. PROJEC1' REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Frojecc Same:  Second Small and Medium bcale inauscry Developmenc
Loan Number:   2263-PO
RVP Unit:      EMENA
Country:       Po...ugal
Sector:        Industry
Subsector:     Small and Medium-Scale Industry
BACKGROUND
At the time of Project appraisal (1983), the industrial sector in
Portugal was in transformation, as the economv moved toward accession to the
European Economic Community (EEC).  The small and medium-scale industry (SMI)
subsector played an important role in Portugal's economy, accounting for 30% of
GDP, 35% of emplovment, 40% of capital formation and 90% of merchandise exports.
However, tne subsector had lost some of the export dynamism it had experienced
in the late 197(Js. There were high expectations for export potential with EEC
accession,  but  there  were  also  a number  of  problems  to  resolve:    low
productivity, the scope for a changed output structure, the need for industrial
consolidation, weak financial structures, etc. Furthermore, price controls and
industrial sector policies fostered reliance on pro:ection and subsidies.
2.          SMIs in Portugal spanned a variety of industrial subsectors.  The
definition of SMIs at the time of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) referred to
those industries employing less than 400 workers, with annual sales not exceeding
ESC 250 million (US$ 3 million).  There were about 15,000 SMIs at the time of
Project appraisal, representing some 68 % of all manufacturing encerprises in
the economv. SMIs also accounted for 60% of manufacturing emplovment and 48%
of all fixed capital formation. The SMI subsector played a major role in exports
and the comparative advantage of this sector in the export market was mainly low
labor cost and an acceptable level of quality.  In view of planned accession to
the EEC, there was an urgent need to raise the technological and managerial
efficiency of the SMIs.
3.          The Bank's first S4I Project in Portugal (Loan 1/01-PO), approved
in 1979, concentrated on those SMIs with less than 100 employees and emphasized
export orientation and emplovment creation.   The Bank made a loan of US$ 45
million for this project.  Of this total, US$33 million was allocated for SMI
credit lines and the remainder was for smaller components consisting of US$9.5
million for industrial estate development and US$1.85 million for technical
assistance and studies.   The Bank and the Borrower,  the Banco de Portugal,
prepared the Project Completion Report (PCR) for this Project in 1985, about two
years after appraisal of the s3cond SMI project. The PCR for SKI-I noted that
the Project essentially was successful in meeting its objectives for SMI
development, including the institutional strengthening of IAPMEI and the



-2-
participating baniking institutions (PBI). However, it fell short, considerably,
in meeting its objectives for developing the industrial estates in less developed
regions and in export promotion. This loan closed in September 1984.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.           The Project Completion Report (PCR) for SMI-1 project was under
preparation during the design of SMI-2. One of the PCR's findings was that the
credit component was successful in helping to modernize the SMI sector in
Portugal, but that other smaller components had been less effectlve. Tt also
noted  the need  for  institutional  strengthening  of  IAPMEI,  '...   .n SMI
development agency. Therefore, SMI-2 focussed on credit lines for SMIs .Mproving
the services of IAPMEI in support of subproject preparation and appraisal.
5.          The team preparing the Staff Appraisal Report set the loan amount
for SMI-2 at US$40.3 million based on the assessment of the likely foreign
exchange needs of the number of bankable SMI projects estimated to emerge from
the promotional efforts to IAPMEI, and the PBIs themselves taking into account
the investment climate in Portugal as envisaged at that time. The loan amount
was to cover four years. The SMI-2 loan complemented loan 1942-PO to the Banco
de Fomento Nacional (BFN) for US$100 million, approved by the World Bank in
January 1981, for financing larger-scale industries in the country.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
6.          The focus of SMI-2 was on helping SMIs in Portugal to expand their
contribution to the industrial development of the country, improve the efficiency
of their operations and assist in creating and maintaining employment.  A special
concern of the project was to help modernize the SMI subsector and improve its
competitive advantage in preparation for Portugal's accession to the EEC, which
took place on January 1, 1986.
7.          The specific objectives of the SMI-2 project were to:
(a) support, through a program of financial and technical assistance
combined with an incentive policy dialogue, the investment and
rehabilitation programs of Portuguese SMIs to improve their
efficiency and diversify their product structure, in preparation
for Portugal's accession to the EEC;
(b) ensure the long-term viability of existing employment in SMIs
and create new ones ar a moderate capital cost per job; and
(c) continue to strengthen the appraisal and support capacities of
financial and technical assistance institutions serving SMIs.
8.          The objectives were consistent with the industrial strategy which
the Portuguese Government had adopted, and the World Bank had supported. - The



-3-
Project was to meet the above objectives , fi:-st of all, bv providing a credit
line of L'S$40 million, to be channeiled througn Portugal's banking svstem and
IAPMEI for financing el'gible SMI investment projects.  Such projects included
building construction, the purchase of goods and services for creating new SMI
enterprises, or the modernization, expansion, quality control and energy
conservation improvements in existing enterprises.  In order to simplify access
to the loan proceeds and the processing of subprojects, Bank approval was
required only for those subprojects with an investment cost exceeding the "free
limit" of 43 million escudos (US$485,000) while IAPMEI was to arprove all those
under that limit. SMI-2 also was to suppozt the ongoing tezhnical assistance
activities of IAPMEI for SMIs and continue, with the Government, a policy
dialogue to improve the investment incentive system, especially for industrial
restructuring.
9.          Followitng the administration framework of SMI-1, a spz ial unit in
the Central Bank, Banco de Portugal. was to administer the line of credit with
IAPMEI (the Institute for Support of Small and Medium-Scale Industries) which
was in charge of promoting and processing the appraisal reports of the
subprojects for submission co the lending institutions. It also was responsible
for the quality of the subprojects financed, together with the onlending banks
that took the risks on the subloans. Although there were no funds included in
the Project Loan for financing IAPMEI's technical assistance to the PBIs, the
loan agreement under the Project provided for IAPMEI to continue to offer
technical assistance in an  ffective manner to those SKIs that revuested its
services. Furthermore, there were agreements during loan negotiations that IAPMEI
would maintain its programme of specialized consulting services to SMI
enterprises, at least at the 1983 level, for the disbursement period of the
credit line. To finance this programme, IAPMEI would allocate the equivalent
of its available income from its spread on the SMI lines of credit (1.50%) and
of its fees obtained for its services from SMI clients. There was also agreement
that, if necessary, IAPMEI would reallocate some budgetary resources for this
purpose. IAPMEI and the Bank would review IAPMEI's annual work programme over
the period of credit line disbursement, the first such review to take place bv
the end of 1983. However, there is no apparent record that such annual reviews
took place during the implementation of the project.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
10.         Macroeconomic Framework.  in the early Project years, there was a
period of stabilization in the country's economy and adherence to restrictive
financial policies based on an agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
These policies included a credit squeeze and interest rates which were fixed
administratively. As a result of these restrictive policies, domestic demand
fell by 7% in 1983 and 6.2% in 1984; investment in industry fell by 12.2% and
6.8% respectively in these years.   Exports, however, increased during these
years,  partly compensating for the decline  in domestic demand.   In 1984,
unemployment rose to 10.8% and inflation soared to 29.3%.   Domestic demand
started to pick up in 1985 and inflation in that year dropped in 19.5%.  In
January 1984, Portugal joined the EEC. Strong expectations for growth generated



a surge in industrial development as -ell as a significant drop in inflation to
9.4% in 1987.  Also in that year, the unemployment rate dropped to 7.9%.  By
1989, Portugal's eccnomic growth (5% in real terms) was higher than that of other
EEC wembers. Exports were performing well but inflation persisted at a high rate
of 12.6%.
11.         Since Portugal's accession to EEC, the councry has benefited from
a variety of special funding arrangements on very favorable terms both for the
country and for individual beneficiaries.   Among these were two principal
programs:    (a) PEDIP,  a  programme  of  capital  grants  to  strengthen  the
technological and productive base c'- selected industries and to stimulate
innovation, modernization, quality 1wrrovement and competitiveness in the
recipient industrial firms; and (b) SIBR, a system of incentive cvsntr and loans
given to erhance the development of firms in less developed regicius of the
country.   Since 1988, IAPMEI, the BFN (Banco de Fomento Nacional) and other
similar entities have been promoting PEDIP and SIBR and have accordingly shown
less interest in lines of credit offered by donors such as the World Bank.
12.         Commitments  and  Disbursements.    By  September  30,  1984,  177
subprojects had received approval for an amount of over 2.17 million Contos
(US$15 million) and there were disbursements on 14 subprojects amounting to
336,000 Contos (US$2.3 million).   Commitments and disbursements moved rapidly
in the years 1984-86 as shown in Table 1 below:
Table 1: COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
(1984-1986)
-----------Commitments -----------    ------Disbursements--------
No. of Sub-          Amount            No. of Sub-         Amount
Year        projects       (Contos)        US$      projects      Contos        US$
--   millions ------- -millions
1 (9/30/84)      177        2.17          15.2           14         0.34      0.233
2 (9/30/85)      301        3.48          24.4          112         1.60       11.0
3 (9/30/86)     409         6.17          41.3          200         3.03       21.2
13.         By September 1986,  the date the Loan Agreement designated for
commitmeit of the credit line, the total amount of the loan had been committed
and around 50% of it had been disbursed. After this period, however, there was
a  significant  number  of  suoproject  cancellations.    The  final  number  of
subprojecti was 360 when the loan was closed on March 31, 1989 and the amount
disbursed was US$30.0 million.  The remainder of the credit line--US$9.7 million-
-was cancelled.



14.         Suboroject cancellations.   The levei of subproieot cancellations
was high in the impiementation of this project compared to SMI-1 and similar
projects  in  other  countries.        Ultimately,   there  were  124 subproject
can,-sllations, about 34X of those which were originally approved by the
participating banks. The cancellations involved subprojects in che amount of
2,077,077 Contos, or around US$13.5 million equivalent, about one-third of the
amount of the Banik loan.  However, the proportion of the original loan amount
actually cancelled was somewhat lower- -about one quarter- -because there were some
new projects to offset earlier cancellations.   The level of cancellations
increased as project implementation progressed as shown in the following Table 2:
Table 2: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(1984-1987)
Year                     No. of Subprojects              No. of Subprojects
approved                    cancellations
1. (9/30/84)                       177                             17
2. (9/30/85)                       301                             46
3. (9/30/86)                       4C9                             75
4. (9/30/87)                       378                            106
Final                              360                            124
15.         It is noteworthy  that  the  figures  in Table  2 refer only  to
cancellation of complete subprojects. There was also some partial cancellation
of subprojects. The major reason for the rise in cancellations after 1985 was
the availability of other sources of funds. The PEDIP programme, mentioned in
para. 11, funded by the EEC, began in 1985 and the SIBR programme in 1987. The
first loan of the European Investment Bank (EIB) for SMIs became effective in
1985 and offered loans at lower interest rates so that some borrowers switched
their applications to this credit line. An additional reason for cancellations
was the failure of the borrowers to furnish the required documents related to
the investment within the time specified in the loan agreement.
16.         Sub2roiect Review Process.   In January 1985, the Bank prepared a
supervision report which attempted to improve the review system for subprojects
based on agreements during the negotiations for SMI-2. This system, in practice,
did not prove satisfactory. During negotiations, there was agreement that every
six months, the Bank would select six subprojects not approved by the PBIs, from
a short list which IAPMEI would prepare. The supervision mission would review
these subprojects in the field, with IAPMEI, the PBIs and the enterprises.
Finally, IAPMEI would translate the PBI appraisal reports into English and send
them to the Bank for review. For all other subprojects, IAPHEI would send to
the Bank only summary review notes in English. The main objective of this system
was to increase the Bank's involvement in the PBI appraisal but simplify the



- 6 -
review process. This "ex ante" system failed to work well, however, due to the
large number of subproject cancellations, the slow processing of the PBIs and
the fact that there were not many large (Type A) projects.   For example, the
1985 supervision report cites that out of 24 projects visited during the
supervision missions, the Bank received appraisal reports for only three
subprojects. Furthermore, the Bank noted the uneven quality of subprojects and
the PBI appraisal reports, particularly in the areas of organization and
technical assistance.   The report further pointed to the need for continued
active involvement 5i the subproject review process.
17.         As an alternative review system,  IAPMEI proposed an "ex post"
subproject review, whereby every six months, the Bank would select six
subprojects approved by the Bank and IAPMEI durirg the previous six-month period.
IAPMEI then would translate the appraisal reports for these projects into English
and submit them to the Bank within two months of subproject selection. During
supervision, the missions would review all or some of these projects. Further,
as under SMI-1, IAPMEI would continue to submit , to the Bank, for large
subprojects, requiring Bank approval, the PBI appraisal reports in Portuguese,
IAPMEI's review notes in English and new subproject data forms.   For other
subprojects, IAPMEI would submit only the new subproject data forms in lieu of
less comprehensive summary review notes. The Bank agreed to this system but,
in practice, it did not work because of TAPMEI's staff constraints in translating
reports and extremely long delays in submitting the reports to the Bank.
18.         PBI Performance.  Two banks, the Banco Portugues de Atlantica (BPA)
and the Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD) together accounted for more than half the
SMI loan utilization compared to about 431 under the SMI-I loan.  Two other
banks, Banco Pinto y Sotto Major (BPSM) and Banco Totta e Acores (BTA), each
accounted for about 11 of the total. The Banco Espirito Santo e Commercio,
Lisboa (BESCL), which ha' onlent about 14X of the first loan, only accounted for
6s of onlending under SMI-2.
19.         A breakdown of subproject cancellat'.ons shows the varying rate of
subproject cancellations among the PBIs. For example, BPA had organized itself
better to handle SMI borrowers and was able to deal better with their problems
as they later arose; thus its cancellations amounted to 21X of subprojects, a
lower rate than the general average. On the other hand, the cancellation rate
of CGD, which had a worse financial portfolio and repayment problems, was about
half of its approved subprojects.
20.         Arrears and Defaults.   According to IAPMEI,  the major PBIs had
arrears problems in about 101 of the loans made, except in the case of CGD, where
the arrears proportion reached higher levels in 1985/86, but subsequently dropped
closer to the general level.
21.         Credit Cgiling.  It is apparent that the decision of the Banco de
Portugal to allow onlending of the subloans through the World Bank line of credit
outside the credit ceilings of the PBIs was a major incentive in their use of
the Bank loan. In several cases, the PBIs used the World Bank credit line only
after they had fully utilized their own funds to the permitted limits. Although



-7-
the margin given to the banks was considered adequate, these institutions
switched to using other lines of credit because the final cost for the borrower
was lower and obtaining these funds required less documentation and restricting
their use.   IAPMEI and the Banco de Portugal tried to encourage the use of
committed funds but had only limited success in this respect.
PROJECT RESULTS
22.         Overview.   Of the 360 subprojects financed,  there were 77 new
enterprises and 283 expansions and modernizations of existing SMIs.   In the
latter category, there were 33 investments in quality improvements. Reportedly,
3,590 new jobs were associated with the Project.  The total investment in all
the subprojects was 9,549,421 Contos (US$60.6 million), of which the Bank funded
4,655,996 (US$30 million) (45%) through the SMI-2 loan. The average investment
cost per job was around 2,660 Contos or US$18,600. This compares well with the
limit of 4,300 Contos (US$34,000) specified in the SAR. According to IAPMEI's
reports, 266 out of the 360 subprojects created some new employment. Most of
the projects (348) were in the smaller investment category as specified in the
Loan Agreement.
23.         Subsector Allocation.   On a subsector basis, the metal/mechanics
industry had the single largest investment share of the various subsectors with
112 projects financed, accounting for 31% of subprojects and about 27% of
investment.   For some of the other subsectors, the respective subproject and
investment shares were: textile and garments (19.4% and 4.4%), chemical and
plastics (12.5% and 10.6%), non-metallic minerals--mainly marble (10.6% and
10.4%), shoe and leather (5.5% and 7.5%) and wood, cork and furniture (6.7% and
7.4%).   Surprisingly, the shares for food processing--a major sector for SMI-
-, were only 6.1% and 5.5%, respectively.
24.         Regional Allocation.  IAPHEI divides the country into three regions -
the North centered on Oporto, the Central region centered on Coimbra and the
South with Lisbon as the center.  There were 159 subprojects financed in the
North, 93 in the Center and 108 in the South.  Only two banks, BPA and BPSM
operated in the Central region. Significantly, seven of the larger subprojects
were in the North, three in the center and only two in the south.
25.         Economic and Financial Analysis.  Early in the implementation period
for SSI II, the Bank recommended that IAPMEI concentrate more on preparing
diagnostic studies of projects already completed.  For the preparation of the
PCR on SSI I, which occurred well into the implementation of SSI II, IAPMEI
provided information on the financial performance of projects under SSI I.
However, there seems to be a lack of information on the financial performance
of subprojects under SSI II. This may be due to the fact that IAPMEI had only
just furnished such information for SSI I and that the attention of both the
Bank and IAPMEI waned as the project drew to a close.



-8-
Institutional Impact
26.         Particirating Banks.  Both SMI-1 and SMI-2 played an important role
in expanding commercial bank lending to SMIs and in some case improved their
subproject appraisal capacity. However, Bank supervision reports for SMI-2 found
unevenness in the quality of subproject appraisals.  A particular weak point,
in some cases, was the analysis of technical management and marketing aspects.
There is evidence that subproject appraisal capacity in the main participating
bank was of good quality. Moreover, at least two commercial banks, BPSM and BTA,
increased their professional staff engaged in project appraisal and expanded
their participation in the loan. The quality of the appraisal reports from CGD
subprojects, one of the major lenders, seemed to be generally lower than that
of those from the other banks.
27.         During the implementation of SMI-2, the PBIs relied less on IAPMEI
for assistance in appraisal than under SMI-l.  CGD, one of the two major PBIs
in both SMI-l and SMI-2, seems to have had increasing problems with the
borrowers.  Originally, CGD committed 1,172,595 Contos for 69 'subprojects, a
substantially lower number of subprojects that under SMI-l (82). Also, CGD had
the highest number of cancellations--30 subprojects, amounting to more than one
third the value of all subproject cancellations. During SMI-1, and in the early
stages of SMI-2, CGD experienced high arrears in its loan portfolios and was
accordingly much more cautious in its lending and more likely to be motivated
to improve its capacity for project appraisal and loan supervision.
28.         IAPMEI.  The main promotional agency for SMIs in Portugal, IAPMEI,
experienced some major changes during the implementation of SMI-2.  There was
a substantial organizational upheaval in 1988/89, following Government policy
to cut the personnel on the public payroll. The Government had decided to make
IAPMEI an independent agency whose staff no longer would be Government employees.
A significant number of professional staff opposed this change in their status
and subsequently left, mainly for other government employment. In all, about
70 staff left, mostly those who had been with the agency from its early days.
IAPMEI since then has tried to replace most of the btaff but generally has had
to accept less qualified and less experienced professionals.   Staff morale
continues to be low since those who remain have not felt that the small
improvement in direct salaries sufficiently outweighs the lost security and other
benefits of government employment.
29.         There have been other substantial changes within IAPMEI as well.
The institution is now under the control of a Board of Directors with
representatives of three government ministries and six representatives from
industry, finance and commerce. The management of the agency is under a newly
appointed President and supported by directors--three of whom are new
appointments, having come from the banking, industrial and commercial sectors.
Also, under the new organization, IAPMEI is much more decentralized with three
regional centers--North (Oporto), Central (Coimbre) and South (Lisbon), under
which there are ten branches--three in the North, four in Center and three in
South. The operational staff, those who deal directly with SMI clients seeking
finance, training or technical aid, are now all in the branches.



30.         IAPMEI has received the major responsibility for coordinating the
incentive programmes, PEDIP and SBIR (para. 11). This additional responsibility
has absorbed considerable staff resources, which were already constrained, as
noted in para. 28.  There has been some reduction in training and technical
assistance and this action appears due to lack of staff and budgetary resources
rather than any clear policy decision to reduce these activities in the
organization. IAPMEI's budget is now closely linked to the income it ge.-erates
from its activities and it receives commissions from the evaluation and
processing of the loan and grants under the various donor programmes.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.         The Government implementing agency for the SMI-2 project was IAPMEI.
In the period 1983-85, IAPMEI's performance in promoting use of the SMI-2 loan
was satisfactory, but after 1985, the agency was under pressure to use other
donor resources and consequently gave less attention to promotion of the World
Bank credit line. IAPMEI was not able to prevent the large-scale cancellation
of subprojects that took place after 1985 or convince PBIs to find new
subprojects to replace those cancelled.  IAPMEI also did not completely fulfill
its obligation, under the Loan Agreement, to continue providing technical
assistance to its clients and monitor subprojects at least at the levels of 1983.
On the other hand, IAPMEI was involved in important initiatives to set up, in
collaboration with sectoral associations, at least four technological centers
for industries in the areas of metal, plastic, wood/furniture, textiles,
clothing, glass and ceramics. These centers have received partial financing from
LNETI, the National Laboratory of Engineering and Industrial Technology, and have
assisted the various sectors in product development and the resolution of related
technological problems. Furthermore, under SMI-2, IAPHEI tried to use outside
consulting services to complement its own staff resources and did in fact do so
during 1984/85, in preparing feasibility studies for clients. However during
1986, the use of such consulting services declined. Perhaps the most unfortunate
aspect of IAPMEI's performance was its lack of adequate monitoring or follow-
up on the performance of SMI who received subloans under the project. It appears
that management changes and staff problems, before, during and after the major
reorganization, may have affected IAPHEI's performance in exercising its
technical assistance and the subproject monitoring and evaluation functions.
BANK PERFORMANCE
32.         The main comment on Bank performance is the eipparent small amount
of time spent on supervising this project.   The Bank usually supervised the
Project in conjunction with other projects in Portugal and data indicate only
35 staffweeks of supervision compared to about 77 staffweeks for the Second Loan
to the Banco de Fomento Nacional (Loan 1942-POR).  The apparent low level of
supervision effort is evident in the limited supervision reports and other
project documentation available  (para. 33).   The  lack of more continuous,
intensive supervision seems due, inter alia, to the major reorganization of the
Bank which took place in 1987, the decline of PBI's interest in the credit line



- 10 -
and the fact that after joining the EEC in 1986, Portugal had begun to receive
assistance in SMI development from elsewhere, and was on its way to graduating
from the Bank's lending program.
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
33.         The information and documentation available for the preparation of
this PCR was extremely limited. This is certainly due, at least in part, to the
major institutional reorganizations which took place both within the Bank and
IAPHEI. During the large-scale Bank reorganization in 1987, there apparently
was a break in the continuity of the supervision process on the Bank side and
the major institutional changes and problems IAPMEI experienced during 1986-
1988 most probably contributed to its less than adequate performance in
subproject monitoring and evaluation.   Although there apparently were seven
missions during 1983-88 which supervised SMI-2 along with other projects, there
are only three supervision mission reports on file for SMI-2--December 1983,
January 1985 and November 1988. Furthermore, an entire volume of the Project
files is missing. There was also discontinuity in the preparation of this PCR.
Most of the PCR is based on a draft prepared by a consultant who had been
associated with the Project during its early stages.   After the consultant
prepared the draft (1990), the processing of the PCR was slowed down by a change
in departmental responsibility, within the Bank, for operations in Portugal.
SUSTAINABIU
34.         The Project helped to modernize the SMI sector and create employment
in excess of that estimated in the SAR (para. 35). Also it apparently helped
generate finance for SMIs from the PBIs' own resources along with equity from
enterprises. In 1986 Portugal became a member of the Common Market and there
are no plans for any further Bank loans for the development of the SMI sector.
The Project achieved its main objectives and Portugal should be able to sustain
future SMI investment, on its own or through a variety of other funding sources.
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
35.         It is difficult to assess the success of this project fully due to
the lack of information on the performance of the subprojects financed
(para. 31). However, the bank loan did help finance 360 projects, more than
double the number originally envisaged in the SAR (between 100 and 150
subprojects). Furthermore, subprojects were expected to create from 1,900 to
2,600 jobs but they actually created 3,590 jobs according to the reports.
36.         The main lesson to learn from this project is the potential impact
that changes in the external financing environment, combined with institutional
changes on the borrower or the lender side, can have on project performance and
the importance of maintaining crntlnuous supervision despite organizational
changes. It is also important to increase supervision intensity and action when



X 11 -
the Borrower does not fulfill important loan covenants that could affect the
outcome and the evaluation of the Project (para. 31). The availability of other
forms of financing combined with the organizational changes in the Bank and
IAPMEI diverted interest away from the Project and ultimately led to the
underutilization of the loan and cancellation of 24% of the original loan amount.
Enhanced project supervision may have helped to heighten interest in the credit
line and motivate the implementing agency to fulfill its obligations to monitor
and prepare a more thorough evaluation of subprojects. The Bank recognized the
need for closer supervision, early on in the Project, as discussed in para. 16,
but apparently did not do the necessary follow-up work to achieve it.
Furthermore, in the design of the project, it is questionable whether IAPMEI was
the appropriate implementing agency for the project given its specialized nature
and staff constraints. It probably would have been more effictive to mak4 the
loan directly to a group of participating banks as the Bank has done in several
cases since this project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
SECONO SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2263-PO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM-BQRROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. INTRODUCTION
The present World Bank Credit Line for Small and Medium Industrial
Enterprises, (Loan Number 2263-PO), currently denominated SMI-2
Credit Line, was officially enforced as of the 30th September, 1983,
following negotiations held at the Head Office of the World Bank in
March 1983 and following the signature of the Loan Agreement on the
27th May, 1983 and of the respective Protocol between Banco de
Portugal, IAPMEI and the Credit Institutions mvolved.
The negotiation of the SMI-2 Credit Line took place durng a period in
which the Portuguese economic situation showed signs of recovery,
consubstantiated in an increase of investments and consequent demand
of bank financing, although the expansion of credit was restricted by the
iimits imposed to the Credit Instttons by the Ministry for Finance.
Under this perspective, it was expected that the resort to BIRD funds, as
m the case of the previous Credit Line, would have great demand.
Consequenty the use of the SMI-2 Credit Line and its disbursement
within the foreseen time limits raised no doubs, in spite of the steady
increase of American currency.
2. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Overall conditions
The life period of the SMI-2 Credit Line was estbLished as being of 3
years for the utilizaton period, from the 30th September, 1983 to the
30th September, 1986 and the disbursement period eztensive until the
30tl March, 1989.
The loan amount of USS 40,300,000 viewed the refinancing of
investment projects within the indust-al sector.



- 14 -
The parametres defining the eligibility conditions of Me project were
established m October 1983 for the period up to the 30th June, 1984 and
subject to annual updating until the end of the utilization period of the
Credit Line.
Therefore, in order to simplify the access process, two types of projects
were considered.
Type B projects, directly approved by IAPhEI and which total
mvestment cost did not exceed 70 000 thousand escudos for the case of
energy conservation projects and up to 66 000 thousand escudos for
other free limit projects.
Type A projects, sent directly to BIRD for approval and which total
mvestment cost fell between 67 000 thousand escudos and 135 000
thousand escudos. For these projects and over 80 000 thousand escudos
it was necessary to calculate the TER.
For all projects, the cost of the net fixed assets after conclusion of the
project could not exceed 250 000 thousand escudos.
The investment cost per job kept or created had to be under 4 300
thousand escudos.
The refinancing to be granted by BIRD was of 65% of the value of the
total mvestnent, excluding lands and mterest durng construction.
The draft proposals were formed by documents proving the amount of
credit already used by the borrower, by information on the depreciation
of the capital and on the paym6at of the interest, by means of documents
provag the credit applications and by the copy of the loan contract.
The documents provng the applications could not have a date over 90
days pnor to the presentaton of the dossiers to Banco de Portugl, or
120 days, m the case of Type A projects.



- 15 -
The impossibility to meet this criterium was the reason for most of the
canceLations wbich took place, as it wldl be shown below.
3. PROMOTION AND DIVULGATION ACTIONS OF THE CREDIT LINE
Following the enforcement of the SMI -2 Credit Line and even before the
signature of the Protocol of Agreement, several promotion and
divulgation cctions were cai Aed out in order to dynamize and
imcentivate its utilization, both next to the banking system and to
industrial enterprises, as well as in all the Departments of IAPMEI. This
divulgation was duly reinforced after the first year of its utilization.
The first presentation of the SMI-2 Credit Line was made in Lisbon, on
the 14th July, at the Head Office of IAPMEI, in the presence of technical
cadres of the Analysis Departments of the Banks which, on the 20th
September, 1983, signed the Agreement Protocol.
In the second stage, which began in October and went up to the end of
December, 1983, the first direct contacts were made with almost all of
the Banks ivolved, m Lisbon, Coimbra and Porto, With the aim of
clearing any doubts regarding the integration of the projects, in spite of
the fact that most of these Banks already had experience in this field
from tMe development of the previous Credit Line, (SMI- 1, still in force
at the time), since the elegilibity criteria for the new Credit Line were
different.
Meetng were also held at the Regional Branches of IAPSMI to promote
awarenes and to give information on the procedures to be followed in
the utlization of the new Credit Line, having been prepared a Procedures
Manual.
In a next stage, in 1984, and still under the scope of dinamizing the
cooperaton between the Bnking System and IAPMEI and in order to
adjust some details and make the point of the situation, as well as the



- 16 -
necessary submittal of the alterations to the eligibitity criteria which
were reviewed every year, all the Banks of the Lisbon area were
suramoned for work sessions.
Later, and due to the normal operation of the Credit Line, the promotion
actions were then held whenever the Credit Institutions so wished upon
request to the respective Departments of IAPMEI.
Simultaneously with the information actions, the Institute prepared a
leailet forf the banks with the eligibility criteria of the Credit Line and
information regarding the advantages to be gained by the Credit
Institutions and by the entrepreneurs.
In May, another leaflet similar to the first was published jointly with
Bnco Pinto & Sotto Mayor viewing the promotion of the Credit Line next
to its clients.
In July, Banco Fonsecas & Burnay published a similar promotional leaflet.
In February 1984, 5 000 promotional leaflets of the Credit Line were
published to be distributed among the entrepreneurs, showing the
ecoomwc and tecnical advantages to be had by resortfng to the Credit
Line.
These leaflets were sent to Industrial Associations, Banks and directly to
the enteprises which received monthly sundry technical information.
4. EVOLUTION OF THE CRDIT LINE DURING THE UTILIZATION PERIOD
During the utilization period of the SMI-2 Credit Line, which began in
August 1983 and ended on the 30th September, 1986, maps with the
point of situation for every trimestre were made, viewing, on one hand,
to control the candidate projects and their respective draft and, on the
other, to inform the Credit Instituions involved of their relative position
within the universe of the projected submitted up to that time.



- 17 -
In order to obtain a clear and succinct evolution of the utilization of the
funds made available by BIRD, the date of 30th September of each year
was chosen as reference date up to the closing of the Credit Line.
Also for the above purpows, the participation of the Barking System was
taken as analysis base and from it comments were made on its action,
articulated, wlienever possible, with the most outstanding sectors of
activity, investment amounts, financing and assignments involved, jobs
created if any, as well as the geographic distribution of the enterprises
promoting the projects, bearing in mind, nevertheless, the increasingly
unfavourable economic situation in terms of the decrease of investments,
the accelerated revalorization of American currency and greater credit
availability, even though taking into account the emisting restrictions to
the concession.of credit.
Therefore, inA spite of the lack of interest shown by the Banking SysteLl
and as of the 2nd Trimester of 1984, 177 operations were assigned, at an
average of 13 operations per Institution, i.e., at an average of I operation
per month and per Credit Institution.
In terms of value, the investment involved was of 3 851 792 thouisand
escudos financed in around 562.
Out of the financing granted, 2 168 342 (942) was in condition to be
refinanced, the draft havig been of only 1 7.
In average, the amount assigned per project was of around 11 780
thousand escudos, as shown in Map nQ 1. On the other hand, the loss rate
was of 92.
Due to the quick rise of the dollar (in the last trimester it attained the
value of 1 USS = I. c. 154S00, it was possible to assign 32,72 of the total
value of tMe Credit Line = USS 40,300 x 106, corresponding
approxmatelytoUS$ 13,193x 106.



- 18 -
In what concerns the participation of tie Bankng System (Map nQ 1), the
activtty on the part of BPA was outstanding during this first year, being
alone responsible for 32X of the assignments and for 27,8% of the
amount assigned.
Next came CGD which assigned 26,2X of the total value under 28
operations; this fact is due to the higher volume of the investments
envolved.
With the exception of BPSM ans BESCL, al the other Institutions has up
to this date a very poor performance.
Therefore, only 4 showed interest in using the Credit Line, representing,
on the whole, 79% of the assigned value.
The predominance of these 4 Ins1tions occurred right up to the end of
the utilization period and in the following year the position of BPSM was
overtaken by BTA, BESCL having fatlen to the 5th position. The relative
positions attained became consolidated until the closing of the Credit
Line.
In what concerns the sectoral component, it can be stated that the
sectors which contributed with more projects to the Credit Line were the
Metal-mechanic and Textle and Cotes sectors.
During the first year, these sectors assiged, respectively, 29% and 21%
of the total operations, corresponding to 26% and 23% of the total amount
of the investment, as shown in the table below.



- 19 -
SECTORS OF ACTIVITY Ng  INVEST.            ZONES
OF AMOUNT              -
OP.            NORTH  CENTRE I SOUTH
mining               10   389.718      3        1        6
Food                  9    251.044     2        3       4
TextAle and aothes   38    904.551    28        7       3
Footwear and Leather   12    327.431   9        -        3
Wood, Furnit, Cork   11    205.558     4        3       4
Paper and Graphics    9    104.598      4       3        2
Chemical and Rubber    22   482.102    14       4        4
Non metalic Minerals   15   360.448     3       6        6
Metal-mecanics       51   826.342      15       21      15
TOTAL                   .              462     272      272
Next came the Chemical and Footwear and Leather Sector and it should
also be mentioned that, at ths stage, the less contributive sectors were
the Food, Wood and Paper Sectors.
In what concerns the regonal distribution, the North zone contributed
with 462 of the assigned operations and the first 4 sectors indicated
assiged 802 of that value.
Rgarding job creation, the greatest contribution also came from the
Metal-mechic, Textile and Shoewear sectors, with 562 of the total jobs
to be created.
In 1985 and due to the promotional actions undertaken and to the
attraction of many projects resultAng from Support Programmes mwitin
IAPMEI, it was possible to asi   the Credit Line, both in number of
operations and in the refinanciable amount, around 702 in relation to the
previous year.



- 20 -
The most relevant fact during this year was the high drafted amount,
almost 5 times greater than mn 1984 (Map nQ 2).
The average monthly draft wa.s of 105 345 thousand escudos, of which
3 1 % by BPA, followed by CGD with 2 02, BPSM with 132 and BESCL with
11,82.
However, many projects were not carried out, resulting in a high rate of
cancellations (2702 compared with the previous year and 15% regarding
the number of assigned projects - 301).
In 1986, the deacceleratioii of the assignment of projects became obvious
and the expectations of the total assignment of USS 40,300 x 106 were in
part frustrated.
Only 108 more projects were assigned (362), having the amount of the
assiged value nevertheless increased, attaining 772 compared with the
previous year.
The reason for this mcrease was the fact that half of the 12 Type A
projects, considered 'great projects", were assigned this same year.
During the 2nd semester of 1986, together with the efforts developed for
the integation of the highest number possble of projects, sensibilization
actions were carried out next to the Baning System viewing an
acceleration of the draft operations which had meanwhile decreased.
On the 30th September, 1986, the Credit Line was closed with 409
projects assiged, in a value of 6 172 734 thousand escudos, with only
493 having been drafted and around 18S cancellations (Map nQ 3).
Considenng that during 1986 the average value of the American dollar
was of 1 USS - Esc. 149$587, the amount assigned in doLlrs was of
aprommately USS 41,265 x 106, exceeding the total value of the Credit
Line.



- 21 -
5. FINAL POSITION OF THE SMI-2 CREDIT LINE
5.1. Comments to the participation of the Credit Institutions
As of the end of the utilization period began the stablization stage of the
assigned projects.
Several contacts were then made with the Banks viewing the
acceleration of the draft operations or the timely communication of
cancellations, since the Banks were showing an increasing difficulty in
obtaining data enabling monthy drafts as regularly as possible.
The reasons which led to this situation and which became worse during
1988, were, namely, the lack of documents proving the investment
carried out, out of date documents, cancellation of the requested
financing or even of the foreseen investments.
This set of circumstances reflected on the progressive cancellation of
assigned operations, the number of assigned projects havmg stagnated in
360, corresponding to a refinancing volume of around 4 655 996
thousand escudos and which was totally drafted.
The cauceilation rate was of 34,4%, in a total of 2 077 077 thousand
escudos (Map n 4).
It should be stressed that this value refers only to the 124 cancelled
projects, smce the partial cancellations to which some of the 360 projects
submitted for refnacing would also have to be taken into account.
In the case under discussion, the average investment per project was of
16 750 thousand escudos, a value over the mentioned average. Thlz
deviation was also due to the cancellation of relevant investment
projects,   gned  following  several  applications  to  Industrial
Development Progammes enforced by IAPMEI in 1985 and which did
not come through.



- 22 -
As an eample, in 5 Tpe A projects canclled, tche average investment
value was of 70 000 thousand escudos.
In what concerns the participation of the banking system, the role
played by BPA as leader of the utilization of the Credit Line was a
relevant one and although the contribution in terms of the Bank's
regional areas was not homogeneous (as shown in Map nQ 7), special
reference should be made to Direcao Regional Centro Oeste (Centre-
West Regional Department), undoubtedly the region with the most active
cooperation.
In spite of having cancelled 8 operations in 1988 and requested partial
cancellations in the total value of 258 553 thousand escudos due to
difficulties in obtaining proof documents or non-validity of such
documents for refinancing, it was respnslble for 362 of the universe of
the assigned projects -nd for 372 of the drafted amount
Second, although significantly behind, came CGD with only 17X of the
total projects and 182 of the drafted amount The high number of
cancellations should be refefred.
In regional terms, the contribution in projects was similar in the North
and South zones.
In what concerns BTA and BPSM, the first made an extraordinary
recovery after the first year of activity. The drafted amount was the
same as that of BPSM due to the higher volume of the assigned projects.
The regularity of drafts by BTA should be mentioned, having been one
of the first banks to conclude its participation, although followed closely
by BPSM.
In both cases, the greatest number of projects came from the North Zone.
Safeguarding the postion of BESCL, In fifth with 6,42 of asgned
projects, almost all from the North zone, and a disbursement rate of
7,22, all the remaining Credit Institutions has a modest participation.



- 23 -
The participation of BFN was outstanding regarding the number of
operations, but its low value was due to thle small investments from
projects assigned under Quality Credit Lines, since this Bank also had a
BIRD Credit Line.
Under a sectoral point of view, Maps n2s 8 and 9 show some important
indicators: project distribution by the different sectors of activity and
regional zones, amount of investment involved, type of project (new,
expansion or quality improvement) and jobs created.
Therefore, the sector with the greatest number of assigned projects
(31), greater expansion in total investment and highest number of lobs
created (23,4%) was the Metal-mechanics Sector.
Although with a more balanced regional disliibution than the remaining
sectors, the greatest number of projects came fromi the Centre Zone,
where a significant number of small units were built, expanded and
modernized, namely metalwork, turnery, blacksmith and other units of
this type, and espcially units for moulds for plastics, a sub-sector which
during the last few years has been investing in new equipments.
Next and close behind, the expansion of the Textile and Clothes Sector
was also significant, a sector traditionally implanted in the North Zone,
with 19,4X of assignments and 21,42 of the total investment, being
responsible for 18,5% of the volume of jobs created.
The Chemical and Non-Metallic Ore Sectors together contributed with
23,1 of the total assigned projects. The investment made, almost
entirely for expansion,was of around 102 for both sectors.
The positions of the Wood and Furniture and Shoewear and Leather
Sectors should also be stressed, the latter being relevant due to the
investment volume involved, 7,4&, and to the average value per project,
35 700 thousand escudos, which is relevant smce it is a highly exporting
sector, as wel as due to the number of jobs it traditionally involves.



- 24 -
The majority of the projects concerned shoe manufacturing units,
strongly implanted in the North Zone.
In what concerns job creation, from the overall point of view and of its
relation with the total number of projects, it should be said that out of
the 360 assigned operations, only 266 created jobs, the average being 13
jobs created by enterprise, corresponding to an average investment
amount per lob of around 2 173 thousand escudos.
6. CONCLUSIONS
According to the analysis made in this report, the following conclusion
may be reached.
Overall, the utilization of the SMI-2 Credit Line has some aspects wiich
should be emphasized in order to better understand the reasons w1ich
led to an available final balance of US$ 10,0 x 106.
Durmg the first year, the assignment of projects proceeded quite
normally, although below what was foreseen, due to the poor prospects
already visible.
By the end of the 2nd Semester of 1984, the joint occurrence of several
negative factors led to doubt the effective utilization of around half of
the funds made available by BIRD, a matter which was widely discussed
dunng the regular Supervision hMssions of the World Bank for the
following-up of the Credit Line.
Having been admitted the possbility of estending the utization of the
Credit Line to other Financial Institudons, the respective negotiations,
however, were never, finalzed.
Meanwhile, the low propension towards investment and consequent
decrease of projects led to a greater availability in the restrictions to



- 25 -
credit to be granted by the Financial Institutions, reducing tbe
motivation of the banking system regarding the utization of the Credit
Line
With the exception of some Institutions, like BPA, CGD and even BTA,
BPSM, and BESCL, as well as BFN, with which contacts were always easy
and fruitful, the remaining Institutions lost interest, and in some cases it
was even impossible to carry out the assignment of protects.
On the other hand, the canceUations increased, due to the promotors
giving up, especially regarding new projects in which risk was higher.
These cancellations demanded their substitution, having IAPMEI made
al possible efforts to invert the situation of the Credit Line, assigning the
highest possible number of elegible projects, trying, on one hand, to
substitute the cancelled assignments and, on the other, to lessen the
negative effects of the constante rise of the American doUar which, in the
first trimester, actained the value of 1 USS = Esc. 177,403.
This fact made de alredy slow access to the total assignment of the Credit
Line even more difficult.
The efforts meanwhile carried out enabled that, on the 30th September,
1986, the Credit Line be almost fully assigned, although being far behind
in terms of disbursement.
The time which elapsed between the assignment of projects and the
respective draft of funds was due to two sets of reasons:
a) in many approved operations, the Banks only freed the credit after the
promotor of the investment has used own funds. This situation led, in
some cases, to a delay of months between the request for tMe
assignment of the project and the refinancing request of the credit
granted;



- 26 -
b) the second and more frequent reason consisted of the difficulty to
obtain documents proving the investment, even when the
entrepreneurs had them.
But, if these factors were responsible for the delay which occurred in the
disbursement of funds, there were others and with greater weight, and
so much so that led to the total or partial cancellation of many projects.
Here also are found two reasons:
a) lacl of documents proving the investment made;
b) out of date documents.
a) The first reason occurred in every Credit Institution. The credit was
not always granted against documents proving its application,
especially in the case of small projects.
bi) The second reason had greater incidence on cancellations and was
more senous, being related to the non-accomplishment of one of the
project access critra: the "90 day rule'.
The Bank counters and even the entrepreneurs did not always
safeguard this criterium and therefore dozens of documents
completely out of date were often sent to Banco de Porgal
During 1987 and 1988, IAPMEI and Banco de Portugal once again joined
their efforts in trying to motivate the Management Boards of the Banks
which still had hih undrafted amounts.
Although the pressure of the restrictions to the conession of credit were
stll being felt and, therefore, it was considered important to reactivate
the draft operations, no satisfactory answers were obtained.
Finally, and during the present year, Banco de PorUW  was able, in a last
effort, to obtain the last draft of a significant amount.



- 27 -
ANNXS
Mapsn2s 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,7.1,8,9



TABLE NQ 1 - SITUJATION OF TIlE AMOUNT ASSIGNED ANI) DI)SBUJRSED ON 30/09/84
(ui: contos)
BANKS                     ASSIGNMENTr                                             D ISBURSEMENTS                          ANCELLIED
Ti. ~    iacn  muta~~~raft.ain  JJI Aniount[  mpaidj 
991            6      3.4       54 100  1     44 268   j2.2      1   1     1          4       1 I l536~  3.    373  62
BESCL     17   j9.6        251 743       242 575  1120'   31            1         1 13    74 633122.11  167 94,2 6901  2   111.
Kra       ~3      1.7       23 700        23 380     1.2  12                                 00 1.        183076
BFN4          1 3     7.3       88 250        81 100  ~4.0       1         -1 2               22 100   6.5   59000D72.71   2    11.8
BPA           57     32,2      603 565       565 113   27     8 is         3         36      126 121  37.4  438 992 17.61   4   123.5
BPSH      28     15,8      278 445       265 712   113.01   4           ij        23       20 611   6.1  245 101 92.21   2   111.81
BTA          11      6.2    -101 789          97 518     48      1         2          8       15 585   4.6    81 933 84.0    1,   5.8
EUROV.         1      0.6        3 000         1 950   10.1  __                                                1 95O00 -o
COD      ~28     15.8      557 500       532 146   126.21   1           5         22       52 845  15.7  47 930.1 j95.51  4    23.5
_____          2      1:1   - 17 200          17 200...0.8        - I                2          -             17__ 200I0
SFP            1                 500          39 000    12.01                                                 39 000 1001 
sn    ~    -       -          -                      -I -              _     I    ---                                          -
(IBP          5       2.8      *73 600f       61 168   !3.0i                          5         -61 1681001   2   111.8j
TOTAL      177     100     2 168 342     2 2031 709   I100~  30 j    14           133    1336 960 110011 694 848183.41  17   10



TABLE N 2 - SITUKAION OF TIIE ASSICNMENTS AND DISBURSEMENI'S ON 30/09/85
(im: conts)
ASSIGNMENTS   .                                           DISBURSEMENTS                                  CANCELLED
BANKS  NHE of   X    Financing  lAmount                       D Irafte Pro.part. Proj.w. Amtouqt                 Amount            PRO.IEf I
prol.                         assigned              proj.   drafted   ,drafts   drafted                 for dr. 
Dal          9      3.0      102 700         92 866     2.6       2           3          4        24 516    1.5    68 350   73.6       _       _
SESCL       24      7.9      388 743        375 302    10.7       8          7           9       109 289   11.8   186 013   49.5       3      6.5
-   - _ -_                                                                       I                       _i
BFB          7      2.3       11 700        100 740     2.8       1           -    1    6          5 000    0.3    95 740   95.0       -       _
BFN         30      9.9      248 186        229 255     6.5       6           8         16        67 289    4.2   161 966   70.3       3      6.5
8NU         10      3.4      151 450        141 473     4.0       5           3    i_    2        80 955    5.0    60 518   42.7       -     1
_~~~~                                                                                                  ~       ~~~~~~~~ I _ _ _ __  -. 
SPA        103    34,2    1 254 328       1 058 609    30.4 -   45           17         41       502 479   31,0   556 130   52.5       8      17.1
BPS"        37    12,3       339 085        325 604     9.3      19           4         14       209 306   13,0   116 298   35.7       7      17.3
STA         31    10,3       450 375        421 264    12.1      13           2         16       172 780   10.7   248 484   58.9       6      13.0
CGD         42    13.9       674 460        631 042     18.1    12           12         18       319 773   20,0   311 269   49.3    14        30.4
CISF         -       -          -               -    i
CPP          2      0.6       12 8O          12 266      0.41    -            1          1         6 660    0.4      5 606   45.7      1       2.1
EUNFn.       2      0.6       43-00    *41 950           1.2 | 1               _                   1950    0.1    40 000   95.4        -       -
aPt          1      0,3       20 000         13 000      0.4      -                j    _         11 489    0.7      1 511   11.6      -       -
UBP          3      1.0       45 0,0         36 689      1.01    -    j       2    T    1          9 624    0.6    27065   73.7        4       8.6
=TMAL      301   100        3 841 827     3 480 060    100    ^112           60     J  129   1 601 110  100   1 878 950   539 |46    100
IAFYHI - SAIE/DSF



I.
TABLE N2 3 - SITUATION OF TIHE ASSIGNMENTS AND D)ISBURSlHENT'S ON   30109/86
fmu: canto$)
ASSIGNMENTS                                             DISBURSEMENTS                                 CANCELLED
IIANKS                                  Amutx rftd                                    r                                           f Aon  ROJECTS
N2 of   9                  mount           X )raftedProj.part Prlw     mutAmount 
Proj.         Fsacn           assigned             )rojecb drafI ted    drafts  draftec               o     r,9I
BBI         10      2.4      136 100       126 311      2.0      3           3          4       26 609    0,9    99 02   78.9        1      1.3
DESCI.      28     6.8       516 90        493 148      8.0     12           8          a       285 155    9.4   207 993   42.2      4      5.3
SF8          a      2,0      227 900       191 551      3.1      3           2          3       49 658    1,6   141 83   74.1        3      4.0
OF"         39     9.6       396 721       378 650      6.1     13          12         14       156 776    5.2   221 874   58.6      5      6.7
DNU         12     2.9       183 450       171 371      2.8      9           1          2      112 053    3.7    59 318   34.6       -       -
SPA        145    35,6    2 320 596      2 136 053    34.6      74          23         48      982 915   32.4 1 155 138   54.0    14        18.8
BPS        46    11.7       667 485       636 610    10,3      30           3         15      403 440   13.3   233 170   36.6    13        17,3
__ _                  ._                  _  _            _ _ _      I__ _                            -   .  __          -                       -
STA         37     9.0       754 375       717 914    11.6      26           3          8       419 960   13.8   297 954   41.5      7      9.3
COD         69    16,9    1 172 595      1 120 706      18.2    27          14         28       544 086   17.,9   576 620   51.5    22      29.3
CSr          J     0,2        s8500         17 388       0.3     -           I          -         -         -      17 388  100.0     -    - -
CPP          3     0.7        40 800        40 266       0.7     -           2          1        11 191    0.4    29 075   72.2      1       1.3
lEUW.        2_    05         43 000        4. 950       0.7     1           1          -       14 281    0.5    27 669  66,0        -       -
BPI          1     0.2        20000         13000        0.2     1           -          -       13000    0.4        _         _      _
UsP          6     1.5        95 260        85 016       1.4     1           1          4       14 207    0.5    71 609   83.4       5      6.7
7MAL      _409   )O        6 595 6ft     6 173 734       o     200          74        135      3 033 331  100   3 139 403   50.9    75    1o
IAIWI - SA1EIDSF



TABLE 112 4 -SITUATION OF TIIE ASSIGNMIENTS AND DISBUJRSEMENTS ONl 30/09/87
(um: cuntos)
ASS IGNMENTS                    ____DISBURSEMENTS                                 ____ACLE
BANKS -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CACLE
BANKS    N     X     Financing    Amuotnt            X   DraftedProj.part Proj.y. Amibunt              %   tount             PROJECTS
Proj.                 ~~~~~~assigned        proj.    drafted   dratt:.   drafted              For dr.
4OI         10     2.6       138 100       126 3;'     2,4       3          3          4        26 609    0.6    9702   78,9        1       0.9
DESCI.      24     6.3       432600        362 834      6.9     23          -           1      3368034    6.1    26000    7,2        8      7.5
SF9          7     1.9       197 300       179 864      3.4      3           2          2       49 658    1.2   130 206   72.4       4      3.8
BFlh        38    10.0       336 721       323 400      6.2     13         20           5      232 735    5.6    90 635   28.0       6      5.7
DMU         12     3.2       183 450       165 200      3,2      9          3           -      133 225    3,2    31 975   19.4       -       -
SPA        139    36.8    2 173 046      2 0D8 223    38.2    103          21          15    1 655 717   39.7  '352 506   17.6    20    l18.9
BPS"        43    11,4       558 585       523 402    10.0      39          2           2      487 543   11.7    35 859    6.9    18        17.0 
BTA         32     8.5       606 375       526 995    10.0      32          -           -      526 995   12.6       -         -     1 2     11.3
CGD         61    16,1       929 556       887 939    16,9      44          13          4      683 967   16.4   203 972   23.0    30        28.3
CISF         1     0.3        18500         17 388     0.3       -          -           I         -         -     17 388  100        -       -
CPP          3     0,8        40800         40 266     0.8       -          2           1       11 191    0.3    29 075   72.2       1      0.9
LUROF.       2     0.5        43000         14 281    -0.3       2          -           -       14 281    0.3       -         -      -       -
BPS          1     0.3        20 000        13 000     0.2       1          -           -       13 000    0.3       -        -       -       -
UBP          5     1,3        73 500        64 056      1.2      1          2           2        3 052    0.1    610041  95.2        6      5.')
7orAL   3780   0        5 751 533     5 253 159    100      273         68       *37       4 1748037  100   1 078 322   20.2   106    100



TABLE N2 5 - SITUATION OF TIIE ASSIGNMENTS ANI) I)ISBUIRSEM]NTS ON 30J109/88
(un: cotos)
BANKS        .   ~~~ASSIGNMENTS                                                 D)ISBURSEMENTS                                 CANCELLED
BANKS ~~~~~~~~~                                           jjPROJECTS
N2 of           Financing    Amount                  D Iraftec  Proj.par4 Proj.w. Amiotnt                Amoutjit 9T
___proj.             ____    assigned                ~     proj. '  drafted  Idrafts'  draftedi               for dr. __          ____
Bel          7      1.9        86 700         73 474     1,5       5                      1        26 609    0.6    46 865   63.7        4  -    3.4
BESCL       23      6.3       402 690        336 834    -6.81~23    I          -          -       336 834    7.6       -         -       9      7.8
BFB         -7      1.9       197 300-       179 864     3.        3           2     I    2        50 558     1.1   129 306   71.9       4      3*4
BFN         35      9.5       321 471       289 913     -                   . -35         -       289 913    65             -            9)    7.8
emuI        12      3.3       183 450       133 225      2.71   12            --                  133 225    3.0       --                --
BPA        137    37.4      2 132 046      1 989 755  -39.2    109           la1         10    1 670 708   37.6   319 047   16.0    22         19.0
BPSH        43    11.7       .551 051       515 897    10,4       42   j       I                  514 951   11.6        946    0.2]   IS       15
BTA         32      8.7       606 375       526 995    10.6       32                              526 995   11.9       -         -      12     10.3
61    16.6       925 0%         855 170      17.21   56    j      4          1       801 397   18.0    53 783    6.3    29         25.0
CISF                 ---1-                                                           I    ---1    0.9
CPP    ~  2      0.5       12800          11 331       0.21    2           -            .       11331     0.3       -        -       2        .
ELW0F-    2      0.15      43 000         14 281       0.31    2           -                  14 281      0.3       -        -       -        -
BPI          1      0.3        20 000        13 000       0.3'    1    I      -                    13 000    0.3       -         -      -        -
UBP          5      1.4        73 500        64 056       1.31    3    I      2           -        5288      1.2    1 1208   17.5       6       5.1
IOTAL      367   100        5 555 349     5 003 795     to001325             28     j   1 4      4442 650 100       561 145   11.2   110       So
JARMEl - SA7t/DSP



TABLE N2 6 - FINAL SITUATION OF THE ASSIGNMENTS AND DISBIIRSEMENTS
n(u: coztos)
ASSIGCENTS                                  DISBURSEMENTS                   CANCELLAT.           IOSS RATE
BANKS                                                          -_Cancelle   Assigned
_______   NPr. - Financing  Amount.ass ,           Draf.Pr   Amotiuit draf.   XNPr   Amont: C Projects   Proiet..ts
DII           7     1.9       86 700          65 478     1.4       7            65 478         1.4   4        72 4b       3.2          57.1
KMCL         23     6.4      402 600         336 834     7.2      23           336 834        7.2   9       124 904       7*3          39,1
DPI            6     1,7       157 300        127 949     2.7       6           127 949        2.7    5       66 771       4,0          83.3
DIN          35     9,7      321 471      . 289 913    6.2        35           289 913        6.2    9      115 475       7,3          25.7
4i           12     3.3      183 450         133 225     2,9      12           133 225        2.9    _     -               - _           -
.PA            131    36.4    2 040 246      1 731 202    37.3    131         1 1731 202        37,3  28       385 611     22.6           21.4
amH          43    11.9      551 051         515 897    11.1      43           515 897       11.,  18       223 194      14.5          41.9
IrA          32     8.9      606 375         526 995    11.3      32           526 995       11.3  12       208 667       9.7          37.5
om           61    16.9      924 862         837 043    18.0      61           837 043       18.0  30       757 747      24.2          49.2
cisF          -      -          -              -          -       -              _-           _      1       17 388      0.8             _
LW            2     0.6       12 800          11 331     0.2       2            11 331        0.2    2       3840         1.6         100.0
EUWF.         2     0.6       43 000          14 281     0.3       2            14 281        0.3   -        -            -             _
DPI           1     0,3       20000           13 00      0.3       1            13 000        0.3    -       -            -             _
IBP           5     1.4       73 500         52 848    1.11        5            52 848        1.1    6       66S520      4.8          120.0
1UAL      360     100    5 423 355      4 655 996   |100|   360            4 655 996       1001124   2 077 0771        100           34.4
LUI - SA1E/Sr



,* ,N 7 - FINAL DISTRIBUTION - PROJECTS PER REGIONS AND PER BANKS
(un: cmtos)
ZONES ;NORTH                             |CENTRE                       |SOUTH
PBI's~ N  o f, |Financing Assig.dr      2 Poif IFinanc!ng Assig.dr. | > of  |inancing IAssig.dr.|
BBI       |2           9 1001      6 501 - |--             | _        1  5   |77 6001    58 9781
13ESCL       21   |361 600    2672          -        -          -         2 |  41 0001   40 0821
|BF1B      |               01          ol- |                      -5   g  5  30    122 9491
BFW  -- T- 19       216 3211  D2-0821 WI        I- -  - I             I 16   105 1501-  87 0311
|BNU       |        -T | 134 45 1    94 3441     I    -                1   6   F   70 0001   38 881 1
...    _  .       I           I~~          ~ ~ 1  1 _       1 .     I         I           I
|BPA       |  3 |581 976    527 5421 |82   1-1 09   0        4  57 1 1T6   |-362 1-70 1  25   0  
! BPSM  | 26   1 278 785    270 954  11 |l 16t 16001   144 8911             I t 111 1661|  100 0521w
BTA         1T9        35~01751  297 2061   -   I          I    -     |13 -    56 2001   229 7891
l_  l   |   I     I         l           I                 I           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
CGD          29      444 34I 412 761 1  -   |   _               _        32- I 480 5221  424 28 1
CISF      |__                     _         _ | _          | __                     _         _ 
CPP        --T1      -6 0-00       451      -        _          _         1        6 8001     6 86001
EURF.    |-                       -                                                         2     43 0001    14 281|
B PI       |1          20 0001    13 000 - |  -                 -      - |     
!UBP       ]            7oo         691-                    - -        4   1  56 5001 3  )0
TOTAIS     159    2 403 7471 2 1413 1701| 93   |1 257 2001 1 091 148| 1 08   |1 762 ]g4U9 1 416 6751
44%        4        6          6        3        29/0   j- 30% Y1  33%   1  31%   .1
v AMRT   c^t- Al /ne!r



TABLE N2 7.1 - FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF TIIE PROJE(TS PER' REGIONS AND 'BANKS
~~~~~~~~~~~~l1                                                                    '   -I
ZONES    |           NOR'T             I          CENTE              I        SOIFlil 
I  ~_         _   _      _I                      _    _    I  _ _    __             _  I
N2of IFinancing-Assign.dr.N               71 o           INO of                        I
PBI's     |           0 of .                    iFinanc ing 1Assign.dr1o.  ,FinancingjAssigri.dr.
BBI                   0 1,3  i3             -                                      4 -  4 --  4,41    4,2
BESCL     | 13,2 |2 15,0   113,8    I-  _                  I   -_    1.91   2,31   2,8
_ _ _ _ _   I i   _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _   I  _ _0I2II             -        I           I
BFB       |           02   |  02                                         4,61   8,6  | 
BF'N        12,0   |  9,C   |  9,4  -         - |     - _I_ 14I                      , | 6,1
IBNu           774    14,4   I-I -    -1,
B   --    1 ~~3,8     4,7-   44          -        -          = -- 5,6           4,0       2,8
BPA       I 20,8  I 24,2   | 24,6           2      8,  87,    |  6,7  ?   14,8    20,6T      1,
BPSM       i 16,4  | 11,6       12,6    |11,81  12,8   I 13,3    | 5,6  I   6,3               M 7,1
IBTA      |12,9  |114,7         13,8    |  -   I   _    |   _         |12,0       14,5  I  16,2   I
CG 1D,2  19,3                               -        -          -       29,6  1  27,3  I  29,9   I
CISF     _ |  __ | _ _   | _         __    | __  | ___   I __          I  __ I    __ I           __ 
CISF          --             I -         I--               I        I      I     --                 I
CPP       I0,6      0,2       0,2        I-I            -      -        0.91    0.4           0,51
EUROF.                                                                     9 -   |   _    I   -  I  -   I   _    I   -   19_|   2,4     10   |
BPI _        0,6  |  0,8   |  0,6    |  -   I   -     I   -             _ -     _   -     _        -
UBP       10,610,7-    O,W]   --                     -    I       -13-,71          3,2          2,6-
I                                                                                      --I   .     1 .  1  1  1    _ __ _   I  __l
1=AIS   1100    |100        1100        OO      0                   11                 1100I
IAFIEI - SAI-/DSF



TABL.E N' 8 - DISTRIBUTION BY SECTORS OF ACTIVI'T'Y ANI) TYPE OF I'RO.JECT
Types of Project
INumber of I    lInvestment I    I                                             | New Jobs  I    I
Pojects  %   |  amount   |% X        New          I X Expantion 'Qualityl    1            |%  |
|MINING                       I    15    1 4.21   571 703 1 5.91    6        1 7,81   9  1 3,21   -   I-  I        204   15.71
| FRODSTUFF                   |    22    | 6,11   522 850 1 5.51    4        1 5.21  18  1 6,41   3   1 9,11       134   I 3.71
| IEXTILLE AND GARMENTS       1    70    119.41 2044 128 121,41   12         115,61  58  120,51   4   112,11       662   118,51
| SHOE AND LEATHER            |    20    1 5.51   713 827 | 7.51    7        | 9.11  13  | 4,61   2   | 6,11       637   117.71
W WOD, CORK AND FURNI1URE  1    24    1 6.71   703 151 1 7.41    4           1 5.21  20  1 7,11   -   I -  1       298   1 8,31
| PAPER AND PRINTING          1    14    | 3.91   425 452 | 4.51    4        1 5,21  10  1 3.51   1   1 3.01        94   1 2,61
| CHEMICALS AND PLASTICS    |    45    112,51 1 016 805 110,61   11          114,31  34  112,01  10   130.31       281   1 7,81
| NOM METALLIC MINERALS       |    38    110,61   993 598 110,41   10        112,91  28  | 9,91   1   | 3.01       440   112,31
| tETALLMECIHANICS            I   112    131.11 2 557 907 126.81   19        124,71  93  132,81  12   136,41       840   123,41
I _ _ __ _ _ _ ,_ __ _ _ _I__ __ _ _I__ __ _ I _I___ _ _ _l__ I  _ _I_I__ _ _ _.___ _ _   I__ __     I__ __ _ _ _I_ I _ _ _I  __ _ _,1I__ _ _   I_ _1__ __       1___ _ _ _1_ _
ITOAL                       I   360    1100 1 9549 421 1100 1  77          1100 0  283  1100 1 33   1    1   3 590   1100I
IARfI - SATE/lDSF



38
- - - - -.' -~ -' -~  NO- -  -~ -
~~~c _~N t >                          Is oIu q
-  -    i-  -     -     -     -     --  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -
P                  M              CY en    CY
-                                                   --
F                    , en  %    r*W Q0
Cy
--      - -  - -  -  --  -_ -  -             - 0  -  -
.                                                   I-
I        L  ~I- - -  -  - - -  -  -            N         
4c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Ct                              - - -                     -
rn         w~~ I,  .,,  _I_N                              I
B . X      ~i-              I             t     I i-
O~~~~~.   qr   _) -W            C"   0e co     CY 
- - - -  -  -           -  - ---   -  -          1
-z -1ffi1     t--   -                1t 1   1
e.I                 I ,  , N  N Ii_   Ii-            C    2
_   __  __ __ __ __ __-
I                    __ 1    1 
IStEiILi       a



- 39 -
PART III
Statistical Information
Table 1: Related Bank Loan                            Table 2: Project Timetable
Loan Title:  Portugal - SMI I                                          Original Plan  Actual
Purpose:        Provide lines of                      Appraisal            07/02/82         same
credit to finance SMI                Board Approval   04/19/83             same
projects                             Signing              05/27/83         same
Year of                                               Effectiveness    09/29/83             same
Year of                                ~~~~~~Loan Closing 
Approval:        1979                                 Date                 03/31/89         same
Status:         Completed
Source: World Bank
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual Disbursements                         Table 4: Use of Staff Resources
Estimated    Actual                                                        Staffweeks
FY84        5.'          0.3
FY85       14.0           7.8                            Through Appraisr'             27.7
FY86       24.0         18.8                             Through Board
FY87       33.1         29.4                             Approval.1.
FY88       38.6         32.2                             A.5.2
FY89       40.3         32.2                             Supervision                   35.3
FY90       40.3         30.6*
._________________                                       78 .2
'US$9.7 maN canosw d
Table 5: Major Bank Missions
Yonth/      No. of      No. of                  Date of
Year       Weeks        Persons     Staffweeks  Report
Apprassal        09/82         2             3            6       03/11/83
Supervision 1    05/83         1            3             3       06/16/83
Supervision 11    11/83        1            2             1       12/15/83
Supervision III   06/84        1             1            1       07/09/84
Supervision IV    11/84        1            2             2       11/20/84
Supervision V    12/85         1             1            1       12/13/85
Supervision VI    05/86      0.5             1          0.5       05/2Z/86
Supervision VII   10/88      0.S            2             1       11/18/88
oung mnt supenon misos. pwntlCwoa camed o alssro ssognens InLudn  _pmn co
SMI-1. BFN-2 anad SFPN3. SuWneaS hGW  snfl f0 WaCcodng. INA 6CkW UNM aSlIOfd 60 SUPONSM
d 51A42Nx mto cnlodww at ob suhnc e.



- 40 -
STATUS OF COVENANTSY
Prolect Aareement
Section 2.01
Subject:   IAPMEI maintenance of project  records,  provision of supervision
reports, quarterly progress reports on commitments and disbursements and
preparation of a project completion reports.
Status: Partial compliance. IAPMEI did not provide information on the impact
of the subprojects, i.e. the economic rate of return.
Section 2.03
Subject:    IAPMEI exchange of views with the Bank on the performance of its
obligations under the project agreement and other matters relating to the loan.
Status: Compliance.
Section 2.04
Subject: IAPMEI to inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or which
threatens the progress of the Project or the performance if the obligations of
the participating entities.
Status: Compliance.
Sections 3.01
Subject: General provisions for the conduct of operations.
Status: Compliance.
1/    The status of covenants is based on supervision reports of December
1983, January 1985 and November 1988, which involved supervision
missions and apparent updates of the forms 590 for the project in June
1989 and June 1990. The updated forms 590 and the apparent final
supervision mission for the Project (11/88) have no information on the
status of covenants. The only supervision report which mentions the
satus of covenants is the January 1985 report, which reports default in
Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement. In the absence of information to
the contrary, all other covenants are reported in compliance except for
Section 2.01 which appears to be in partial compliance.



- 41 -
Suction 3.02
Subject: Ensurance of quality control procedures.
Status:   Compliance.
Secton 3.03
Subject: General provisions for record maintenance.
Status:   Compliance.
Section 3.04
Subject:   IAPMEI to exchange of views with the Bank on its annual program,
implementation of the program, and maintenance of a program for specialized
consulting services at least at the level of 1983.
Status: Partial compliance. IAPMEI did not consistently maintain its consulting
services at the same level as in 1983.
Loan Agreement
Section 3.01
Subject: General statment on the purpose of the project, the execution of the
project according to Schedule 2, performance of IAPMEI and responsibility of the
Borrower, the modality for onlending the proceeds of the loan and the exercise
of Borrower rights.
Status: Compliance.
Setion 4,01
Subject:   Policy concerning external debt and priority of the Bank loan.
Status: Compliance.



- 42 -
Section 4.02
Subject: The Borrower, in agreement with the Banco dr. Portugal, will continue
to provide participating financial intermediaries with incentives to participate
under the project, including adding the amounts of the subloans refinanced under
the Project to the PBI's credit ceiling.
Status: Compliance.
Schedule 2
Subject:   Relative responsibilities of IAPMEI,  the PBIs and the Banco de
Portugal; subloan eligibility criteria, appraisal and approval; financial
procedures and conditions; audit; subloan agreements; and protocols.
Status: Compliance.



