Document of
The World Bank                     FiLE PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3497-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PF
March 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1982                    August 1982
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
JS$l = 79.98 Esc.                   US$1   = 81.4 Esc.
1 Esc. = US$0.0125                    1 Esc. = US$0.0123
FISCAL Y-EAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS
BdP        Banco de Portugal
BFN        Banco de Fomento Nacional
CGD        Caixa Geral de Depositos
EEC        Economic European Community
EFTA       European Free Trade Association
EIB        European Investment Bank
IAPMEI     Institute for the Support of Small and Medium Industries
LIBOR      London Interbank Offer Rate
MIEE       Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports
MLT        Medium- and Long-Term
SMI        Small and Medium Industry
WHO        World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Portugal
Beneficiaries:           Small- and medium-scale industry enterprises
(SMIs)
Amount.                 US$40.3 million equivalent, including the
capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including three years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange
and interest risks.
Rielending Terms:       Final beneficiaries would receive credit with
maturities not to exceed 12 years, including
three years of grace, at floating interest rates
equal to the floating interest rate payable on
local currency loans with similar terms
(currently 26 percent). The intermediary banks
would be able to refinance up to 65 percent of
the subproject cost, at a 3.5 percent spread.
After deducting spreads of 1.5 percent to IAPMEI
for promoting and assisting the SMI investments
and 0.75 percent to the central bank for managing
the refinance facility, the balance of the
difference between the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and the beneficiaries rate would be
paid to the Government Treasury to cover foreign
exchange and interest risks.
Project Description.   The project would support the Government's
strategy for industrial growth and employment and
forthcoming EEC accession, which assigns high
priority to the development of the SMI sector.
The project would support investment and
rehabilitation programs of Portuguese SMIs
through a program of policy dialogue and
technical and financial assistance. The project
seeks to ensure the long-term viability of
existing SMI employment and to create new jobs at
modest capital costs per job. It would also
continue the ongoing efforts to strengthen
appraisal and support capacities of financial
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
and technical assistance institutions serving
SMIs. The project faces moderate risks
associated with possible slow utilization of the
credit line or lower than expected quality of
subprojects. Appropriate incentives have been
introduced to maintain the interest of the
participating banks and to strengthen appraisal
and support capabilities of financial and
technical institutions serving SMIs.
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
FY1984 FY1985 FY1986 FY1987 FY1988 FY1989
Annual                5.1    9.0   10.0    9.0    5.5    1.7
Cumulative            5.1   14.1   24.1   33.1   38.6   40.3
Economic Rate of Return.               At least 12 percent
Appraisal Report:                      No. 4185-PO, dated March 11, 1983



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A SECOND SMALL
AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$40.3 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Second Small and Medium
Industry Development project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, in-
cluding 3 years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, entitled ""Policies for Industrial Re-
structuring" (No. 3804-PO,) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
August 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. An updating eco-
nomic report has been discussed with the Government and will be distributed
shortly.
Background
3.        The revolution of April 1974 and its aftermath radically trans-
formed Portugal's economy. The banks, insurance companies, power companies,
major transportation agencies and large industrial groups were nationalized.
A comprehensive land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts
of the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safe-
guarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints were put on the
highest salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment and social
security benefits were increased. Real wages and private consumption in-
creased rapidly in the period to 1977, resulting in a significant improvement
in income distribution. The Government also increased public expenditures
and deficits (necessitating rapid monetary expansion) to meet the expecta-
tions of improved living standards which had been generated by the revolu-
tion. The general circumstances of the revolutionary period and its after-
math also generated a serious deterioration in the profitability and general
financial position of the private sector.
4.        A combination of adverse external factors, together with the struc-
tural changes brought about by the revolution, resulted initially in a sharp
deterioration in the balance of payments. The period 1974-77 saw Portugal
fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private consumption
and meeting the investment needs of the economy. A program of austerity mea-
sures, including currency devaluations, was implemented in 1976 and 1977, but
its impact was reduced by the continued rapid expansion of credit, mainly to
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Seventh Power Project, which was approved by the Executive Directors on
February 24, 1983.



- 2 -
finance the Government deficit. In early May 1978, the Government adopted a
comprehensive program to reduce the balance of payments deficit and by 1979,
the current account deficit was virtually at zero, export volumes rose by 29
percent while import volumes rose by only about 7 percent. In early 1980,
the focus of policy shifted to the control of inflation, and a six percent
revaluation of the escudo was implemented in February. Together with con-
tinued but weaker credit restraint and price controls, this helped to bring
the inflation rate to a level of about 17 percent for the year.
Recent Developments
5.        The period since 1979 has seen the progressive deterioration of
economic performance in most major aspects and especially in relation to the
balance of payments. The growth rate of GDP, after having been lifted to 5.5
percent by expansionary policies in 1980, declined to less than 2 percent in
1981. Inflation, which reached 24 percent in 1979 and was brought back by
administered price restraints to 17 percent in 1980, accelerated to about 25
percent by the end of 1981. The current account deficit rose to $1.2 billion
in 1980 and to an estimated level of $2.7 billion (11 percent of GDP) in 1981.
Three main sets of factors have contributed to this'deterioration. They are;
(i) a reaction of wages to their decline in real terms from 1977 onwards;
(ii) a series of unfavorable exogenous factors including the 1980 oil price
hike and the 1981 drought; and (iii) serious weaknesses in underlying
policies. This recent deterioration has left the economy less able to face
up to the challenge and the fundamental structural changes necessitated by
prospective EEC entry.
6.        The policies pursued during the past four years have not made any
real dent in unemployment (still over 8 percent), and the emphasis on short-
run stabilization has also delayed the formulation of policies to address the
serious structural problems which Portugal faces. Particularly important is
the large dependence on imported energy; the rising dependence on food im-
ports; a backward agricultural sector; an industrial sector, parts of which
still require heavy protection in comparison with the EEC; an ill-defined
attitude to public enterprises; and a weak tax structure. Despite rising
confidence in Portugal's economic and political stability, private investment
has been very disappointing in recent years (it even fell in real terms in
1979), and has certainly not been adequate given the very considerable in-
vestment needs of the economy.
A Strategy for the Eighties
7.        The recent sharp deterioration in the balance of payments suggest
that stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy. Growth rates on the order of 4 to 5 percent per annum, which were
earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with the main-
tenance of reasonable stability in the balance of payments over the next
three to four years. The dilemma which the Government now faces is to ad-
dress the serious deterioration in the economic situation, while at the same
time undertake structural changes. Stabilization policies will need to be



- 3 -
pursued in a framework which is consistent with efforts to restructure indus-
try, to encourage investment attuned to energy-saving and to improve the
generally weak productivity performance of Portuguese agriculture. The main
objective of these stabilization policies would be to reduce the balance of
payments' current account deficit to more manageable levels, as well as defi-
cits of the Government budget and of the public enterprises, and to reduce
inflation. While the Government has taken first steps by devaluing the
escudo by 9.4 percent in mid-1982 and by initiating an investigation into the
financial and economic situation of public enterprises, much more remains to
be done. A combination of appropriate exchange rate policies, interest rate
policies and fiscal policies will have to be implemented quickly in order to
avoid a further deterioration of the economic situation. At the same time,
if reasonable growth rates are to be achieved in spite of oil, food and other
structural dependencies on the import side, Portugal will certainly require a
rate of growth of visible exports significantly higher than the growth of
world trade. Portugal will also need to retain policies which can maintain
migrants' remittances at a high level. To achieve these objectives will
require careful balancing on the part of the Government since the measures
which could ensure a reasonable balance of payments position may, at the same
time, discourage investment and slow the rate of growth.
8.        As Portugal expects to join the EEC in the mid-eighties, the posi-
tion defined above will require the country to fully exploit its potential
comparative advantage. In the industrial sector this will mean emphasis on
labor-intensive industries, both light industries, such as textiles and foot-
wear, and heavier items, including electrical machinery and transport equip-
ment. This will imply a substantial, and possibly painful, rehabilitation
process in some cases (e.g., textiles). Although Portugal's industrial
strategy must give priority to exports, the development of basic industry to
supply the domestic market should also be pursued whenever adequate rates of
return can be demonstrated. It will also be important to dismantle, or at
least simplify, many of the complex Government interventions to which Portu-
guese industries have become accustomed. These include the system of invest-
ment incentives, the price control apparatus, the arrangements for export
incentives, and extensive non-tariff barriers to trade.
9.        Portugal's industrial strategy is also complicated by the fact that
its wage advantage will be eroded as the country will be gradually integrated
into the EEC and that intensified competition from the Far East will become a
problem for some products in which Portugal may have a comparative advantage
in the EEC for the moment. The Government also faces the very difficult pro-
blems of improving labor mobility and devising better arrangements for con-
trolling the evolution of public enterprises and their investment program.
Neither of these problems permits an easy solution and both require the early
definition of coherent and comprehensive programs.
10.       In the case of agriculture, the adoption of EEC policies will raise
prices to consumers but, at the same time, could cause a net flow of re-
sources into agriculture. It will also change the relative profitability of
various agricultural commodities. Portugal needs to respond to the opportu-
nity presented by EEC entry and thereby reduce the current very large trade



deficit in agricultural commodities. The necessary response is to modernize
and increase investment in the cultivation of fruits, off-season vegetables
and, possibly, vegetable oils where the climate and early season confer a
strong comparative advantage. Modernization in other more traditional agri-
cultural crops is desirable even in the absence of EEC entry, but would also
help to reduce the potential costs to the economy of EEC membership.
11.       There are five main types of adjustment which Portugal will need to
make to respond to the changed circumstances within the EEC for the agricul-
ture sector. First, the allocation of agricultural resources will need to be
adjusted to try to maximize the benefits to the sector of the EEC structure
of administered price supports which are often radically different from those
traditionally applied in Portugal (e.g., emphasis on extensive rather than
intensive livestock production). Second, a major effort will be needed to
raise production in those areas, and notably cereals, where the foreign
exchange implications of the EEC agricultural protection policy could be
extremely severe. Third, complementary arrangements will be needed to reform
the policies for the consumer subsidization of basic foodstuffs since contin-
uation of present levels of consumer prices would involve a much increased
budgetary outlay. Fourth, steps need to be taken to develop the institutions
which will be necessary to take full advantage of EEC arrangements for sup-
porting producers. A major example of this is the need to develop producers'
associations and cooperatives, especially for fruits, to act as the vehicle
for EEC purchases of surplus production. A related need is to develop EEC-
consistent grading arrangements for fruits and wines so that potential ex-
ports are not lost. Finally, arrangements need to be devised for the gradual
dismantling of Portugal's present monopolistic marketing arrangements.
12.       The last economy-wide planning exercise in Portugal was conducted
in 1976, in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not
implemented. Work has been underway for some time now to develop sector
plans for the major sectors; draft plans for energy, agriculture and trans-
port have been prepared. The challenge for Portuguese planners is to be
highly selective in their program of public investment in support of these
plans, at an acceptable cost in terms of scarce budgetary and other resources.
In addition, it is extremely important to seek new institutional arrangements
to streamline decision making as well as project preparation, implementation
and supervision. As regards public enterprises themselves, there is a need
to define a medium-term strategy which will differentiate between their
social and economic objectives. For the moment, the development of these
enterprises and external lending to them is significantly hindered by the
fact that the economic cost of meeting social objectives is sometimes not
taken into account by the Government.  Subsidy, pricing and other policies
towards public enterprises should be made in the light of a clear understand-
ing of their consequences, with adequate and explicit provision made for any
divergence.
13.       The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the
economic growth rate foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for
about 60 percent of the investment of the period. The very large increase in



- 5 -
exports in 1979 is evidence of the gains that the private sector can make in
major markets. However, private investment is still hindered by several fac-
tors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still relatively low
by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the near future.
Credit availability to the private sector is restricted by the continuing
large public sector borrowing requirement, although in the absence of strong
private sector demand, this has not been a major constraint in the past.
Potential investors have considered current interest rates too high and the
investment incentive schemes are essentially designed to mitigate the per-
ceived high cost of capital for selected investments. Under the schemes,
economic viability is a prerequisite for larger investments and an important
factor in evaluating smaller ones. On the other hand, the new schemes pro-
vide only modest additional encouragement to exports and are not well-target-
ted for promoting needed rehabilitation investments; furthermore, they are
very costly to the Government.
14.       Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are
underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be expanded
further and focussed on production-oriented investments. The mechanism and
structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be rationalized to provide
appropriate incentives for long-term investments. While increased on-farm
investments are necessary, little will be achieved without substantial ad-
vances on the technical side as well. The extension services of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries need to be upgraded, and their links
to research and to the farmers need to be strengthened. Recent efforts to
train agricultural manpower and the farmers themselves need to be intensified.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portu-
gal's need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and
for long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, Banco de Portugal has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlements and European central banks. In addition, as of end
1981, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to Portugal amounted to
about $60 million. The EEC, European Investment Bank (EIB), European Free
Trade Association (EFTA), as well as bilateral agencies have committed signi-
ficant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term
projects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II. In large part
because of Portugal's gold reserve, the Government and major banks and com-
panies are able to attract medium-term loans from consortia of commercial
banks in the Eurocurrency market. Recent terms provided eight years repay-
ment with interest rates as low as 0.4 percent over LIBOR. The Government's
efforts to stimulate direct foreign investment have resulted in large commit-
ments by Renault and by Ford and the promise of other substantial invest-
ments. Portugal will however continue to require sizeable external inflows
for the investment necessary to restructure its economy and finance its large
external deficits. The multilateral lenders, and in particular, the World
Bank and the EEC/EIB, will have to continue to play a vital role in helping



-6 -
Portugal meet its capital requirements. In this respect, the pre-accession
aid granted by the European Commission of about 275 million units of account
plays a useful part.
16.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt
(disbursed and outstanding) rose from about $3.7 billion at end 1978 to about
$6.6 billion at end 1981. Service payments on this debt, which amounted to
only from 7.9 percent of exports of goods and services plus workers' remit-
tances in 1978, almost doubled in percentage terms to reach an estimated 14.6
percent by the end of 1981. Preliminary figures for end-1981 from Banco de
Portugal suggests a total outstanding debt of $10.2 billion (including $3.4
billion of short-term debt). The debt service ratio (MLT only) is expected
to rise to over 20 percent by the middle of the decade. Although Portugal's
total debt outstanding still remains at manageable levels, it needs careful
monitoring, especially in view of the rapid buildup of short-term debt in 1980
and 1981. Given Portugal's gold reserves of about 22 million troy ounces,
this seems a large but acceptable burden to carry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Government
priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing industrial
sector. The events of the more recent past have created special problems;
the transition to an open political system has revealed social and economic
weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively high-income developing country.
The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by identifying, preparing and
financing projects, and through economic and sector work.
18.       The proposed loan would finance the Bank's twenty-third project in
Portugal, the eighteenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank
operations since 1976 involved two highway projects, three industrial finance
projects, two education projects, as well as one project each for water sup-
ply, agricultural and fisheries credit, forestry, fertilizer modernization,
mechanical industries, energy conservation and diversification, rural deve-
lopment, power, and petroleum exploration. A Seventh Power project was
approved by the Executive Directors in February 1983. Total Bank financial
assistance since the resumption of lending amounts to about $785 million, net
of cancellations.
19.       As of February 28, 1983, total disbursements from loans made since
the resumption of lending in 1976 amounted to nearly $233 million. The 1976
Power loan and the 1977 First Banco de Fomento Nacional loan are fully dis-
bursed and closed, and the other 1977 loan, Highways I, is fully committed.
Looking at the 1978-1982 loans, projects involving direct lending to industry
are progressing well and disbursing without major problems, and development
finance company loans are proceeding satisfactorily. However, projects
directly implemented by the administration, or largely controlled by it, are
slow in execution and disbursement. The main reasons for this are adminis-
trative weaknesses, such as insufficient coordination, as well as limited



experience in project preparation, implementation and supervision. As the
result of a thorough bi-annual country implementation review, in close con-
sultation with the implementing agencies and the Central Government authori-
ties, some of these problems have been attenuated; others are currently being
addressed by adjusting institutional components in project design. These
across-the-board reviews have proved useful and should lead to improvements
over time. Portugal's record on disbursements has lagged behind that of
other countries in the Region, but has improved significantly in the last
months. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and the IFC
investment as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank is assisting the Government in reviewing policy and manage-
ment issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of
the water supply (together with WHO), education and agriculture sectors and
of manufacturing export industries were carried out and discussed with the
Government, and the corresponding reports distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors. The most recent in the series of economic reports, "Policies for
Industrial Restructuring," was distributed to the Executive Directors in
August 1982. A transport sector memorandum was recently discussed with the
Government and a major agricultural sector survey will be initiated in FY83.
21.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as areas of concentration for
Bank lending. The importance of developing the industrial sector cannot be
overemphasized since this sector is expected to be the main force in the
Portuguese economy, to lead economic growth, continue the export expansion
which started in 1978, and to maintain competitiveness in the EEC in the years
ahead. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are structural reform,
export promotion, employment creation (or preservation) and promoting energy-
saving investments. The Bank is also assisting in petroleum exploration. To
address the needs of the agricultural sector, the Bank has assisted the
Government in creating an agricultural credit institution and approved loans
for a forestry project and an integrated rural development project. The
trained manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors,
which constitute a serious bottleneck, are being addressed through the FY78
and the FY80 Education loans.
22.       The stabilization policies of 1977-1979, while initially contribut-
ing to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permitted imple-
mentation of the development programs now urgently needed in many sectors.
Heavy dependence on imported oil, a rapidly increasing oil bill, three years
of drought and a recession in Portugal's export markets have again worsened
the balance of payments outlook.   If the restructuring needs of the economy
are to be tackled seriously and the pressing deficiencies in the social sec-
tors corrected, long-term external assistance will be needed to help Portu-
gal. It is the World Bank's objective to contribute to these efforts and to
provide advice on institutional reforms which are crucial for Portugal's long-
term economic objectives.



- 8 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
23.       The industrial sector is a leading sector in the Portuguese economy,
accounting for about 30 percent of GDP, 35 percent of employment, 40 percent
of capital formation and about 90 percent of merchandise exports. The public
sector controls capital-intensive industries (i.e., steel, oil refining,
chemicals, fertilizer, pulp and paper, cement and ship building), accounting
now for about 35 percent of the manufacturing capital stock. These indus-
tries are primarily oriented towards domestic markets. In addition, the
Government retains varying interests in over 1,300 enterprises (mixed sector)
whose shares are owned by banks that were nationalized after the revolution
of 1974. The private sector dominates light industries, including textiles,
food processing, transport equipment (other than shipbuilding), electrical-
mechanical products, wood and cork.  Small and medium enterprises (SMI) are
predominant in almost all of these light industries.
24.       The performance of the industrial sector during 1980-1981 has been
mixed and disappointing when compared with the relatively strong performance
in the late 1970s. In 1981, industrial production rose by only about 2 per-
cent and production in many of the main exporting subsectors, such as tex-
tiles and electrical-mechanical industries, actually declined; output was only
sustained by the stronger performance in subsectors more reliant on domestic
elements of demand. Even though there were small improvements in productivity
in 1980, that situation was reversed in 1981 and the overall productivity
position remains weak. While there is consiaerable export potential within
the industrial sector, substantial increases in productivity levels will need
to be made before Portuguese industries can maximize the potential benefit of
EEC accession, and more importantly, counter the threat of increased import-
penetration from the new EEC partners as well as non-EEC countries. The
experience of 1981 suggests that this would not be realized until a number of
serious overall constraints and issues are resolved.
Development Constraints
25.       The industrial sector faces several fundamental structural pro-
blems.  Productivity is low, partly due to overmanning caused by restrictive
labor laws introduced after the revolution and partly due to the fact that
companies in general have failed to modernize their production, financial and
management practices. Labor productivity is relatively low in the SMI sector
compared with that of Portuguese industry as a whole and considerably lower
than in most other European countries. Output needs to be restructured to
better address rapidly changing markets, through greater product innovation
and specialization aimed at larger volumes, better quality and quality con-
trol, and lower costs.  Consolidation of companies, particularly in tradi-
tional subsectors, is overdue to phase out uneconomic production lines or
units and to integrate capacity into more efficient scales of operation.



- 9 -
26.       The financial structure of most enterprises is weak, depending on
high levels of short-term debt and small equity bases. These two factors
make profitability quite vulnerable to changes in factor and market prices,
especially in periods of high nominal interest rates. Many family-run enter-
prises appear unwilling to increase their own equity positions due to rela-
tively low returns compared to those currently available elsewhere, the biases
in the tax structure against equity holdings, and to lingering political
uncertainties. On the other hand, they are also unwilling to open their com-
panies to participation by others or long-term debt for fear of losing con-
trol. This bias is exacerbated by the currently lower interest rate for
short-term borrowings and the preference of banks for short maturity loans to
minimize risks.
27.       Economic_policy since 1977 has been progressively adjusted to
reflect the long-term needs of an export-based industrial sector. Signifi-
cant downward tariff adjustments and exchange rate realignments have been
particularly important in this respect. In addition, selective industrial
policy interventions in certain sectors (e.g., automobiles) have clearly been
in the direction necessary to produce a more competitive and internationally
oriented industry. However, the fact remains, in spite of changes supported
by the present Government, the general philosophy underlying the conduct of
industrial policy continues to involve a strongly interventionist Government
role in some areas. This is exemplified by the tight government controls on
pricing and investment in public enterprises (now a very significant part of
the industrial sector); by the continued restrictiveness of non-tariff bar-
riers to trade (admittedly justified to a degree by similar measures in some
trading partners); by the pervasiveness of price, including rent, controls
and by numerous other factors. At the same time the Government has been mak-
ing a significant effort to limit public involvement through direct invest-
ment. For the most part this approach is accepted and even encouraged, by a
conservative private industrial sector.
28.       Against this background, the Government's industrial strategy
should be based on two approaches: (i) to reorganize, rehabilitate and
modernize existing enterprises in selected traditional export industries
(textiles, engineering, pulp and paper, and foods being of high priority);
and (ii) to promote new investments in innovative industrial areas. The
global objectives should be to increase exports and to create new, viable
employment (in part to help absorb the labor released from the reorganization
of existing enterprises). Growth in the sector, however, will have to be
judiciously targetted in order to maintain a sound macroeconomic position
(see paras. 7-9 above).
FinancialSystem
29.       For a country of Portugal's state of development, the number and
variety of financial institutions is limited. The principal institutions of
the Portuguese financial system are the Central Bank--Banco de Portugal
(BdP); Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD), the major savings institution; nine
commercial banks; Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN), the major development



- 10 -
bank; and two investment companies. Leasing has just been introduced and
there are some efforts to revitalize the stock market. There are also about
200 minor savings and cooperative banks, and three foreign banks whose acti-
vities are concentrated on foreign trade operations. All private Portuguese
financial institutions, with the exception of the small savings banks, were
nationalized in 1975; the nationalized banks have retained considerable
operational autonomy. CGD has always been public. The recent revision to
the Constitution is intended to reopen parts of the financial sector to the
private sector (both local and foreign).
30.       The major sources of loan financing for SMIs are the commercial
banks and CGD. At present, equity financing is not available from commercial
banks. About two-thirds of the industrial credit portfolio of the commercial
banks (including CGD) is invested in short-term loans, 16 percent in medium-
term, and 24 percent in long-term. Although industrial term lending has been
expanding rapidly since 1977 (when commercial banks were allowed to lend at
terms greater than one year), the concentration on short-term operations con-
tinues. A large portion of these short-term credits are regularly rolled
over. The experience gained under the First SMI project (Loan No. 1701-PO)
indicates that, while commercial banks have limited project appraisal cap-
ability, there have been considerable improvements in the recent past, par-
ticularly in the aspects of financial and economic evaluation.
31.       All interest rates in Portugal are subject to a floating rate which
is established by the Central Bank. During the last five years, interest
rates have been increased steadily, raising the maximum deposit rates from 13
percent to 24 percent and the maximum lending rate from 14.75 percent to 26
percent. Long-term lending rates are currently positive in real terms and
are expected to remain so. An important consideration in setting the lending
rates is the need for deposit interest rates to remain competitive in order
to ensure the steady inflow of deposits from emigrant workers, a major source
of foreign exchange for the country.
32.       In order to encourage selected industrial investments, the Govern-
ment put in place in 1980 an incentive system relying heavily on interest rate
subsidies. A project qualifying for the maximum subsidy would receive an
average of 6 percent per annum interest rate rebate over five years. The
procedures for implementing this scheme have been cumbersome and no subsidy
has been paid, although about 1,100 have been approved. We have recommended
to the Government that: (i) the scope of the subsidies be more narrowly and
explicitly focussed; (ii) their magnitude be reduced; and (iii) the pro-
cedures simplified in order to give greater and clearer emphasis to promotion
of investments for restructuring and modernization, as well as for setting up
innovative production lines to diversify Portugal's product mix. The Govern-
ment has agreed in principle to these suggestions and is working on simpli-
fied procedures for the scheme. A revised system is expected to be in place
shortly. We propose to continue these discussions on ways to make the incen-
tive programs as cost effective and efficient as possible through the proposed
project (para. 59) as well as through other possible future projects in the
textiles, electro-mechanical, and other industrial sectors.



- 11 -
33.       In the face of large public deficits and the ambitious public
enterprise investment programs, the BdP has used several tools in order to
control the expansion of credit. Monetary policy to that effect continues to
rely mainly on credit ceilins for individual banks, although interest rates
have been steadily increased as well. The credit ceiling system now applies
a qualitative, as well as a quantitative, approach with the various forms of
resource mobilization and loans carrying different weights, depending on their
priority (e.g., mobilizing remittances as compared to regular short-term time
deposits, or loans for investment compared to trade). A special incentive is
also applied for the utilization of the refinance facility under the Bank-
financed First SMI project (Loan No. 1701-PO) and the Agriculture and
Fisheries Credit project (Loan No. 1603-PO).
The Small and Medium Industry (SMI) Sector
34.       In Portugal, the SMI sector is defined as those enterprises employ-
ing less than 400 workers and having annual sales not exceeding Esc. 250 mil-
lion (about $3 million equivalent). An average SMI employs about 30 workers
and is typically run as a family enterprise. SMIs account for over two-
thirds of the number of manufacturing enterprises in the country, over 60
percent of manufacturing employment, value-added, and output, and about 48
percent of fixed capital formation. More than 75 percent of all SMIs operate
in four subsectors--food, wood products, textiles, and electrical-mechanical
products. SMIs are predominant in export-oriented industries (e.g., cloth-
ing, knitwear, furniture, seafood) and in products where proximity to local
markets is important (e.g., building materials, bakeries, slaughterhouses).
Like that of heavy industry, the geographical distribution of SMIs is concen-
trated in four urban centers.
35.       SMIs have fared quite well during the past five years--the number
of SMIs successfully engaged in exporting has increased substantially; growth
of SMI output, employment and capital stock has been fairly good and in line
with that of industry as a whole; and capacity utilization has improved
markedly. Production has increased dramatically in non-traditional sectors
(e.g., ceramics, processed timber, and hollow glass) and in sectors with
strong export demand; the more traditional subsectors, such as food process-
ing, have declined due to inadequate raw materials, and their uneven quality
and high cost. Two of the largest subsectors in which SMIs are dominant
(textiles and electrical-mechanical products, which together account for over
40 percent of all manufacturing value-added and employment) have been ad-
versely affected by the considerable fluctuations in the world markets. SMI
performance in terms of productivity continues to be a problem as their com-
petitive advantage is based mostly on low labor costs rather than on high
efficiency and quality in production.
Assistance for the SMIs
36.       The principal source of technical assistance to the SMI sector is
the Institute for the Support of Small and Medium Industries (IAPMEI), which
was established in 1975 under the auspices of the Ministry of Industry,



- 12 -
Energy and Exports (MIEE). IAPMEI's services can be grouped as follows:
(i) structural support to existing SMIs through a comprehensive program of
problem diagnoses and technical assistance; (ii) promotion of new enterprises
and new product lines; (iii) promotion of cooperation between SMIs and larger
industries in the same and complementary industries; (iv) development of
institutions that can provide technical assistance, such as subsector techni-
cal institutes, subcontracting and accounting centers; and (v) training of
management and labor through formal courses, study tours, and dissemination
of technical information. IAPMEI is playing a major role in the implementa-
tion of the First SMI project, and over the 1979-81 period, the total number
of SMIs registered and receiving services from IAPMEI amounted to some 11,000,
or about 70 percent of all SMIs in the country.
37.       IAPMEI currently has a staff of 248, including 122 technical pro-
fessional and 50 technical assistants. Overall policy direction is set by a
board of directors, consisting of a president, three vice presidents and a
consultation council, with representatives from the Ministries of Finance and
Planning and of Labor, MIEE and BdP. About two-thirds of the professional
staff is distributed among seven field offices in three broad regions, and
are charged with delivering technical assistance and also appraising subpro-
jects for refinance under the First SMI project with investment costs below
$600,000 equivalent. The Government is planning to further decentralize
IAPMEI's operational decision-making process by expanding the powers of the
regional offices and focussing the central office functions on policy formu-
lation, coordination, and quality control of the regional activities. This
regionalization should increase the effectiveness of IAPMEI's staff because
of greater autonomy in the organization of staff and work programs, proximity
to SMIs, and more expeditious management decisions.
38.       The focus of IAPMEI's assistance has been on the problems of indi-
vidual enterprises. These services are provided primarily by IAPMEI's own
staff. When dealing with specialized issues, IAPMEI has made arrangements
with other specialized Government agencies and academic institutions, and also
brought in consultants to complement its own staff capabilities. Recourse to
external specialized consulting services for on-the-spot or short-term diag-
nostic services has been limited in the past due to budget constraints; the
cost of hiring outside experts for long-term assistance is currently shared
75:25 between IAPMEI and the recipient SMI enterprise.
39.       The scope and coverage of IAPMEI's services are being substantially
increased through the implementation of a special SMI assistance program
financed in part by a $10 million equivalent grant from the EEC. The pro-
gram, which was launched in 1981, is designed to prepare and assist eligible
existing SMIs to face the competitive pressures and prospects of EEC entry.
This program complements some of IAPMEI's ongoing programs and provides
financing for: (i) long-term support to 120 SMIs through comprehensive tech-
nical assistance and investment subsidies (up to 25 percent of investment
costs for eligible enterprises); (ii) consultancy services for problem diag-
nosis and implementation of corrective actions in 400 enterprises;
(iii) establishment of four technical centers (electronics, metrology, meat



- 13 -
and wood), expansion of four existing institutes (ceramics, leather, foundry,
and welding) and further development of the accounting, subcontracting and
audio-visual centers; and (iv) training. IAPMEI has identified over 450 SMIs
for possible assistance under (i) and (ii) and selected seven consulting com-
panies to work with its staff on the diagnostic phases. Work is well under-
way on the establishment and expansion of the technical, accounting and audio-
visual centers. The program is expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
40.       Since its creation, IAPMEI has made impressive progress towards
designing and implementing effective programs of assistance to the SMI seg-
ment of the manufacturing sector. In addition to steadily increasing its own
activities, its collaborative actions for the development of technical assis-
tance institutions and training programs have enabled IAPMEI to disseminate
technical assistance to a larger number of SMIs in a more cost-effective man-
ner. Despite the impressive performance, IAPMEI is experiencing some over-
extension of its staff and, as a result, some weaknesses in appraisal and
project supervision have been detected. IAPMEI is planning to rationalize
its activities and reorient them to rely more on consulting firms for
delivery of technical services and focussing its own staff on policy matters
and monitoring of quality and progress of such programs. As part of this
shift of approach, IAPMEI is working with the commercial banks to formulate
better ways of providing finance to the SMI enterprise for the needed tech-
nical services and linking the availability of investment finance to the
implementation of the technical assistance program.
41.       IAPMEI also provides very important financial services to SMIs
through its management of the Government's credit guarantee scheme for com-
mercial bank loans to SMIs. This guarantee fund, recently increased to $50
million, is financed out the Government's budget and charges a guarantee fee
of 0.5 percent per annum. As of May 1982, guarantees amounted to about $38
million and covered about 1,500 SMI operations; total financing from the
banking system to these operations amounted to about $104 million. Guaran-
tees representing about 25 percent of the total funds guaranteed have expired
without recourse to the guarantor, 5 percent have required payment by the
guarantor, and 70 percent are still in force.
Bank Operations in the Sector
42.       The First SMI loan of $45 million was made in 1979, and included
three main components: (i) a line of credit of $33 million for SMI refinanc-
ing; (ii) $9.5 million loan for industrial estates; and (iii) technological
assistance and studies. After some initial administrative delays relating to
new channeling mechanisms and the credit ceiling incentive system, the pro-
ject is now proceeding satisfactorily. As noted above, IAPMEI has made
impressive progress in promoting the First SMI project and all the commercial
banks have participated in the project and benefitted from the assistance in
developing improved project appraisal techniques for SMI investments. As of
January 31, 1983, $36.6 million of the line of credit had been committed.
The technical assistance program and studies, with the exception of the
foreign trade study, are producing good results. The industrial estates pro-



- 14 -
gram is moving much more slowly than anticipated at appraisal and about $5
million of the original loan has been reallocated to the SMI line of credit.
IAPMEI is currently reviewing projects with financing requirements which
would fully utilize the balance of the revised SMI I line of credit by June
1983. In terms of elapsed project implementation time, all the SMI I line of
credit is expected to be committed in a period of time that is about four
months less than the commitment period estimated at appraisal, a noteworthy
achievement, given the 26 percent increase in the amount in escudo terms now
allocated to the SMI line of credit (due in part to reallocations and to
devaluations of the escudo vis a vis the dollar) and the difficult economic
conditions in Portugal in recent years.
43.       The Bank's first loan to the industrial sector was the First Banco
de Fomento Nacional (BFN) loan (Loan No. 1432-PO, $50 million in 1978), to
support investments in larger-scale enterprises. This loan was fully dis-
bursed (after a small cancellation due to adjustments in subproject amounts)
and a Second BFN loan for $100 million was approved in 1981. Due to the
general slowdown in the economy, which seems to have affected larger-scale
enterprises to a greater extend than the SMIs, commitments under the second
BFN loan have moved slowly. Nearly 50 percent of BFN's portfolio of invest-
ments is now affected by arrears, mainly due to old outstanding loans to weak
public enterprises and investments in the former colonies. BFN and the
Government are working on a plan to rationalize the accumulating arrears from
the public sector. Other investments in the industrial sector are the Fer-
tilizer Modernization project (Loan No. 1649-PO, $58 million) in 1979 and the
First Mechanical Industries project (Loan Nos. 1874-PO and 1875-PO, $44 mil-
lion); construction for both projects is roughly on schedule. The IFC has
made two investments in the financial sector, an investment company and a
leasing company, and work is underway on a number of investment proposals in
the industrial sector.
44.       The European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Free Trade
Association (EFTA) have provided investment funds for onlending to SMI enter-
prises in Portugal. The EFTA line was fully utilized by end-January 1981,
and the EIB lines, aimed mainly at the larger SMI size ranges, have comple-
mented well the Bank-financed First SMI project. EIB's subproject eligibi-
lity criteria and appraisal standards are also in line with the ones applied
under the First SMI project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project was prepared as a followup to the line of
credit component within the First SMI project. The project was appraised in
late September 1982, and is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Portugal - Second Small and Medium Industry Development Project"
(No. 4185-PO, dated March 11, 1983), which is being distributed separately.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from February 28 to March 4,
1983. The delegation was led by Dra. Isabel Mota, Ministry of Finance and
Planning. The main features are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and
in Annex III.



- 15 -
Pro.ject Objectives
46.       The Government's strategy for industrial growth and employment and
forthcoming EEC accession assigns high priority to the development of the SMI
sector. The major objective of the proposed project is to help implement
this strategy by supporting the investment and rehabilitation programs of
Portuguese SMIs through a program of policy dialogue and financial and tech-
nical assistance. By improving their efficiency and diversifying their pro-
duct structure, Portuguese SMIs should be better prepared to face the pro-
blems and prospects of Portugal's accession to the EEC.  The project also
seeks to ensure the long-term viability of existing SMI employment and to
create new jobs at moderate capital costs per job. A third objective is to
continue the ongoing programs to strengthen the appraisal and support capa-
cities of financial and technical assistance institutions serving SMIs.
Line of Credit
47.       The project would provide a line of credit of $40 million to
refinance the foreign exchange cost of investment subloans made by the parti-
cipating commercial banks to about 100-150 eligible SMI enterprises. The
loan amount was calculated to reflect the estimated promotion capacity of
IAPMEI over about a three-year period, following the full commitment of the
funds available under the First SMI loan. We propose to continue utilizing
the channeling mechanism which is operating successfully under the First SMI
loan, with the proposed second loan to be made to the Government and the pro-
ceeds of the loan managed in a special SMI refinancing account by the BdP
under an Agency Agreement between the Government and BdP. It would be a con-
dition of loan effectiveness that: (i) the Agency Agreement be executed;
(ii) at least three financial institutions, accounting for about 40 percent
of the assets of the total commercial banking system, sign agreements with
BdP and IAPMEI, satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the agreed responsibili-
ties and procedures for the project (paras. 51-56), and (iii) a special
account be opened by BdP for the proposed credit line (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(a), (b) and (c)).
48.       Terms and Conditions.  The proposed Bank loan would be available to
the Government for 15 years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. Repayment would be made according to a fixed amorti-
zation schedule.  BdP would be paid a fee of 0.75 percent per annum on the
amount of the loan withdrawn and outstanding for managing this account.
IAPMEI would be paid a fee of 1.5 percent per annum on the amount of the loan
withdrawn and outstanding for its services in promoting and assisting the SMI
investments. The participating banks would receive a spread of 3.5 percent
on the eligible subloans they refinance under the line of credit. The
balance of the differential between the Bank's variable interest rate and the
Portuguese onlending rate, currently estimated at about 9 percent, would be
paid to the Treasury to cover the foreign exchange and interest risk on the
repayment of the Bank loan. Participating banks could refinance from the
line of credit up to 65 percent of the total investment cost of each sub-
project and also be eligible to apply to the SMI credit guarantee facility



- 16 -
(para. 41). The current credit ceiling incentive measure, whereby a partici-
pating bank's monthly credit ceiling is adjusted by the amount of the line of
credit it utilized, would be continued (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
49.       At least 25 percent of the total investment cost of new subprojects
would be in equity form; for expansion subprojects, the owner's equity should
also be at least 25 percent of the total net value of its fixed assets after
completion of the subproject, including land. Credit to eligible SMI enter-
prises would be with maturities set in line with the economic life of the
equipment to be financed, but in no case exceeding 12 years, including three
years of grace; based on the experience of the first project, average matu-
rity is expected to be 5-7 years, including one year of grace. The SMI
enterprise would pay the floating interest rate applicable to similar term
loans in escudos (currently 26 percent for long-term loans) and would be eli-
gible to receive the investment incentives granted by the Government. This
final lending rate will be reviewed periodically, with the aim of maintaining
positive real interest rates.
50.       Investment eligibility criteria (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2,
Part 2) would be aligned to the Portuguese definition of SMIs (para. 34), but
with total investment cost (including permanent working capital and contin-
gencies, but excluding land) not to exceed Esc. 95 million (about $1 million
equivalent) in October 1982 prices, to ensure focus on the smaller and more
labor-intensive SMIs.   A second criteria for expansion and modernization
projects would be to limit the total of net fixed assets after project reali-
zation to no more than Esc. 245 million (about $2.7 million equivalent) and
investment costs per job for all investments would not exceed Esc. 3 million
(about $34,000 equivalent) for all subprojects, except those intended solely
for quality control or energy conservation and diversification. These limits
would be indexed in escudo terms to changes in the domestic wholesale price
index for industrial products. The new limits represent a modest increase in
the scale from those agreed under the First SMI loan, which is justified by
the changes in the investment environment since 1979. The size limit for
subprojects solely aimed at energy conservation would be set at Esc. 50 mil-
lion, to be consistent with the eligibility criteria for SMI leasing financed
under the Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification project (Loan
No. 2168-PO).
51.       Subproject Appraisal, Review and Approval.  The participating banks
would identify subprojects, often with IAPMEI's assistance, and appraise them
in line with their own standard procedures to establish their technical,
financial, and in some cases, economic feasibility. The minimum acceptable
financial rate of return would be 12 percent; investments exceeding Esc. 60
million (about $680,000 equivalent) in October 1982 prices would need to
demonstrate an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent as well. For
investments aimed solely at energy conservation and diversification, a simple
payback period calculation would be used with a maximum payback period of six
years (depending upon the type of equipment) calculated on the basis of the
equipment cost and annual energy savings valued at the cif import price of
petroleum.



- 17 -
52.       IAPMEI would participate in the identification of eligible subpro-
jects and assist both the SMI enterprises to develop suitable investment pro-
grams and the commercial banks to appraise them. Given the good progress in
establishing IAPMEI's appraisal review system, the Bank's appraisal review
procedures would be simplified from those designed under the First SMI pro-
ject. For free limit subprojects (those estimated to cost less than Esc. 43
million, in October 1982 prices, or about $485,000 equivalent), IAPMEI would
furnish to the Bank a review note, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, stat-
ing, among others, that the subproject and subloan meet the agreed eligibi-
lity and appraisal criteria (Draft Loan Agreement, Sections 2.02(a)(ii)
and (b) and 2.03(b)). Subprojects estimated to cost Esc. 43 million or more
would be approved by the Bank. When presenting a subproject for approval,
IAPMEI's central service for coordination and quality control would furnish
to the Bank a review note, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, and such other
information as the Bank may request (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(a)).
As part of the regular supervision of the project, the Bank would select from
IAPMEI's available pipeline a sample of at least six subprojects and examine
ex ante the technical, financial and economic appraisal aspects with relevant
staff from IAPMEI and the sponsoring bank; the full appraisal report would
then be completed and translated into English, together with an assessment
from IAPMEI's central service responsible for coordination and quality con-
trol, for review and final approval by the Bank. This procedure would result
in an indepth review by the Bank of a minimum of about 20 percent of the num-
ber of subloans and 25 percent of the amount. The terminal date for approval
of subprojects would be September 30, 1986.
53.       Supervision.  IAPMEI would prepare for the Bank an annual supervi-
sion report covering an agreed sample of approved SMI subprojects (Draft Pro-
ject Agreement, Section 2.02(a)(ii)). This report would contain: (i) an
analysis by IAPMEI of the progress of implementation for these subprojects
compared to the original schedule as proposed in the subproject appraisal
reports; (ii) a status report by BdP on subloan disbursements; and (iii) re-
ports by the sponsoring banks on the subborrowers' repayment performance. In
addition, IAPMEI, in cooperation with BdP, would prepare a short simplified
quarterly progress report presenting updates on the total commitments (net of
any adjustments in subproject amounts) and disbursements under the credit
line and the project completion report (Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02
(b) and (c)).
54.       Procurement.  Given the mix of typical SMI investment components
(equipment, consultant services, civil works, permanent working capital), the
small size of the maximum eligible investment subproject ($1 million equiva-
lent) and the expected small average investment size ($562,000), interna-
tional competitive bidding is not appropriate. The PBIs, through their sub-
loan agreements with SMIs would require that the goods and services to be
refinanced shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, and efficiency and relia-
bility of the goods and the availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts.



- 18 -
55.       Disbursements.  As was the case for the First SMI project, BdP
would continue to provide refinance to the participating banks for loans made
to eligible SMI enterprises. BdP would receive from the participating banks
and compile full documentation of the expenses actually incurred for each
subproject. BdP would then prepare reimbursement requests from the Bank loan
in certified monthly statements of expenditure. The closing date for with-
drawals from the loan account would be March 31, 1989.
56.       Audit.  The annual project and subproject records and accounts
maintained by BdP would be audited each year by independent auditors satis-
factory to the Bank; a copy of such audit, including a statement certifying
the validity of the loan withdrawal requests made by BdP on the basis of
statements of expenditure, would be prepared and furnished to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. We have reviewed the legal pro-
visions establishing BdP's Audit Council and consider it satisfactory for
these purposes.
Technical Assistance
57.       IAPMEI's ongoing work programs (paras. 36-39 above) would be con-
tinued and strengthened under the proposed project, with highest priority
assigned to completing the technical assistance actions initiated under the
EEC grant. We have reviewed IAPMEI's 1983 work program orientations and
found them satisfactory. Until completion of the project, IAPMEI will
exchange views with the Bank on its annual work program for the forthcoming
year (Draft Project Agreement, Section 3.04(a)). This review would be guided
by the following principles: (i) use more external technical consulting ser-
vices; (ii) establish a system of user charges for such services; (iii) con-
solidate the action programs of the various service teams; and (iv) streng-
then IAPMEI's monitoring activities. Because of the importance of the con-
sultant services in IAPMEI's activities, IAPMEI would maintain its program
for specialized consulting services for long-term technical assistance to
enterprises at least at the 1983 level until the completion of the project
(Draft Project Agreement, Section 3.04(c)).
58.       IAPMEI would specifically assess the need for individual company-
specific technical assistance during its review of each subproject appraisal.
IAPMEI would then inform the SMI enterprise and the sponsoring bank of its
assessment and refer the SMI enterprise to either IAPMEI's own programs or to
a competent external agency or individual expert. Should the sponsoring bank
find that these technical assistance actions are essential for the subpro-
ject, an appropriate technical assistance program may be made a condition of
the subloan.
Investment Incentive Policies
59.       Effective investment incentive programs are an important element in
the policy framework needed to promote structural transformation and moderni-
zation of all Portuguese industries, including SMIs. Periodic working con-
sultations between the Government and the Bank would be arranged to continue



- 19 -
the joint review, including examination of experience gained from the exist-
ing scheme, discussing changes or new measures to improve the Government's
industrial incentive framework and to ensure appropriate coordination between
these general incentives and other more specific measures which may be
established for subsector-specific restructuring programs. This dialogue
would be pursued through the supervision of the proposed project as well as
in our discussions with the Government about the preparations for restructur-
ing projects in the textiles, electro-mechanical and other industries and in
our general economic work.
Risks
60.       Despite the fact that the loan amount was quite conservatively
estimated, the main risk facing the proposed project is that of slow utiliza-
tion of the line of credit. Appropriate incentives have been included to
maintain the interest by the participating banks through an attractive spread,
special access to the credit ceiling incentive scheme, and the streamlining
of subloan review, approval and disbursement procedures. On the other hand,
the overall investment climate may be worse than expected and demand for SMI
investment finance depressed. The improvements in the investment incentive
programs expected to be formulated over the next two years should help insu-
late the high priority investments from this general risk.
61.       Another risk relates to the possible lower than expected quality of
subprojects after implementation. Although it is still too early to assess
conclusive results from the First SMI project on this issue, care has been
taken in the design of this second project to strengthen appraisal and fol-
lowup capabilities. This risk should be also limited by the linking of
financial assistance to the implementation of specific technical assistance
actions when they are deemed essential to the success of the subproject. In
conclusion, these risks are well worth taking given the importance of the SMI
investment and rehabilitation programs.
Benefits
62.       The institution-building effort initiated with the First SMI pro-
ject for improved financial and technical services for SMIs would be con-
tinued. The Portuguese banking system would be encouraged, not only to pro-
vide adequate financing for SMIs, but also to develop their capacity for pro-
viding long-term financing based on project analysis and appropriate follow-
up. The project also provides the opportunity to work with the Government to
formulate needed improvements to its industrial investment incentive frame-
work.
63.       The proposed project is expected to refinance subloans to 100-150
SMI enterprises, creating about between 1,900-2,600 jobs. The subprojects
would be divided about equally between investments for structural transforma-
tions and modernizations and those for creation of new enterprises. All sub-
projects would meet a minimum 12 percent financial rate of return and the
larger ones would need to demonstrate a minimum economic return of 12 percent
as well.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and IAPNEI, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that: (i) the
Agency Agreement between the Government and BdP be executed; (ii) at least
three financial institutions, accounting for about 40 percent of the assets
of the total commercial banking system, sign agreements with BdP and IAPMEI,
satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the agreed responsibilities and pro-
cedures for the project; and (iii) a special account be opened by BdP for the
proposed credit line (Draft Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01(a), (b) and (c)).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 21, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              92.1                                 MOST RECENT               MIDDLE ISCQIE             INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      40.8               1960  /b    1970 Ab ESTIMATE Lb                   EUROPE             MARRET ECONKIIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   360.0       970.0    2370.0                    2323.9                  10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILO6RAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      460.1        921.5    1443.4                   2107.4                    7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8826.0        8628.0    9836.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          26.2      30.6                      47.9                     78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        11.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          13.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IN.                        95.9         93.7     106.1                     83.3                     138.5
PER SQ. 104. AGRICULTURAL LAND    182.4        200.7     239.2                    155.4                     509.7
POPULATION ARE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2         28.4      26.7                     31.1                      22.7
15-64 YES.                          62.9         61.9      63.2                     61.2                     65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0          9.7      10.1                       7.7                     11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.5/c       -0.2/c     1.3                       1.6                      0.8
URBAN                               2.1          1.3       2.9                       3.5                      1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.1         19.9       18.2                     23.6                     14.5
CRVDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       7.5          9.9        9.6                      9.2                      9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6          1.5        1.2                      1.6                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71100)           92.0        105.0      77.0                    116.0                     111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   118.4        134.7     127.1/d                  125.1                    130.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           80.1         92.8      84.1/d                   92.7                     97.1
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        33.0         40.5      38.6/d                   35.9                     61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       9.0          4.3       2.3                       9.2                      0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    63.3          67.1      70.8                     67.6                      73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            81.0         52.7      35.1                     65.1                      11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              28.9         34.5      65.O/e
URBAN                              82.1           ..      90.0/e
RURAL                              14.4           ..      56.0/e
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1247.5       1057.9     698.0/d                 1105.4                    620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1421.8/f    1035.0      466.9/d                  634.4                    246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             182.9           ..     187.4/d                  286.8                     122.0
URBAN                             70.01f       70.8      80.9/d                  192.0                     140.6
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         9.8      13.5/d                   20.0                       17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEPOLD
TOTAL                               3.9          3.7
URBAN                               4.0           ..
RURAL                               3.9           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1          0.8
URBAN                               1.0           ..
RURAL                               1.1           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2
URBAN                              88.5           ..
RURAL                              27.4           ..



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  2  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/GES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME              INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE               MARRET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                    ..         98.0     117.0/d                  102.9                      101.7
MALE                     ..         99.0     119.0/d                  107.1                      103.9
FEMALE                   ..         96.0     115.0/d                   99.0                     103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..         57.0      55.0/d                   60.2                      88.4
MALE                     ..         63.0      54.0/d                    66.4                      83.4
FEMALE                   ..        51.0       56.O0d                   54.0                      84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  46.4            33.6       16.5/d                   31.6                      18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0          33.6      19.1/d                   25.8                      20.3
SECONDARY                            19.0         16.6      22.9Id                   22.2                      16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          62.0         71.0         ..                     75.9                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.9         63.9     108.3/S                   51.0                     338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          96.1        158.6      161.2                    157.2                    1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.2         45.1      123.1                    123.7                     403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TFOUSAND POPULATION                    63.2         86.1      62.7                    112.3                     331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0             3.0        3.5                      4.0                       3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3397.3       3386.7    3789.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.9        24.8       25.9                     36.6                      36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               44.1          33.3      24.0                     38.7                       6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.0         33.2       36.2                     25.9                      37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  38.5         39.3       38.5                     44.5                      45.4
MALE                                   66.0         62.3       60.3                     56.3                      58.9
FEMALE                                 13.2         18.5       19.0                    32.8                      32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.0        1.0                      0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.1/h,i  56.3/h,i                     ..                      43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          6.2h.i   7.3/h i                     ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        20.6_/hi  21.47                        ..                      16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                 ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     480.0/d                     ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..      480.0/d                  406.6.
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..                       ..                        ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /I  1975; /f 1962;
I_j 1976; /h Highest 25% and lowest 25% and 50% of households;  Li 1968;  /4 1973-74.
* The 1981 World Bank Atlas shows 1980 GNP per capita of $2350.
August 1982



- 23 -                                                                       ANNEX I
toll 1110       Or to 0001.1   m                                                         Page   3   of   5
ottootely  .oseraha atocte  f th. 1-k0 If aCederdt.td taftlt.icet act tI.tt. .4.1 by diffr-ct ... tytet La.oloto   h  dIt.   ThM. t   t. tt
thI-.,ocfi  ataoth   afte. af uNelttat              I... icitaacd,  c  tcccta   ati   ae  dittfateco    bef-          -11olc.0
Tercaca r-poa  r.r  11) Lb. rot  0041e  efrect at the cotaL     -aeaY ac   11) a  ater  *t cth aortiit liLcIc  -tarat  Ln-    b-t ate                        4-tttrt
of te etb.ftt Loaa? leLca  ILt 9lih Ico-a   01l faaaa-a,  tA-,*  ha. `mUddl fe-o  torh littLe OttO cot)d. Zt.." 10 IhoaL  Iaa.   f t--a-t
tao to-eoI.ttotaflIItlac.  Ia  b. taatta t tan    f.t.  lb.   - ..t a  anaPl.4ttlo  caight.d arllti.tt  note f.t ttt)  lodlotte   t  ohac  only  bl.
caeytl   o   he --ta . Lat tt  sae' hoc data tot Itha   ahatt    l    the  aata    f oeaafI    ce  the  elott                caecotteotlb  i?o  data
ca         - tttaLo. Lrtasatth   atit I  rltt   vtgta   ceitatat  ete,   ht  ttotatal  ocafo  La osrtf eL  h. toa  of
Wto Itdhtta  at a tIm     ac the L.taaty "W  arac   tte
by t  ttt   pn hyaLt-ciao.        Lato l -o.oa  P-Loittr  prirto.ily tL--
it   O1*)0lTO     liNP yet ..P1a. aeticaa at- - -a-- -arat paLo... I001-                    011tt   t   o    oldt   ot   oa.<,Oav    eooaheaIlth
_oaetattt   a  ato   chabt  at hand Bace ALlot (107-00 boat,)  19tO.                      ato  tttL  _lenao  o  taattt   tf                by a PhY.t. Uot <hot bya
tattoo art 9-arda   IaLet- -ttta  atLoo   tlLtc.Fat rttttc-
la!tyOl  5       O lt09a 10c yt  WITA - Otal   -WrcttO   of   --1.tO    ..taty boat               tI.Lldaottte   hottLLtalde loaatcrol.nt  tcLa
ottrtto) IL LLlotaat of otol ayotolcta pta otaia;6140, .911. aft 1~79            t .rotctcI.Latlat  aotl   -a  Itolt-d tole onratoah
fa  hcytaa llttd by It. ttoattr of heft.
totl  aaoaistt ltt- ,t iootAtt) - 40 of 1lo  II 140, 1IWO. oat 1ff                  0O0110G
late.                                                                            ittotot~~~~~t.    lia  oftaocao   Ic-tot  ca hF ahl,,FtLl,oha.  dtod
I .aotosaac   40  1.970, ast IWO tat..                                               rh . heoe 4ttl   arctLiolpoayac..
iooata   Ia o     100  - fatte   eacl.tte  atjttatate  ed 00190fOa at Peo.o-  yet ran  Ia   t oto.  ad  t                                    .a a...t.. cc-erItot
ttail teoct by .ec acd -a  -ad  ahaLa coataL'                   -lty adlttl..rtt-          -,olit.  e ottrtl..  &atilafa actteaotytaa  t-Itta   a
t'a)   . -. arntr  tar  -orelty  tat   oanrl.t af thra  lac-    -tac-_catea    ara
tag lit. -aaatiteY tabIrth  -.tacta  .1.1  --otry'o ocr nayitt  Ico                      000... to El. OtOlt, lorcaLo  taclna)-0thtte   lat tttl 
late, oat fasol   Ife ca_teL.cyattl,a   L70c.  The 7cr.-                                   lotalaidtelilrg  ebb tlotrIot I a 11Ott8 q---ar  at aereaa
stat. I-a  f-oyLtt y rat alma  Ie,titte  le-t. ac-ala  drnf- IL                            of tota.l, orhon. ad t-tl datioa   raptyncrly.
taC,tilIty tt Irta  to l .  Le_1 ad tO-t 14.117 aoaottat  ac-otn-e
loch  -tonrY ic th-  -is.LO     a-t  f than aL,         atlaao  ea-tity                EDtUCATION
toatlaerrcacaltton- lao  etLoe "talerc- thea. L. oA Cr-00  tILo.                        I'taoehaat    toa,cactd laaalaGrae  coral. atit oa  (a.oI
Itt hIat  rot U0 q001 toL.  atadcit-~ rt. td .itta to.  at--oor  o-                                                    ItIeyo   l   te   0O.tlttlet   eprattcfraato
Late   _taaaat.  Thfa I, anbotyc  ala altar 6ellboy tana  to-tle, It                          rt.ayah.tra;toatatoaal    Idla  thiltatn  aeco t-lI
the -yarltoat mal at ontttty-daiot te.,  be  -oh taaoto-aa  tooltttlo tlaot  aeh o."                                                       fpyat-tt   ad  WL        r e
oetLaaf  o tot Oclc ef,he "relotad"    ectrttca  the  aLlo                             01-0  t-e  a.talc  tarbeo  orAttr  thectoo   Lalae
Iathe o... load. ad che eat cf deala  of f-ettllty  .roa   ortlt-  Intottayr chen  -tO.LaIr and fotalt   C-et-ac  aa tOeri-;otd
Y.tttt                       L.r,tnOatf    Ic rtthd - tOt yc.r  h.a  tctiatay y_o.tla             -tta   Petra.otttol           .ttroetaot    anoaac for ao_tl
Ia 00111 bttt-ohet- oroll  of 10 'L It ftt-  of tP; .a..   otaoo....aaer   ectll
ye Ha. it -Od-y-t  oetto  pet sqt,. kilw...10  heOtc  ofGO                                      ...attn . artII ontnttLooea)              ,tos    .too -ito...
ntlrat1010. 1070 ot 1970 4400.                                                       tttloda tc,,i-lal  lfdaoil.o  oc tEctra tehht                    cldtt-
ye  e.tt  toialtarila   Catoa  as abar  to- ttfolott               d                  coy         t O-yo tert  tO _atatay iattOte
oyt10,1070 ad 101  tone                                                            ytlteatte- reoLn -          - tyer ,te   aonry-Tocltatatatrlltt
S.aato   a   .aotor ... .ae-a) - Chtildace 10-li y .r..  cart-le-va 11$-               arleray ae                   i.dceta,  clt Olttd byaatr  oftrItt  On tom
1ate ao   19latf a   aor M740. 1007.   ttfa-h
yooltLc  teai ht.lWVnc) - -ahe   actua  d,reta  Iotec at .orta tort-                 E-LOOtOff'10
tr-d. Otant f?t  (-ar thoted  -  ecllo             tho. rca titotad If alt-yea                  tArt o lo  late that aleit Poaanotelet  aeooo .. tOt    n
,naootLat 100.1910  to  lyA-- tat.,U",, Itery ohio lea
Crt  lmbOa.IayaeLed --     Ehat   deatht. ta  ttaocad          Lf.so-ret           tate  dtLora  -r. heoO-otIantoOttLO              - 001    r.at0  toattate foyat
tOlIo ytte  00,11  fla.-a.aeteacc  rtto.1. 160, 1917. and 1080.                  otooftcatthdleaOa
FcaOlr Olast- -  oer AA.-atoa  ltha_catc  - AceoL   ,e  tIf e-ot-t                           TV OtA-i-aaaIa        - laronat r...tbn .I -)  rVanater  tt -tt-   tt
at btth..tataaLtaoion afer    ...tta   of noteI-  f4.11  ala-a.a  arott-             8-ort a0ltoyatha1t1racatO_oete uI                      ltocr-a  tOOtaon
all erartat caneto can ate grow                                                     1.octa  of'aL,Lett  tot.nneyae'                         ...rdoac        ta
yatltocta  tatoe"'Ill     tty a.cI1L-r rsOetot oaati ea.  It It onttI
FOOD 000 0010111                                                                                  ta htb  ttl.  if Iterey   ft ae   `tt Ii-t A nat.
tot.a  fla  OtasitO  Pa fAta   l0-l                    1.tc  of 7cr toylto e.-tL             citt-   aol  ftaa              ca   tioor                            . aa  o   h   oia  tf
pmeottoeof  Il  ea  _odltlaa.              bft,to   acolde  -t mad 0 ctol                    tltat  eadt    g ta toohc  ot Y-   loto  otttlstoOt-it cOntes
Iao   octoye.. bead.C..4laedata  o-.  prLeey S..dt 10.,. ecatae                       l  catit ont-
-eao    o  rec)  hittb ore otftL.a cd m-.tle ertaera   Ic.s.. to l..a
asaLaal 4aaa~  oretoararlo  atchct 1t149  107. ar  178  tsta.              Total  .ar Fao   to.tna      oatolyota  aarc-r  ittlodi
fat 00.04 conty ot  ttoLoi  dtiarter  ofra -rasat  - Caaaaod fre                        ata  ftsaot  otL,Ot  ho InldL   osaoc.o.toc   t.
a-tataaerlcoa   r  fon  sayia  attal  to eaoa, ot-  ,oiaooct. a,,la   foi  c                                                      Oailii_ar  Ic  _oyta  -OatOi    r
ardty.  Aaatl1.OoohLaooctcfaoo   tttO, lagara. Lota                                                          MO ctta t10. 1070 -ac 019  tat.,
tpLAM a  toa    .o tta It. t   "VyILca. an1oda oa l tat  .-..cet.'ci  (aercat) - I.nalaa   atct  ao.ta    of tota  ithet tt-t
qatf a  oa  1t fea  aeaatac    d  latc  00 td.trihonla    hacl.c O,aoltt  trattertI                           - taL  ftotI ,       tOt.Lrct    hottec art
ea. -r. e  -aod by  "ab btaat        "iyti o .l ea. ft-  --rta  ett-                     fltitbla  at atanaroto  ed toto  Iohar          IWeec O1   1070 oa  1000 Ott-
oI  b-rIhath -oatderoa   -rlrate   tactr . he   erohtc. act                             Tade-tt  Ica-tet    L. Iae  taroa Lc. at.ceLttac.ccftr
,.=teaoLt lt-cl   1961040. 1MD tA  1977 data                                                    19080  0910 oa  l980 dat,.
Oat -ttc   ..I,l of  -ra.u I ta  ac  "Vy            t.0omf ea. a   t re -cait.              Pcrln..   tn  hArt Inar-a     - rLetl attn  ar       a l-tP.rIII (P."l  or
act gi aarl  of ta   Pet day.  "C tPPly of f,t te tat=   as tha-    ha-                    ontrtitr  root I. ore oottet  to ..o.  Lad.. an  i aI. laer fr   at
q -Otact for .01 otaLah..tttl.    by ItOd aractd  fat dtetcq                                 aecaac    -f oro. elo  ol  tOnIc enolto f all ae."  mWateoaty;
,llrtte  ad '6I  00c  of t-na    -icDt ,a  4? ad  20 te._  of -cei ac                        1760.If 7. eat  M78  dta.  ',ha.. arc itttc  I. MDt'e 0orato~lran    rat
aolc  7-L01, of 000h 10 cre-  ateal ha-relprnI                 Thea attod-                  ralria   c-.. oonor  eftO-allLO    r  Iet tIi    -da.  A
aaoe cc laneoha   hart at 79 Era. of tatat Preacle eat 23 cra  of                       It,  ta-loe  arc f-te  aet  Iato   eronn
talac  aataO.aon toataer ltM lb. acLt, tatasa  by ta  $0 Ith  Third               Et-tl  Oaad-r  ala-tat  of  acaafa  odr LI ca  6) cat  -tr
Varld Poet S.-ty. 190149. 1900 tad 10?77 Iac                                                 te he   aa   OtCtt
tar.. iot.t -toat  ootato.alc  stOl -                         ..,PI,eayt  of road de-
roaft Ir-  aelLat  act roce a       a.        oy  1861-45. 19M ad  10771 taa              508tltValftll
f                                11,110~~~~~cil  CAt 1-01 tah U'!a K-a tbaacet    -- ttt   etaaaneae   nOaoatao   rot   ta                                      1  on Itch.ond 010) - he-i-c  YrrohO
tot )ttO  1-0  erre,  t abtltaa Latht tt  xtart  at  ete t 4-1aladia  Itt-ytta. tOohaco 20 to-cat  tooeat 21 Par..c.  art... r t ecolct.P
teta. dct, UIaL-d ta   lda itblet 1980, 1.100 ca  19t0 taa.                                  o  hoot-holde.
of at  yet thttcd lot. bOraha  1900, 1070 a IM18  dtaf.                                     02.toltt  a rtary Latec  letlI  thet teoc   mot- Ot0  aboo     tot
Oar of  aoylc loteO.  rhag. ot roIll) oret -cccat.  aose                                         Y.. eat..oftard--(.
Laar 9ftlr  ttoe   raa t-.d      taon acar   t      -oarata  hat ato-tat -d             Oe;ett onotttarn  Ittoa  toa-l 11)1  - oaOtf  otonto  tta
eatr tci osIbt froetaaetctbae- e,a.carad. aet cottar  -eIa)a                           total taotecaeay tIroc  lacaL to ot-Ott tif c_ttc  a  octt
Otretotata of  heir rsaactlacaecalstea.I       ra  ac   obi                         f era   t       of thaI ceo"P.,  _ra Ita    tt~u  Icyer  fr_b    her
colootoltcaaa esog attlta reaaLtahla .e_Aaof. LIa  o .  1a tota  agt              atctd  OcO-     dIc hea  Ott bateot  _ins _Iet   lrraa.ot
Or tat heta te crota a ftarrtaaaataaatt   at of It  day  L. f.nthto  the          00'
Lb. o .lagc  ae ~trcytc., tit or foan    t.ea dt. ad t                strata
aybcaaer   YO at          *,-re  n   ea obe  -a of Pit lt tirie   ad- to
U  - fOltpatioc dlcidad by             pm t aroiata  pnOILi-                                              looo.f.tad 0001  ao-         tlOo
Ltaaaa  acfoto   ato-taytLtttn  ttdind   by  loro~f prctittt                                                                                 Cay 10981
tel  et  ema  aaooa  ara".e"'ete  otes.anool  tte   a



- 24-                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars)
Actual                    Annual Growth Rate (W)                                 Share of GDP at
1980                              Actual                       Est.    Market Prices (Current Prices)
($l=Esc. 50.062)    1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981              1960   1970   1975   1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                 24,077        -4.3    6.9    5.6    3.2    4.5    5.5          1.4    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                2,781        -6.5   -1.5  -10.0    4.0    9.0    3.0    -5.0           22.7   16.2   14.2   11.5
Industry                                   8,122        -9.5    4.6    9.5    3.2    5.0    6.0          1.5      34.5   30.4   31.1   33.7
Services                                  11,033        -0.2    9.8    6.0    2.8    3.3    5.8          4.5      35.4   43.2   45.7   45.8
Consumption b/                            21,486         0.3    4.1    2.5    1.1    1.8    4.8           3.5     87.8   83.3   96.2   89.3
Gross Investment                           6,043       -45.3   29.7   34.7   -4.7   -2.1   12.1          6.1      18.5   23.5   16.4   25.1
Exports of GNFS                            6,768       -15.6    0        5.9   14.6   27.3    8.2    -3.4         16.6   23.4   19.7   28.1
Imports of GNFS                           10,228       -25.3    3.4   12.0   -1.8    7.8    9.6          3.8      22.9   30.2   32.2   42.5
Gross National Savings                     1,984       -61.9   58.3   55.3   17.2   27.5    7.7   -16.7           16.7   25.5    3.8    8.2
Prices
Rate of Inflation (Consumer Price Index)              16.1   16.3   26.0   19.3   24.3   17.0    20.0
Exchange Rate c/                                      25.55  30.22  38.28  43.94  48.92  50.06   61.5
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                       Annual Growth Rates at Constant 1970 Prices                     As Percent of Total
1970   1975   1980
Imports                                    8,786       -23.1   18.0   12.8    2.1   6.7         9.0      3.1             10J0.0  10J0.0  100.0
Food                                       617       -20.9   19.7   -7.5   -3.1  16.9         8.7      4.6             11.0   16.6    9.3
Other Consumer Goods                       534       -26.5   10.9  -23.9   -9.7   4.1    10.9          5.2              9.3    8.3    6.1
Petroleum  Products                     2,189         -7.5    6.7   -1.5   10.6  15.3         2.5      1.6              9.5   16.4   24.3
Intermediate Goods                      3,292       -23.9   28.8   19.4   -3.5   3.3    10.9           1.8             41.5   36.8   37.5
Capital Goods                           2,004        -27.5   18.4   26.7   -5.8   3.6    11.0          5.9             28.6   21.9   22.8
Exports                                    4,586       -16.0    4.3    4.1   11.1  29.3         7.1      3.9             100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture and Food                       553        -0.3   17.8    1.3    3.6  15.3    -1.0   -10.0                  20.9   16.8   12.1
Wood, Cork, Paper and Pulp                 813       -17.8   28.0   -3.8    3.3  28.2    17.3   -10.0                  16.1   15.9   17.7
Textiles and Clothing                   1,154        -18.4   -6.7   -0.5   22.1  26.2    -8.0         0.0              26.4   27.3   25.2
Petroleum  Products                       288 3    -17.1    0.5   11.0    9.6  33.6    50.0    -8.0                                     6.3
Other Manufactures                      1,778 )                                              13.0      1.0             36.7   40.0   38.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                                   1975=100
Export Price Index                                   100.0  107.1  145.1  179.0 229.1   315.7    95.9
Import Price Index                                   100.0  111.4  143.9  177.5 240.0   381.0   102.5
Terms of Trade Index                                 100.0   96.1  100.8  100.8  95.5    82.9    93.6
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                        As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
BEst.
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                    1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Current Receipts                                      93.2  127.1  173.6  212.2  264.3  361.8    450.2    24.8   27.2   27.9   27.2   28.9   30.0   31.2
Current Expenditures                                 102.6  153.3  182.1  238.5  302.2  407.0    524.6    22.6   32.8   29.3   30.6   30.7   33.8   36.4
Current Surplus/Deficit (-) of the State              -9.4  -26.2   -8.5  -26.3  -37.9  -45.2    -74.4    -2.5   -5.6   -1.3   -3.4   -3.9   -3.8   -5.2
Capital Expenditures (Net)                            12.4   19.3   34.5   39.1   42.7   64.8         69.2      4.4    5.0    6.4    5.0    4.3    5.9    5.4
Net Financing Requirements                            21.8   45.5   43.0   65.4   80.6  110.0    143.6          5.8    9.7    8.0    8.4    8.2    9.1    9.9
Financing Needs                                       17.4   48.9   44.7   75.8   97.1  131.1    162.5          4.6   10.4    7.2    9.7    9.9   10.9   11.3
Debt Amortization                                      4.4   -3.4   -1.7  -10.4  -16.5  -21.1 d/ -40.4          1.2    0.7    0.3    1.3    1.7    1.7    2.7
LABOR FORCE                                                             TOTAL LABOR FORCE e/
In Thousands                                Percent of Total                        Annual
Ret.                                          Est.         Growth Rate(%)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981             1977   1978   1979   1980    1981                1979-80
Agriculture               1,263   1,187   1,174   1,158   1,090              33.4   3'.8   30.9   29.9    27.3                 -1.4
Industry                  1,250   1,283   1,330   1,382   1,446              33.0   34.4   35.1   35.6    36.3                43.9
Services                  1,269   1,259   1,290   1,337   1,450              33.6   33.8   34.0   34.5    36.4                 -3.6
Total                   3,782   3,729   3,794   3,877   3,986             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0                  2.3
a/ At market prices. Sectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not
add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Statistical discrepancy is included in the consumption data.
'E  Exchange rate at end 1981 USt1=Esc. 65.0.
d/ Estimated.
e/  Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
(0340G)



- 25-                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual
Est.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979   1980   1981
Exports (F.O.B.)                     1843  2238  1936  1790  2001  2379  3550   4575   4228
Imports (F.O.B.)                     2745  4277  3606  3965  4533  4787  6182   8781   9280
Trade Balance (X-M)                  -902 -2039 -1670 -2175 -2532 -2408 -2632  -4206  -5052
Net Non-Factor Services              67   -74  -170    54    82   276   541    568    417
Tourism Receipts (Gross)           (550) (513) (360) (327) (403) (592) (942) (1148)
Resource Balance                     -835 -2113 -1839 -2121 -2450 -2132 -2091  -3638  -4635
Net Investment Income a/               86   129   -14  -133  -179  -329  -437   -617   -899
Net Transfers b/                     1097  1111  1037   964  1134  1635  2476   2997   2824
Balance on Current Account            348  -873  -817 -1290 -1495  -826   -52  -1258  -2710
Direct Foreign Investment             110   109   122    51    52    56    59    100    -
Changes in Official Liquid
Foreign Exchange Reserves
(- = Increase)                  -345   554   688   128   359  -103   -68            58    190
Official Reserves
Gross hnd of Year c/               2839  2354  1534  1301  1391  1880  1951   1815
Of which:  Gold                    1163  1193  1136  1125  1025  1009  1020   1020
Foreign Exchange    1641  1125   390   166   366   871   931             795
Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                           DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE d/         1975 1976 1977 1978 1979  1980  1981
Official Grants and Grant-like    -                  3    -       -     -      -                   Total Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed -
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                    Public Debt Only               1060 1343 2185 3699 4998  5625  5712 e/
IBRD                                -            -      36    74   131   143   134              Interest on Public Debt             37   41   78  149  311   450   641
IDA                                 -                   -      -      -      -      -           Repayments on Public Debt           75  102  140  257  417   538   606
Other Multilateral                   1             4   123    87    86    69    96              Total Public Debt Service         112  143  218  406  728   988  1247
Governments                          7            71   124   314   915   237    91
Suppliers                          207           55    41    62    53         1   106
Public Debt Service Ratio   3.0  4.1  5.4  7.9  9.5  10.2  14.6
Pinancial Markets                   74    -      91   388   396   744   700   659
Public Loans n.e.i.                 -            -      -      -    - -    -
Total Public M&LT Loans               51   460   224   712   933  1929  1150  1086                Average Terms of Public Debt
(Grant Element)                9.1 11.1 12.9  4.5 -2.8   0.4   -
Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1981                     Interest on Public Debt Z         7.6  6.3  6.8  7.6  7.5   8.1   9.7
EXTERNAL DEBT                                 Disbursed Only             Percent
IBRD                                               132                   2.1                      Amortization as Z Prior
IDA                                                 -                     -                         Year Public DO&D                  -   9.6 10.4 11.8 10.4  10.8
Other Multilateral                                 338                   5.3                      IBRD Debt Outstanding
Governments (Bilateral Loans)                     1316                  20.6                         and Disbursed                  39.0 35.6 32.2 36.1 63.1 109.4 132.0
Suppliers' Credits                                 347                   5.4                      IBRD DO&D as 2 Public Debt
Financial Institutions                           3519                   56.0                         Outstanding and Disbursed   3.7  2.7  1.5  1.0  1.3   1.9   2.5
Total Public and Publicly Guaranteed Debt   5712 e/                     89.4                      IBRD Debt Service as 2
Total Public and Private MALT Debt f/               6802                 100.0                         Public Debt Service             5.7  4.3  3.1  1.9  1.8   2.0   2.1
a/ Largely interest payments.
b/  Largely workers' remittances.
c/  Gold, National Valuation:  Special Drawing Rights, 35 per fine troy ounce and converted to US dollars.
December 1980 stock of 22.13 million ounces would give about $9 billion, valued at $400 per ounce.
d/  Debt service as a ratio of earnings from exports, non-factor services and workers' remittances.
e/  Estimate for public debt and publicly guaranteed debt ($5712) based on Treasury data processed by the World Bank Debt Reporting System.
f/ Estimate from the Bank of Portugal; includes $220 million of private non-guaranteed debt.
Not available.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 19, 1982
(340G)



- 26 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
As of September 30, 1982
($ million)
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year      Borrower                Purpose                Bank       Undisbursed
Six loans for power development and one for
industrial finance fully disbursed                      139.5           -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal       Highways                  24.0            6.1
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal       Water Supply              40.0           30.1
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal       Education I               21.0           18.9
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal       Agricultural Credit       70.0           69.0
1649 1979 Quimica de Portugal E.P. Fertilizer Industry         58.0           11.7
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal       Highways II              40.0            36.1
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal       Small and
Medium Industry         45.0            33.8
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal       Education II              40.0           39.9
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal       Forestry                  50.0           41.3
1874 1980 COMETNA a/                 Mechanical Industry       33.4           27.7
1875 1980 SOREFAME a/                Mechanical Industry        9.6            3.6
1942 1981 Second Banco de Fomento  Development
Nacional                  Finance                 100.0           90.6
2024 1981 PETROGAL                   Petroleum Exploration   20.0             17.3
TOTAL                                              690.5 b/       426.1 b/
of which has been repaid                           72.9
TOTAL now outstanding                              618.6
Amount sold                          2.6
of which has been repaid            2.5             0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank c/                          618.5
TOTAL undisbursed                                                 426.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Year        Obligor               Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1981 SPI Sociedade Portuguesa   Development Finance   10.0         1.5     11.5
de Investimentos            Company
a! Loans to two companies under the same project.
b/ Excludes the $30 million Energy Conservation and Diversification and the
$51 million Tras-os-Montes Rural Development projects which were approved
by the Executive Directors in June 1982 but not signed as of September 30,
1982.
c/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1334 -, Highways I Projec~t;_ $24,0 Million Loan of March 3_,_ _197_7;
Effectiveness Date: July 8, 1977; Revised Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Despite start-up delays in procuring equipment, appointing consul-
tants, and preparing subprojects, all aspects of the project are now pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The road rehabilitation components and the pro-
curement of equipment are expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.  The
national transport plan and the highway master plan are substantially com-
pleted. The first engineers have completed their overseas post-graduate
training The closing date was revised for the second time to September 30,
1983.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.O Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The main physical component of the project, a 90 km transmission
pipeline, is progressing although with considerable delays, as is work on
the related pumping stations which is also behind schedule. A feasibility
study of water supply and sewerage in the Porto Region has been completed.
Steps have been taken to clear up the municipal arrears and some improvement
has been made. A new Board for EPAL was appointed in January 1982, which
has made major improvements in EPAL's financial management. Tariffs were
increased in March 1982 by about 45 percent on average. The investment pro-
gram was tailored to concentrate on the project works. Due to delays in
contracting, a two year extension of the closing date is likely to be
requested.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $2l.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Revised Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including
management training centers, are now underway; construction of the voca-
tional training centers has been completed and the centers are operational.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
porgress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Equipment procurement lists have been approved and most draft contracts
negotiated, but all are not yet signed. Technical assistance is being
recruited on schedule; studies have been substantially completed. The clos-
ing date has already been extended by one year to December 31, 1982 and if
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily, a further extension will
be considered.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70.0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Progress in implementation of the agricultural credit component
remains slow. Excess liquidities in the banking system have so far sharply
limited recourse to IFADAP refinancing. The Government is preparing a pro-
posal for restructuring the project, to streamline the credit approval
system, expand the project area, adjust the interest rate structure to esta-
blish a constant interest rate over the life of the subloans and increase
short term rates above medium- and long-term rates, and eliminate other
credit facilities from the area which offer different terms. It is likely
that a large portion of the loan could not be utilized by the current closing
date, and may be cancelled.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project, $58.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date; June 1, 1979; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Physical project implementation is progressing satisfactorily,
about three months behind schedule, with the urea plant already commissioned
and the Alverga nitric acid plant undergoing start-up tests. Procurement of
Bank-financed equipment is completed and the corresponding loan funds are
fully committed. The fertilizer study has been completed. Although the fer-
tilizer operations show some profit, Quimigal continues to experience finan-
cial problems, especially in non-fertilizer operations, and its position is
under review by the Bank.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1979_ Closing Date: June30, 1984.
After a slow start, progress on rehabilitation works is now pro-
gressing. Twenty-eight of the 60 road sections to be rehabilitated are under
construction.  Training programs are under preparation.  Budgetary con-
straints have delayed project implementation, which is now nearly two years
behind schedule. The Government is taking measures to relieve the budgetary
constraints.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development_Project,;,$45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979 Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983.
A substantial amount of the SMI credit line has been committed.
Participating banks have shown renewed interest in the credit line, due
mainly to the Central Bank taking steps to facilitate its use.  A revision in
the rental policy of the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates (EPPI) has
been made to ensure better returns on investment; however, EPPI is experienc-
ing delays in budget support and construction works; the Government is likely
to reallocate funds from EPPI to the SMI credit line. The technology study
and procurement on other technology items are progressing well. The textile
study has been completed, but the Government has decided to abandon the
export promotion study. An extension of the closing date is likely to be
requested.
Loan 1793 - Second Education Project; $40 Million Loan of April 16,.1'980,;
Effectiveness Date: July 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established, and equipment
procurement is progressing well. Inter-ministerial working committees are
working well which should improve implementation of the civil works
components. Curricula and syllabi are either completed or under
development. Implementation of the technical assistance program is on
schedule.
Loan 1853 - ForestryZ Projec.t;' $50 Mil,lion Loan of October 2, 1980.; Ef fective-
ness Date: March 2., 1981,; Closing, Date:_ September. 30,, 1986.
The Project Coordination Unit has been established and is working
effectively. Satisfactory progress is being made on the acquisition of land
and the afforestation program. Equipment for the 1981-1983 afforestation
seasons has been procured and delivered. Despite initial delays, the techni-
cal assistance program is now going well. The Agricultural and Fisheries
Credit Fund (IFADAP) is gearing up to process subloans to cooperatives and/or
associations of private forest owners soon.  Extension workers are still
needed for the forest extension service so that specific investment projects
can be prepared.
Loans 1874 and 1875 - Mechanical Industries Projec,t; $33.4 Million Loan to
COMETNA and, _$9,.6Million Loan to SOREFAME of October 2,_ .1980.; Effectiveness
date: December 29, 1980; Closing Date; December 31, 1983.
Physical implementation of the COMETNA project is progressing well
after a six-month delay due mainly to a change in site location. Site pre-
paration is now nearly complete; contracts have been awarded for civil works,



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
and buildings and procurement are progressing well. Mechanical completion is
expected by August 1983. Physical implementation of the SOREFAME project is
progresing well and should be mechanically completed by the end of 1982; all
equipment packages have been procured and the management study has been com-
pleted. Due to lower than expected equipment prices and favorable exchange
rates, project costs were lower than expected; at SOREFAME's request, $I mil-
lion of the Bank loan has been cancelled. The engineering industries sub-
sector study has been delayed and should be completed by early 1983. Techni-
cal assistance components are proceeding.
Loan 1942 - Second Banco de Fomento Nacional Project; $100 Million Loan of
March 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  June 16,, 1981; Clo,sing, Date;  June 30,
1985.
Appraisal of subprojects and commitments are underway; however,
BFN's portfolio and arrears position remain a problem and are deteriorating.
The export promotion plan is underway, but the targets may be jeopardized
because of the unfavorable global economic climate. An in-depth view of
BFN's operations is scheduled for October 1982.
Loan 2024 - Petroleum Exploration Project_ $20 Million Loan of September 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: March 1, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Data acqui-
sition for the two seismic surveys is complete and the surveys should be com-
pleted by October 1982. Drilling of the first well has commenced; the loca-
tion of the second well has been agreed and that of the third exploratory
well should be agreed by November 1982. The first phase of the geochemical
study has been completed and the heavy oil study is expected to be completed
by the end of October 1982. Consumer prices for petroleum products have been
adjusted regularly; the ex-refinery prices have also recently been adjusted
to reflect some of the financial costs incurred in importing crude oil.
PETROGAL's financial situation is becoming very serious; Petrogal lost money
in 1982 and the Supply Fund arrears, which built up in 1982 due to the sub-
sidy policy of the Government for diesel and fuel oil, have not been paid.
?



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
Second Small and Medium Industry Development Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
the project                                  4 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:           IAPMEI, BdP and
Participating Banks
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank, date of first Bank mission            March 1982
to consider the project:                    June 1982
(d)  Date of negotiations:                        February 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness;               June 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) The Agency Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Govern-
ment and BdP be executed (para. 47);
(b) At least three financial institutions, accounting for about 40 per-
cent of the assets of the total commercial banking system, sign
agreements with BdP and IAPMEI, satisfactory to the Bank, outlining
the agreed responsibilities and procedures for the project
(para. 47); and
(c) A special account be opened by BdP for the proposed credit line
(para. 47).
2.        Other conditions:
(a) The current credit ceiling incentive scheme, whereby a participat-
ing bank's monthly credit ceiling is adjusted by the amount of the
line of credit it utilized, would be continued (para. 48);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Until completion of the project, IAPMEI will exchange views with
the Bank on its annual work program for the forthcoming year
(para. 57);
(c) IAPMEI would maintain its program of specialized consulting ser-
vices for long-term technical assistance to enterprises at least at
the 1983 level until completion of the project (para. 57); and
(d)  Periodic working consultations between the Government and the Bank
would be arranged to continue the joint review of the Government's
industrial investment incentive scheme, to formulate changes or new
measures to improve its industrial incentive framework, and to
ensure appropriate coordination between these general incentives
and other more specific measures which may be established for sub-
sector-specific restructuring programs (para. 59).



