Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4 1 8 5 - P O
PORTUGAL
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 11, 1983
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe,Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Currency Equivalents Used
1980          Escudo   1.0 = US$0.02
Escudos 50.0 = US$1.00
1981          Escudo   1.0= US$0.016
Escudos 61.0 = US$1.00
1982          Escudo   1.0 = US$o.012
Escudos 80.0 = US$1.00
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms
BFN                  Banco Fomento Nacional
BPA                  Banco Portugues do Atlantico
CGD                  Caixa Geral de Depositos
EEC                  European Economic Community
EIB                  European Investment Bank
EMI                  Electrical-Mechanical Industries
EUA                  European Unit of Account
Ese.                 Escudo
IAPMEI               Institute for the support of Small
and Medium Industries
PBI                  Participating banking institutions
SIII                 Industrial Investment Incentive Scheme
SMI                  Small and Medium Scale Industries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                  1
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR                                         I
Characteristics and Structure                               1
Past Trends and Recent Performance                          I
Development Issues and Constraints                          2
Development Strategy                                        4
Bank Involvement in the Sector                              4
III.  THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY SECTOR                          4
Characteristics                                             4
Performance, Constraints and Prospects                      5
IV.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ITS ROLE IN SMI FINANCING            6
Financial System                                            6
Bank of Portugal                                            6
Monetary Policy                                             7
Interest Rates                                              7
Interest Subsidies                                          8
Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage                              9
Role of Banking System and SMI Financing                    9
Caixa Geral de Depositos                                   10
Banco Fomento Nacional                                     10
IAPMEI's Financial Assistance                              10
Performance under SMI I Credit Line                        11
Other Sources of SMI Financing                             12
V.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE SMI SECTOR                       12
Institutional Framework                                    12
IAPMEI's Activities                                        12
IAPMEI's Organization                                      14
Performance and Evaluation                                 15
VI. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives                                         16
Project Elements                                           17
Coordination with other Bank Operations                    17
Ihis report was prepared by Ms. K. Nguyen, Messrs. W. Hayden and A. Gore.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)                                       Page No.
A. SMI Credit Line
Size of Credit Line                                  17
Target Group and Eligibility Criteria                17
Channeling Mechanism                                 18
Subproject Appraisal Procedures                     19
Subproject Review and Approval Procedures           20
Supervision of Subprojects and Periodic
Review of Credit Line Performance                 20
Disbursement Procedures                              21
Audit Procedures                                     21
Procurement                                         22
Terms and Conditions of Subloans                     22
Incentive for Participating Banks                   22
B.  Technical Assistance Component                          22
Objective and Description                           22
Link between Financial and Technical Assistance    24
Environmental Aspects of Subprojects                24
C.  Investment Incentive Policy                             24
Project Completion Dates                            25
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits                                             25
Risks                                               26
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS                                             26
Annexes
Annex 1   Portugal's System of Industrial Investment Incentives (SIII)
Annex 2   Interest Rates and Inflation
Annex 3   Historical Structure of Interest Rates
Annex 4   Analysis of Commercial Banks' Credit Portfolio
Annex 5   Bank Participation in the SMI I Credit Line
Annex 6   Analysis of Commitments under SMI I Credit Line
Annex 7   Projected Commitment and Disbursement Schedules
Annex 8   Documents in Project File



PORT UGAL
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report appraises a project to provide financial and technical
assistance to small and medium industry (SMI) in Portugal.  The proposed
project follows from the first SMI project (Loan 1701-PO, approved June 1979).
1.02     The proposed project consists of three components:  (i)  a US$40
million line of credit to the government to be on-lent to eligible SMI through
the intermediation of all Portuguese financial institutions willing to
participate in the scheme; (ii)  provision of technical assistance to new and
existing SMIs through the activities of the Institute for the Support of Small
and Medium Industries (IAPMEI); and (iii)  continuation of the dialogue
between the Government and the Bank on industrial investment incentive
policies.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SEGTOR
2.01     Characteristics and Structure.  The industrial sector is a leading
sector in the Portuguese economy accounting for about 30 percent of GDP, 35
percent of employment, 40 percent of capital formation and about 90 percent of
merchandise exports.  The public sector controls large capital intensive
industries (i.e., steel, oil refining, chemicals, fertilizer, pulp and paper,
cement and ship building) accounting now for about 35 percent of the
manufacturing capital stock.  These industries are primarily oriented towards
domestic markets.  In addition, the Government retains varying interests in
over 1300 enterprises (mixed sector) whose shares are owned by banks that were
nationalized after the Revolution in 1974.  The private sector predominates in
the light industries, including textiles, food processing, transport equipment
(other than ship building), electrical-mechanical, products, wood, and cork.
Small and medium enterprises (SMI) are predominant in almost all of these
industries. As the Government increasingly encourages a larger role for the
private sector, these SMIs therefore form a priority subsector in Portugal's
industrial development strategy and the focus of the proposed project.  Their
characteristics and perfornance are discussed in Chapter III.
2.02     Past Trends and Recent Performance.  During the 1968-1973 period,
industry (growing at a 10 percent p.a.) was the driving force of the
remarkable growth of the Portuguese economy (6.9 percent p.a.).  The
Revolution of April 1974 brought an end to Portugal's colonial era, the loss
of important preferential markets and the repatriation of more than half a
million of former colonists, many of whom were absorbedin an expanded public
sector.  Banks and large industrial groups were nationalized and their
operational efficiency suffered. Labor laws were introduced reducing labor
mobility and productivity (para. 2.06). Price controls were established
causing substantial declines in profits or even losses.  The difficulties of
implementing these major reforms were further aggravated by major external
changes notably the increase in oil prices and the levelling off of Portugal's



-2 -
exports due to recessionary conditions in Western Europe.  The effects of
these events were serious disruptions in industrial growth (3 percent in 1974,
-9.7 percent in 1975, and 4.5 percent in 1976).  Substantial recovery took
place however by 1977 with a 9.4 percent growth during the year, essentially
based on general improvement in productivity of the labor force.  In the
period 1977-1979, performance of industry continued to be good (about 3
percent p.a. or at the same pace as for the economy as a whole), in spite of
the deflationary effects of the stabilization program started in 1977.
Economic policies were progressively adjusted to the long-term needs of an
export-based industrial sector, and industrial exports resumed their
pre-Revolution role of driving force of industrial progress, growing at some
26 percent p.a. in real terms over 1977-1979 (compared to a decline of 30
percent p .a. during the period 1974-197 7) .
2.03     Affected negatively by the events of the 19 74 Revolution, industrial
investments fell steadily until 1977, even though capacity utilization did
improve markedly during those years.  In 1978, the level of industrial
investment accounted for about 40 percent of productive capital formation in
Portugal, representing a real increase of about 17 percent over 1973.  By
1980., it was some 32 percent higher in real terms than in 1973.  This
seemingly good performance however masked some serious structural problems:
continued strong bias for the large public sector industries and a
significantly lower share of investment in the major exporting sectors (47
perceent and 10 percent share respectively of accumulated investment over
1974-1978).  While the industrial sector contributed significantly to job
creation (75,000 jobs in 1978), this increase occurred largely in public
sector industries, several of which had little or no increases in production
(e.g., 10,000 in ship-building where production was practically stagnant), and
in activities with very small productivity gains (e.g., 11,500 in clothing
where productivity rose only by 2 percent).
2.04     During 1980-1981, the performance of the industrial sector has been
mixed and not as dynamic as in the last years of the 1970s. Whereas, in 1980,
the 6 percent overall industrial growth rate continued to be based on strong
export performance as in the late 1970s, in 1981 (when industrial production
rose by about 2 percent) production in many of the main exporting subsectors
such as textiles and electrical mechanical industries actually declined, and
the increase in output was only sustained by the stronger performance in
subsectors more reliant on domestic demand.  Even though small improvements in
productivity were achieved in 1980, that situation was reversed in 1981 and
the overall productivity position remains weak. While considerable export
potential within the industrial sector can be expected to emerge from
Portugal's upcoming accession to the EEC, substantial increases in
productivity levels will need to be made soon before Portuguese industries can
maximize this potential benefit, and more importantly, counter the threat of
increased import-penetration from the new EEC partners as well as the non-EEC
countries.  The experience of 1981 suggests that for this to be realized, a
number of constraints and issues need to be quickly addressed.
2.05     Development Issues and Constraints  In addition to external
const:raints such as the depressed European economic environment and the
uncertain general political situation of the country, the deteriorating



- 3 -
performance of Portuguese industries, large and small, derive from several
fundamental internal problems. Productivity remains low, partly due to
overmanning (para. 2.03), and partly due to inefficient planning and
management of operations and in some cases, failure to modernize production
practices. Output structure needs to be changed towards greater product
specialization and innovation to aim at larger volumes, better quality and its
control, and lower costs in order to be more competitive and address more
rapidly the changing markets.  Consolidation of industries, particularly in
traditional subsectors (e.g., textiles, electrical-mechanical products) is
urgently needed to phase out uneconomic production lines or units, and to
integrate (by relocation if necessary) smaller capacities into more efficient
sizes. The financial structure of most enterprises is very weak with high
short-term debt and low equity base; as a result, their profitability, which
is already poor, is vulnerable to changes in factor and market prices,
especially in the present periods of high interest rates leading ot high
debt-service burden.  Several factors are responsible for this low
profitability: general unwillingness of entrepreneurs to borrow long-term, or
to diversify their equity base for fear of loosing control; preference of
banks for short maturity loans to minimize risk, and their leniency towards
equity participation requirement; and the very limited capital markets.
Clearly, substantial and comprehensive financial and technical assistance is
needed by Portuguese industries to address the above constraints. Mechanisms
already exist to provide such assistance specifically to SMIs, and their
strengthening is one of the primary aims of this project.
2.06     The industrial policies adopted since the Revolution, although
progressively adjusted since 1977, have not resolved the above structural
weaknesses.  Rather they represented further elements of constraints.  Labour
laws (designed to protect jobs during the post-Revolution turmoil of the
mid-seventies) now make the trimming of surplus labour very difficult, thus
reducing the ability of many industries to increase their productivity 1/.
Similarly, continued price controls have also limited improvements in the
firms' profitability, particularly for the large public ones.  Other policies
such as non-tarif trade barriers and industrial investment incentives have
induced industries to rely heavily on protection and subsidization rather than
to strive for maximum efficiency and competitiveness. With regards to the
investment incentives, the existing system is based heavily on interest
subsidies (para. 4.06), is excessively generous, is not sufficiently selective
to provide appropriate directions for the needed structural changes in
industries, and finally, is extremely complicated to administer (Annex 1).
Finally, coherent policies and strategies for the public industries as well as
specific industrial subsectors have not been clearly defined, leading to
formulation of investment programs that are often inconsistent and ineffective
in addressing the structural problems plaguing the industries.  The above
industrial issues have been reviewed in details in a recent Bank report 2/,
and discussed with the Portuguese authorities in June 1982.  This policy
dialogue is expected to continue in the context of our general Bank economic
work and lending operations.  Because SMIs are represented widely across many
industrial subsectors, the investment incentive issue is included as a policy
component of the proposed project (paras. 6.30 and 6.31).
1/ In a number of instances, the smaller private enterprises have been able
to get around this problem by amiable arrangements for workers' early
retirement, re-training, etc.
2/  Portugal:  Policies for Industrial Restructuring, Report No., 3804-PO,
August 4, 1982.



-4 -
2.107    Development Strategy  Against this background, the industrial
strategy for Portugal should be based on two approaches:  (i) to reorganize,
rehabilitate and modernize existing enterprises in selected traditional export
industries (in particular, textiles, engineering, pulp and paper, and foods;
and (ii) to promote new investments in innovative industrial areas. The
global objectives should be to increase exports and to create new, viable
employment (in part to help absorb the labor released from the reorganization
of existing enterprises). Growth in the sector however will have to be
judiciously targetted in order to maintain a sound macroeconomic position
which is very much needed by the country in the medium term l/. The Bank
supports the above strategy and objectives with the proposed SMI project.
2.08     Bank's Involvement in the Industrial Sector  Bank's industrial
operations since 1976 involved a total of six loans.  These may be
characterized into two types.  One group followed the traditional development
finance approach and supported the existing Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN)
with two lines of credit (FY77 and FY81). The second group was guided
principally by the developmental issues associated with Portugal's needs to
modernize its industries in the face of both increasing domestic consumption
and the prospect of integration into the European economy.  Thus, the first
Small- and Medium- Scale Industries (SMI) project (FY78) provided the funds
and technical assistance necessary for the SMI, to upgrade, increase exports,
reduce imports and service the growing domestic demand. The Fertilizer
Modernization and the Mechanical Industries projects (FY79 and FY80) supported
the rehabilitation needs of heavy industrial concerns which had been
nationalized after the Revolution. Most recently, the Industry Energy
Conservation project (FY82) was designed to identify energy-saving practices
and investments in industrial processes, as well as to examine the Portuguese
potential for developing renewable energy resources.
2.09     The Bank's economic and sector work during the last five years has
provided considerable groundwork for our past and future lending strategy and
operations. Most recently, the case for industrial restructuring and the
policy options available were elaborated in the report Policies for Industrial
Restructuring which was discussed with the Government in June 1982. Specific
studies of the structural adjustment needs in the textile subsector,
mechanical industries, pulp and paper subsector, as well as of technological
development have been funded under ongoing lending operations and are becoming
available. Policy options and implementation programs are being developed out
of which specific relevant lending operations may be formulated for the next
five years.
III. THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY SECTOR
3.01     Characteristics.  According to IAPMEI, small and medium industrial
(SMI) enterprises are defined as those employing less than 400 workers and
having annual sales not exceeding Esc. 250 million (about US$3 million
equivalent).  The SMI universe consists of over 15,700 2/ units or about 68.5X
of the total 23,000 manufacturing enterprises in the country. The target
1/  For details, see the Portuguese Economy, 1980-1981:  An updating report,
October 29, 1982.
2/ This does not include enterprises employing less than five workers, which
according to the latest available 1970 industrial census numbered over
34,000.



group of the proposed project (as defined in para. 6.06) includes SMIs
generally employing less than 100 workers which constitute the majority of
SMIs. The SMI sector forms a dominant part of the manufacturing activity,
accounting for over 60% of manufacturing employment, value added as well as
output, and about 48% of the fixed capital formation.  Four subsectors (food,
wood, textiles and electrical- mechanical) account for more than 75% of the
value added, employment and number of units in the SMI sector. A further
breakdown shows predominance of SMIs in export-oriented products (e.g.,
fabrics, clothing, knitwear, wooden furniture and sea food) and in products
where proximity to local markets is important (e.g., building materials,
printing, bakeries, slaugtherhouses etc.).  The geographical distribution of
SMIs follows the distribution of larger industries with four districts
accounting for more than 70% of the total SMI and 75% of SMI employment (Porto
and Braga in the Northern, Aveiro in the Central and Lisbon in the Southern
*         regions).  An SMI is typically owned by a family or, more recently, a group of
partners who have acquired skills in other enterprises or overseas. Thus, SMI
management and decisions tend to be governed to a great extent by the
constraints of family control and, in most SMIls, investment still tends to be
financed through retained earnings and from family resources.  There is still
fear of Government intervention and of losing family control.  This extends
even to being too much in debt to commercial banks since in the past, banks
frequently took over small family enterprises in difficulties. As a result,
Portuguese SMIs tend to approach most investments on the basis of short-term
profitability, and are reluctant to diversify out of traditional product lines.
3.02     Performance, Constraints and Prospects.  Portuguese statistics do not
offer separate data for SMIs. Inferences from our enterprise visits and
IAPMEI's knowledge of the sector indicate that up to 1981, Portuguese SMIs
seem to have fared quite well.  Investments in most activities were moving
back in real terms close to the pre-1974 levels. For a sample of some 2,000
SMIs registered with IAPMEI and for which data are available, investments have
increased by about 6 percent during 1980-1981 in spite of general internal and
external uncertainties. This is partly due to an improvement in the market
environment overseas for a number of non-traditional subsectors and new
entrepreneurship emerging from immigrants returned from the colonies, and
partly due to the financial and technical promotion programs organized by
IAPMEI and commercial banks. But above all, this reflects SMI's great
tenacity and flexibility to survive transitional difficulties. The SMI sector
plays a significant part in the export of both traditional and non traditional
products as the number of SMIs successfully engaged in exporting has increased
in the past few years.  In the footwear industry, for example, 52 SMIs which
were exporting in early 1977 had grown to 220 by 1980 and footwear exports
accounted for 3.6 percent of manufactured exports by 1979 (compared to 1.2
percent in 1974).  hAong the non-traditional sectors, a prime example is the
marble industries where 80 percent of the 388 firms employed less than 20
workers and exported in 1978 more than 50 percent of their output.  In 1981,
the SMIts in IAPMEI's sample exported between 20 percent and 45 percent of
their sales. The competitive advantage of SMIs is based mostly on low labor
costs combined with an acceptable level of quality rather than on high
productivity and high standards of quality and design. SMI performance during
the last two years appears to vary widely with industrial subsectors: buoyed
by new investments, production increased dramatically in non-traditional



-6-
sectors (stone cutting, processed timber, ceramics, hollow glass, footwear and
some transport and electrical machinery) and where export demand was strong
(co;rk, furniture, marble products, knitted garments and footwear). SilIs in
the more traditional industries such as the food processing industries (which
were strong in exports in the mid seventies) have stagnated, the major problem
being inadequate supply of raw materials, their uneven quality, and high
costs. Considerable fluctuations in the world markets have also slowed the
growth of SMI exports from the textiles (cotton, woolen, making up and
garments) and electrical-mechanical activities.
3.03     As Portugal enters the EEC, a major task will be to raise the
tech-nological and managerial efficiency of the SMI enterprises.  The SMI
problems are essentially the same as those identified for the industrial
sector as a whole (paras. 2.03 and 2.04).  They are more difficult to resolve
however because of the many small units involved. By the same token, the set
of effective sectoral policies (e.g., incentive schemes), coherent subsectoral
restructuring strategies, and well-defined financial as well as technical
assistance programs will take on a relatively greater importance.  The first
SMI credit line has tried to address some of the above difficulties (paras.
4.14-4.18).  The proposed project seeks to strengthen these efforts (Chapter
6).
IV.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ITS ROLE IN SMI FINANCING
4.01     The Financial System.  The number and variety of financial
institutions is quite limited for a country of Portugal's stage of
development. The principal institutions involved in providing industrial
financing are the Bank of Portugal (Central Bank); nine commercial banks;
Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD) which is also the major savings institution;
Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN); the major Portuguese industrial development
barnk; and two investment companies, the Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa (SFP)
and the recently established, first privately owned Sociedade Portuguesa
Industriais (SPI); and three new leasing companies established in the last two
years. Additionally, there are some 200 minor savings and cooperative banks
and three foreign banks whose activities are mostly concentrated on foreign
trade operations. All private Portuguese owned financial institutions, with
the exception of the small saving banks, were nationalized in 1975.  CGD has
always been public. The nationalized banks, however, have retained
considerable autonomy. IAPMEI, in addition to providing technical assistance,
facilitates SMIs' access to credit through their guarantee of loans made by
the commercial banks (para 4.13).
4.02     Bank of Portugal.  The Bank of Portugal has the usual powers of a
central bank, including the setting of mandatory reserve requirements, maximum
interest rates and credit ceilings.  It finances credit institutions through
the usual rediscount facilities.  Under the SMI I project, the Bank of
Portugalacted on behalf of the Government as the apex organization in
chaLnneling the funds to the participating banks (PBIs).  This arrangement
proved very satisfactory and is continued under the proposed loan.



- 7 -
4.03      Monetary Policy.  The large public deficits have been the major
constraint on monetary policy in Portugal since 1980 as they caused the growth
of credit to the public sector to increase more rapidly than the growth of
other forms of credit. Monetary policy has continued to rely mainly on credit
ceilings although successive adjustments in interest rate have also taken
place (para. 4.05). These recent increases in interest rates on deposits have
rapidly expanded the value of savings in the form of bank deposits.  In order
to control the expansion of credit, the Central Bank since 1978 has
established monthly credit ceilings for individual banks, determined within an
overall limit for aggregate credit expansion. Initially, purely quantitative
ceilings were applied, but in 1981 a qualitative approach was adopted in as
much as the various forms of credits and loans carry a different weight in
determining the base monthly credit ceiling for each bank. The base ceiling
is further adjusted in consideration of the degree to which the respective
bank extends priority credits relative to the proportion of such credit being
extended by the system as a whole. In addition, genuinely punitive penalties
on banks for exceeding the ceiling were established.
4.04      The Central Bank's monetary policy resulted in substantial excess
liquidity in the banking system as reflected in the drop of interest rates in
the inter-bank market to a low of 4% during 1981-82 while the borrowing rate
is still at 26%. The excess liquidity also caused a slow down in the rate of
PBI's commitments under the SMI I credit line. After a review of commitment
levels, the Central Bank in January 1982 agreed to grant a credit ceiling
incentive 1/ to the PBIs utilizing the Bank's credit line, whereby a PBI's
monthly credit ceiling is adjusted by the amount of the credit line it used
during the previous month.  This has renewed the PBIs' interest and the credit
line is expected to be committed by June 30, 1983 (para 4.15). Excess
liquidity is projected to continue through 1984 and to ensure continued
interest from the PBIs in the proposed credit line, agreement in principle has
been reached with the Central Bank to maintain the credit ceiling incentive
for this project. Formal confirmation by the Central Bank of this agreement
was received during negotiations (para 6.22).
4.05      Interest Rates.  As the Portuguese interest rate structure was quite
low before the Revolution, the gradual increases after the Revolution were not
sufficient to compensate for the then accelerating inflation (Annexes 2 and
3). During the last five years, however, four interest rate increases were
implemented, raising the maximum lending rate from 14.75% to 26% and the
maximum deposit rate from 13% to 24%. All loans in PortuLgal are subject to a
floating interest rate which is adjusted when the Bank of Portugal changes
interest rate levels.  In three of the last four years, interest rates on
long-term loans 2/ have been positive in real terms as follows;
1/ This incentive works because, although the Bank's credit line is not
included in the individual bank's credit ceiling, it is included in the
overall country ceilings; thus the sum of the individual bank credit
ceilings is set at a lower level than the country ceilings decided on by
the Central Bank.
2/  Interest rates on short-term  loans during the last year or so have also
been marginally positive.



- 8
Long-Term         Annual Rate of
Lending Rate          Inflation            Difference
1978 iMay              22.25%              22.0%                  0.25%
1979                   22.25%              24.0%                 (1.75)%
1980                   22.25%              17.0%                  5.25%
1981                   24.25%              20.0%                  4.25%
1982 April             26.0%               25%  1/                1.0%
This pattern of positive real long-term interest rates is expected to continue
in the future.  In effect, deposit interest rates will need to be maintained
at a competitive level with EEC countries in order to ensure a steady inflow
of deposits from expatriate workers for these deposits have been a vital
element in commercial bank's term deposits (30%) and Portugal's balance of
payments.  Confirmation that the Government intends to maintain interest rates
at positive real levels was obtained during the negotiations and recorded in
the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations.
4.06      Interest Subsidies.  Working to undermine the above structure of
positive interest rates are the generous interest subsidies granted by the
Government in the framework of its industrial investment incentive scheme
(SIII).  One of the PBIs estimates that about 80% of its medium- to long-term
loans qualify for SIII interest rate subsidy. The subsidy may vary from a
maximum of 10% off the annual interest rate for the first year, depending on
the points scored by the investment project for its productivity achievement,
sectoral and regional location priorities. Over the following four years,
this subsidy would be reduced by 20% per annum. Thus, a project qualifying
for the full subsidy would receive an average of 6% per annum interest rebate
over the five years of the subsidy period, which would mean a negative
interest rate of about 5% per annum, assuming recent inflation rates.  Few
projects are however expected to qualify for full subsidy. Projects
qualifying for 50% of the subsidy would have a negative interest rate of about
2% per annum during the five-year subsidy period. Over 4,500 applications for
SIII incentives were submitted between May 1980 and April 1982; about 1,100
have been approved. Up to September 1982, however, no subsidy has been paid
out by the Government because of budgetary constraints and complicated
bureaucratic procedures.  Thus, in spite of the interest subsidies, the SIII
has not yet affected the capital intensity of investment projects to any
significant degree:  the cost per job created from the SMI investment projects
submitted for commercial bank financing during the first half of 1982 averaged
about US327,000 equivalent, compared to the maximum labor intensity criteria
of US$30,000 currently applied under the SMI I credit line. Because of this
labor intensive focus, the average cost per job of SMI subprojects already
approved under the SMI I credit is naturally lower, about US$16,000 equivalent.
1/ Estimated at June 1982; Bank's projections as of July 1982 show annual
inflation at 23% for 1982 and 18% for 1983 on.



-9-
4.07     The Government has recently started payment of the benefits due to
the approved investors and is considering how to improve the existing SIII
scheme (para. 6.29). Because the subsidies from the SIII scheme is a major
issue of concern for both the Government and Bank, and SMIs are widely
represented in the industrial activities benefitting from this incentive
scheme, the dialogue recently initiated between the Government and the Bank
will be continued under the proposed loan (para. 6.30).
4.08     Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage.  Under the first SMI loan, the
foreign exchange risk was borne by the Treasury, who covers the foreign
exchange losses incurred for the subloans with 12.85% of the 26% interest rate
paid by sub-borrowers 1/. These subloan transactions are recorded by the Bank
of Portugal. This arrangement, at present, is working satisfactorily.
Agreement in principle has been reached that this arrangement would be
continued to cover the exchange risk as well as the interest rate risk on the
proposed loan (para 6.21).
4.09     Role of Banking System and SMI Financing.  The major sources of
financing for all industries, including SMIs, are loans from commercial banks
and CGD, and to a lesser extent BFN.  Other types of industrial financing
(e.g., equity) are needed but not yet available, as the first private
investment company (para. 4.01) is still very new and Government policy
measures to develop the capital markets are too recent 2/. As of December 31,
1981, the credit portfolio of commercial banks (including CGD) was about Esc.
1,200 billion (or about US$18 billion), about 60% invested in short-term
loans, 16% in medium-term and 24% in long term.  Although industrial term
lending has been expanding substantially since 1977 (when commercial banks
were allowed to lend at terms greater than one year), the concentration on
short-term operations still continues to be strong (Annex 4).  A large portion
of these short term creciits made by the commercial banks are, however,
regularly rolled over.
4.10     The experience gained under the SMI I credit line indicates that
while commercial banks in Portugal still have limited project appraisal
capacity,there has been a considerable development in this field in recent
years, particularly in the aspects of financial and economic evaluation.
Seven of the nine commercial banks have a total professional staff of about
200, mainly economists and financial analysts, responsible for the appraisal
of medium-and long-term loans, in their Lisbon or Oporto offices.  The
appraisal reports usually are of good quality, with the level of detail
increasing with the size of projects, with focus mostly on analysis of
financial statements and economic evaluation but with a lesser emphasis on
market prospects and management. The number of engineers available for
appraisal is very limited, except for two of the larger banks.  The banks
1/  Onlending interest rate                  26.0X
Less  IBRD interest      7.9  %
PBI's spread      3.5  %
IAPMEI fee         1.0  %
Central Bank fee  0.75 %      13.15
Fee to foreign exchange
risk account                             12.85
2/ Legislation permitting the use of compensation bonds to buy public and
mixed enterprises (1981) and tax benefits on corporate bonds (1982).



- 10 -
usually depend on feasibility reports submitted by the promoters, or
documentation from equipment suppliers, and tend to rely on the services of
IAPMEI or, to some extent, independent consultants for review of the
project's technical design and assistance needs.  The proposed project would
continue the institution-building objective of the first SMI credit line,
namely to strengthen the project appraisal and assistance capabilities of the
agencies involved through our subproject review and project supervision
procedures (paras 6.13-15).
4.11     Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD).  After the commercial banks, CGD is
the largest single source of funds for SMI. It is the most active participant
in the SMI I project (para. 4.16).  CGD has built up a substantial project
appraisal and follow up capacity and experience, with a staff of about 200
professionals - financial analysts/economists as well as engineers - 60% of
whom are located in the main office in Lisbon.  During 1981 and 1982, in
collaboration with IAPMEI, CGD was also at the forefront of promoting SMI
investments.  Thus, under the two investment promotional contests 1/ held to
date, about 300 SMI investment projects have been identified, representing a
total of about US$200 million in investment costs and an estimated 7,000 new
jobs. Projects identified in this manner have played a major part in CGD's
major participation in the Bank's first line of credit.
4.12     Banco Fomento Nacional (BFN).  BFN is the leading investment
institution having access to long-term foreign resources. The majority of its
funcds is used to finance projects that, by Portuguese standards, are
considered large. BFN's conservative reputation and slow processing of loan
applications have made small entrepreneurs reluctant to apply for credit.
During the period 1979-1981, about 8% of BFN's portfolio was for loan amounts
of less than Esc. 25 million (about US$0.5 million equivalent), partly for
small extension projects of large firms. Recently, BFN has taken action to
decentralize its appraisal staff and decision making to some of its larger
branch offices in order to more effectively meet the needs of SMI.
4.13     IAPMEI's Financial Assistance.  In addition to technical assistance
(Chatpter V), IAPMEI provides a very important financial service to SMIs
through a Government's scheme of guarantees for commercial banks' loans to
SMI. The scheme is financed with Government's budget allocations, and IAPMEI
acts as the agent for the Government to review and approve the SMI's
applications.  A fee of 0.5% is charged for providing the guarantee.  As of
May 1982, IAPMEI's guarantees amounted to about US338 million, to cover some
1,500 SMI operations totalling about US$104 million in financing from the
banking system. About 950 guarantees (representing some 25% of the total
fund;s guaranteed) have expired without recourse to the guarantor; 140
operations (representing 5% of funds guaranteed) have defaulted and required
payment under the guarantee; and the balance of 400 operations (covering about
70% of the funds guaranteed) are still in force. The guarantee envelope given
1/  Investment projects participating in these contests are "competing" on the
basis of several criteria/objectives (e.g. most employment creation, best
utilization of local resources, most exports, technical innovation) for
prizes, the most important of which is guaranteed access to CGD
financing. IAPMEI's role in these promotional campaigns is to assist the
SMI participants with the design of their proposed projects, and help
provide subsequently appropriate technical support.



- 11 -
by the Government to be managed by IAPMEI was recently increased from US$25
million to about US$50 million; of this new total ceiling about US$16.5
million are still unused as of May 1982.  In addition to the guarantee
operations, IAPMEI is also administering an EEC grant of EUA 10 million (or
about US$10 million), of which US$2.5 million are earmarked to subsidize 25%
of the investment cost of SMIs' expansion, rehabilitation and diversification
projects (para. 5.04). Finally, IAPMEI has been playing a major role in the
review, appraisal and in some cases final approval of subprojects financed
under the Bank's SMI I line of credit (para. 6.11).
4.14      Performance under the SMI I Credit Line.  The objective of the line
of credit under SMI I was to help finance through the network of the
Portuguese commercial banks and specialized financial intermediaries, selected
SMI investment projects with special emphasis on exports and employment
generation. All nine commercial banks, CGD and BFN signed the protocol with
the Central Bank to participate in the line of credit. After a one year delay
in loan effectiveness 1/, commitments during the first six months started off
very slowly, mainly due to the high liquidity in the banking system. This
problem was resolved in January 1982 when the Bank of Portugal agreed to
provide the credit ceiling incentive to banks utilizing the line of credit
(para. 4.04).
4.15      As of January 31, 1983, approximately US$36.6 million of the revised
amount of the SMI I credit line (US$38.2 million) 2/ was committed, leaving a
balance of US$2.2 million. Some additional US$3 million are now awaiting
Bank's approval. Finally, in order to provide for possible reductions in
already approved subloans due to the continuing devaluation of the Escudo 3/,
the SMI projects under analysis by IAPMEI and the commercial banks could
present financing requirements valued at about US$4.7 million. This firm
pipeline will enable IAPMEI and the banks to commit the balance of the credit
line by the end of June 1983. After allowing for the one year delay in
effectiveness, all of the SMI I line of credit will have been committed in a
period of time that is about four months less than the original commitment
period estimated at appraisal. This is a noteworthy achievement in particular
because of the 15% increase in the credit line amount and the difficult
economic conditions in Portugal in recent years (particularly, the continuous
devaluation of the Escudo vis-a-vis the Dollar).
4.16      Details of the banks' participation in the line of credit as of
January 31, 1983 is shown in Annex 5. All banks in the system participated in
the credit line, although in varying degrees. CGD (accounting for 23% of
total commitment with 75 projects) was by far the major bank involved,
followed by Banco Portugues do Atlantico (BPA) with 21% of commitment in 101
projects.  The wide participation of the banks was largely the result of
IAPMEI's dynamic efforts (IAPMEI alone has identified and recommended for PBI
financing about 40% of all the approved subprojects), and of the keen interest
1/  This delay was due to the unresolved issue of improving  IAPMEI's statutes
(para. 5.09).
2/  To the original credit line of US$33.0 million was added US$5.2 million,
transferred from the Industrial Estates (EPPI) and Export Promotion Study
(FFE) components during March 1982.
3/  As of January 31, 1983, these amounted to US$3 million.  It is currently
expected that another 15 percent of approved sub-loans may still be
available again for commitment.



- 12 -
taken in the promotion of the credit line by the Central Bank staff.  Further
analysis of the approved subprojects shows that about 36% of the total
conmitment level was for engineering industries, 17% for textile industries,
16% for wood processing industries, and 9% for non-metallic industries.  This
wide sectoral distribution reflects the sectors where the medium and small
firms play an important role. A good equilibrium was also observed between
new, projects and expansion/modernization projects, as well as between the
three different investment size categories (Annex 6). About 72% of the Bank's
line of credit was invested in projects with export potential exceeding 20% of
their output. Disbursement of the SMI I credit line as of January 31, 1983
amounted to about US$12 million or 33% of commitment made; after some initial
delays because of procedural debugging, disbursement rate has picked up
satisfactorily in recent months.
4.17     Other sources of financing for SMI.  Since the late 1970s, the
European Investment Bank (EIB) has provided four credit lines to BFN for
firtancing SMI projects. The latest line (1981) amounted to EUA 30 million (or
US$30 million equivalent), available for financing medium scale investments
costing up to a maximum of US$12 million, with EIB financing 50% of the
investment cost plus working capital up to a maximum limit of US$4 million per
project.  In 1982, CGD also received from EIB a second credit line of US$20
million, US$4 million of which are being allocated for small projects with a
maximum investment US$300,000 and the balance of US$16 million for
medium-sized projects.  Finally, EIB has provided SPI (para. 4.01) with US$5
million equivalent also for SMI lending. The EIB credit lines have
complemented well the Bank's SMI I line, as the EIB lines aimed at higher SMI
siz;es. Their subproject eligibility criteria and appraisal standards are also
in line with the ones applied under SMI I.
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE SMI SECTOR
5.01     Institutional Framework.  The principal source of technical
assistance to SMI is the Institute for the Support of Small and Medium
Industries (IAPMEI), established in 1975 under the Ministry of Industry. Over
the period of 1979-1981, the total number of SMIs registered and assisted by
IAPMEI was some 11,000 or about 70% of all SMIs in the country. Its
activities consist of a number of financial support programs (para 4.13) and,
more importantly, a wide range of technical assistance actions carried out
primarily by its own staff but also in cooperation with other agencies.  These
can be broadly classified into three categories:  (i) the Government
controlled agencies (such as the National Laboratory for Industrial
Engineering and Technology (LNETI)) for technology development; the Export
Development Fund (FFE) for export marketing; the Directorate for Quality
Control (DGQ) for quality control; and academic institutions for training);
(ii) the consulting companies and individuals, both Portuguese and foreign
(IAPMEI maintains a comprehensive roster of more than 200 local and 30 foreign
consultants); and (iii) the geographical and sectoral industrial associations
with 21 of which IAPMEI has signed formal cooperation agreements mainly for
product and process knowhow, technical information etc.
5.02     IAPMEI's Activities.  Over the years, the scope of IAPMEI's technical
assistance services has essentially remained the same as described in detail
in the Staff Appraisal Report of the first SMI project (No. 2312-PO of April



- 13 -
24, 1979).  These services can be grouped as follows:  (i) assistance to
existing SMIs for their rehabilitation, expansion, diversification and
financial consolidation, through on-the-spot and short-term assistance
actions, and since 1982, a comprehensive program of problem diagnosis and
long-term technical assistance; (ii) promotion of new enterprises and new
product lines; (iii) promotion of cooperation between SMIs and larger
industries in similar and complementary industries; (iv) development of
institutions (technological, audiovisual, subcontracting and accounting
centers) that can provide collective technical assistance actions ; (v)
training of management and labor through formal courses, study tours and
dissemination of technical information.
5.03     The focus of IAPMEI's assistance actions has been on addressing the
technological, financial, marketing and organizational problems of individual
SMIs.  These services are primarily given by IAPMEI's staff, although outside
agencies and consultants are also used to complement its own capabilities when
dealing with specific technical issues.  Before 1982, this recourse to
external services was however rather limited by budgetary constraints, as the
cost of hiring outside experts for short-term problem diagnosis and
on-the-spot technical assistance is fully borne by IAPMEI's budget.  In
contrast, the cost of long-term technical assistance actions is shared between
IAPMEI and the recipient SMI, usually in the ratio of 75%:25%; or it may also
be financed with interest free loans given by IAPMEI to qualifying SMIs.  The
remaining SMI assistance actions (promotion of cooperative activities,
development of technical assistance institutions, training) are designed to
address the common needs of groups of SMIs.  The cooperative actions aim at
bringing groups of SMIs and larger firms together to pursue common interests
such as mergers, sub-contracting, joint export marketing, pollution control
and waste recovery. In the development of technical assistance institutions,
IAPMEI promotes and finances part of the start-up investment and incremental
personnel costs, the balance being borne by the participating industrial
associations.  IAPMEI's training activities focus essentially on organizing
study tours, courses on specific trades, marketing, finance, accounting,
management, and placing trainees within enterprises.  In 1981 alone, IAPMEI
has added about 2,000 to its register of SMIs receiving one or several types
of its support; some 270 of these SMIs have also received financial assistance
from the Bank under the SMI I line.  IAPMEI's technical actions over the past
two years are analyzed in para. 5.08 below.
5.04     During 1982, the scope and coverage of IAPMEI's services was
substantially increased through the implementation of a special SMI assistance
program financed with an EEC grant of US$10 million equivalent. The program,
to be completed by end of 1983, is designed to prepare and assist eligible
existing SMIs to face the strong competitive pressures expected to develop
after Portugal's entry into the EEC in 1984. The program complements some of
IAPMEI's ongoing services and provides financing for:  (i) long-term support
to 120 SMI enterprises through investment subsidies and comprehensive
technical assistance program; (ii) consultancy services for problem diagnosis
and for implementation of short-term corrective actions in 400 enterprises;
(iii) establishment of four technical centers (electronics, metrology, meat
and wood), expansion of four existing institutes (ceramics, leather, foundry
and welding) and further development of accounting, subcontracting and
audiovisual centers; and (iv) training.  The EEC grant together with the



- 14 -
Portuguese Government's matching funds have increased IAPMEI's total budget
about three-fold, from Esc. 182 million (US$2.8 million equivalent) in 1981 to
about Esc. 685 million (US$8.5 million equivalent) in 1982. About 41% of the
EEC and Portuguese special funds are earmarked for SMI long-term support and
investment subsidy, 38% for development of technical assistance institutions,
9% for short-term problem diagnosis and follow-up assistance, and 12% for
training. The implementation of the EEC program is proceeding according to
schedule: IAPMEI has identified over 450 projects, of which 60 (with total
investment requirements of US$30 million equivalent) have been started to
receive its long-term structural support; another group of 60 projects are to
be selected in late 1982 for assistance during 1983. IAPMEI has also chosen
seven consulting companies to carry out with its staff the diagnostic phase
for 180 SMI enterprises; work is already well under way.  Establishment and
expansion of technical, accounting and audiovisual centers and training have
commienced.
5.05     IAPMEI's Organization.  IAPMEI has a current staff of 248, of whom
122 are technical professionals, and 50 technical assistants.  Its overall
poli.cy direction is set by a Board of Directors consisting of the President,
thre!e Vice Presidents (each heading a regional office - North, Center and
Sout:h) and a Consultative Council (with representatives from the Ministries
Industry, of Finance, Trade and Labour and Bank of Portugal). At present,
activity planning and coordination, investment promotion, appraisal of larger
projects (with investment cost exceeding US$600,000 equivalent), approvals of
guarantees, technical assistance programs and staff deployment are made in
Lisbon; these tasks occupy about one third of the professional staff. The
rematining two thirds are distributed among the seven field offices in the
three regions, and are in charge of delivering technical assistance and
supervising projects which have been approved for IAPMEI assistance, and of
appraising new projects with investment cost below US$600,000.  The
professional staff (both at headquarters as well as in the regional and field
offices) are organized into teams of one engineer and one economist each (five
teams in the Lisbon head office, 14 in the South, nine in the Center and 11 in
the North regions).  The number and sectoral specialization of the regional
teams are consistent with the total number of SMIs serviced and the types of
industries located in each region.
5.06     To seek greater participation of the regional staff in IAPMEI's
decision making process, and also to make its work programs and priorities
more responsive to the needs of the individual regions, the Government may
plan. to further decentralize IAPMEI by raising the status of the Porto and
Coimibra regional offices to Regional Institutes for the North and the Center,
and turning the existing Lisbon headquarters into the Regional Institute for
the South.  Each regional management 1/ would have full authority over all
operational matters in its region (including financial and technical
assistance decisions), however within the scope of the national overall
policy.  A Central Office, located in Lisbon with a management board 2/ and
1/ Each of the three Regional Institutes would have a directive board
consisting of Regional Director and representatives of SMI (1), Ministry
of Labour (1), banks (1) and Technological Centers (1).
2/ The Board would now consist of three members (president and vice
presidents) and the Consultative Council would include representatives of
Ministry of Industry (3), Ministries of Finance (1), Labour (1) and Trade
(1), LNETI (1), Bank of Portugal (1), commercial banks (2), regional
commissions (3), trade unions (2) and SMIs (2).  The Consultative Council
would meet twice each year.



- 15 -
eight servicing units, would be in charge of overall policy formulation and
promotion for, as well as coordination and quality control of the regional
activities. This reorganization would entail a net increase in IAPMEI staff
by 24 bringing the total to 272; about 35% of this new total would work in the
Central Office. No decision has yet been made on this planned reorganization.
5.07      If realized, this decentralization should increase the effectiveness
of IAPMEI staff in the medium-term because of the resulting greater autonomy
in the organization of staff skills and work programs, better staff
motivation, proximity to SMIs and more expeditious management decisions. For
the near term however, the maintenance of the quality of assistance,
particularly in project appraisal, may be a matter of some concern.  IAPNEI
management has assured the Bank however that, if decentralization is made, the
internal quality control procedures (which include screening of appraisal
reports by a central service responsible for coordination and quality control,
hereafter referred to as review unit 1/, before submission to the Bank) would
be retained in the new Central Office, similarly to the arrangement for the
SMI I credit line. This procedure is satisfactory.
5.08      Performance and Evaluation.  Since its creation, IAPMEI has made
impressive progress towards designing and implementing effective programs of
assistance to the SMI segment of the manufacturing sector. Initially involved
primarily in SMI financial rescue operations, IAPMEI has shifted its emphasis
over the years towards more fundamental long-term support of existing
enterprises and promotion of new enterprises, both of which are in line with
the objectives of the first and proposed SNI projects. These structural
assistance actions have increased from about 220 in 1980 to about 330 in 1981
and are expected to be 750 in 1982; assistance for promotion of new SMIs has
also increased from 50 in 1980 to 100 in 1981 and should be 120 in 1982.
Among the collective actions, two activities (development of technical
assistance institutions and training) have been important in that they have
enabled IAPMEI to disseminate technical assistance to a larger number of SMIs
in a more cost effective manner.
5.09      Despite this impressive quantitative performance, there have been
several shortcomings, two most important of which are: first, inadequate
appraisal of projects in some cases and poor project supervision in general
resulting from the excessive workload of the professional staff. This
over-extension is a consequence of the rapid growth in the volume and
complexity of IAPMEI's operations compared to the more modest increase in
IAPMEI's staff. A related issue has been the general difficulty in replacing
the departing experienced staff, largely due to limitations in IAPMEI's
statutes, prohibiting recruitment from outside the public sector in addition
to keeping its salaries at levels less attractive than competing institutions
(e.g. commercial banks). This problem may be resolved if the number of
experienced staff or their salary structure was to be increased. This is
however not possible because of current overall budgetary constraints in
Portugal; more importantly, it is not desirable because IAPMEI should not aim
at having full coverage and proficiency in every field lest it would become
unmanageable and inefficient. A rational solution to the problem would be to
1/ This review unit consists at present of a staff of three professionals;
its official responsibilities within IAPMEI is for credit control and
inf ormation.



- 16 -
reduce the staff workload through judicious changes in the work scope and
approach. For the longer term, IAPMEI will need therefore to strengthen
further its long-term support activities and reorient itself towards
subcontracting these actions in enterprises to external experts, while
IAPMEI's own staff would focus more on coordinating and monitoring the quality
and progress of these actions. This re-orientation would help extend IAPMEI's
staff capacities and alleviate its own budget constraints (these consultants'
costs being generally borne in part by the SMI recipients, para. 5.03); it
should also help promote the development of local private consulting industry
in Portugal. IAPMEI is moving in this direction and assurance was obtained
from IAPMEI that its consultant budget will be maintained at adequate levels
as defined in para. 6.26 (i).
5.10     Second, there is not yet a mechanism to make sure that the SKIs in
need of technical assistance would indeed acquire such assistance. The
problem partly stems from the general reluctance of SMI entrepreneurs to
accept outside assistance in solving problems, and partly from the fact that
financing banks have not so far exploited fully their leverage to ensure that
the required technical assistance is actually carried out when deemed
necessary for the investment projects. The first aspect of the problem is a
long-term issue and cannot be fully resolved during the implementation of the
proposed project. The increasing number of assistance actions by IAPMEI
during the past few years does suggest nevertheless that SMI entrepreneurs
have responded favorably to IAPMEI's promotion efforts and are more
forthcoming now in seeking outside assistance in resolving their problems. As
regards the second, the consultation channels between IAPMEI and financial
institutions developed under the SMI I project have initiated a framework for
better formulation of subproject technical assistance programs. Further
strengthening of these arrangements is developed in the proposed project
(para. 6.27).
VI. THE PROJECT
6.01     Project Objectives.  The proposed project is a follow up of the first
SMI project (loan 1701-PO). The objectives of the project are to.
(i) support, through a program of financial and technical assistance, and
incentive policy dialogue, the investment and rehabilitation programs
of Portuguese SMIs to improve their efficiency and diversify their
product structure, in preparation for Portugal's accession to the EEC;
(ii) ensure the long-term viability of existing employment in SMIs and
create new ones at a moderate capital cost per job; and
(iii) continue to strengthen the appraisal and support capacities of
financial and technical assistance institutions serving SMIs.
6.02     These objectives are consistent with the industrial strategy adopted
by the Portuguese Government and -supported by the Bank for the development of
the industrial sector (para. 2.05).



- 17 -
6.03     Project Elements.  The proposed project aims at meeting the above
objectives as through;
(i)  providing a credit line of US$40 million to be channelled through the
banking system and IAPMEI to finance eligible SMI investment projects
to construct buildings, purchase goods and services for the creation
of new SMI enterprises, or the modernization, expansion, quality
control and energy conservation in existing enterprises (paras. 6.06
to 6.08);
(ii)  supporting the ongoing technical assistance activities of IAPMEI for
SMIs (paras 6.23-6.28); and
(iii)  continuing with the Government the policy dialogue to improve the
present investment incentive system, especially as related to
industrial restructuring (para. 6.30). These incentive reforms are
longer term goals, towards which the authorities are already moving.
6.04     Coordination with Other Bank Operations.  Within the Bank's program
of support to the industrial sector in Portugal, the proposed loan would be
complementary to tne US$100 million Bank loan to BFN (effective June 16,
1981), and the US$30 million Bank's Industrial Energy Efficiency project (not
yet effective), both of which aim principally at investment projects and
enterprises that are generally larger than those eligible under the proposed
project 1/.
A. SMI CREDIT LINE
6.05     Size of the Proposed Credit Line.  Based on past results, IAPMEI's
own promotional efforts may be expected to yield a pipeline of SMI investment
projects requiring up to US$30 million in foreign exchange during 1984-1985
representing about 100 projects. Although similar projections are not
available from the banks expected to participate in the SMI II project, based
on the experience under the first SMI credit line, it may be estimated that
the SMI pipeline to be promoted directly by banks during the same time period
may require another US$20 million in foreign exchange financing. Taking into
account the continued uncertainties in the Portuguese investment climate, the
amount of US$40 million appears reasonable for this proposed SMI credit line
to be utilized over a period of two years. As with the first credit line, the
proposed credit is conceived as part of a series to be arranged to the extent
possible as and when additional resources are required.
6.06     Target Group and Eligibility Criteria.  As with the first SMI credit
line, the proposed credit line would be open to all SMI subprojects which meet
an investment size criterion as well as a labor intensity criterion, and are
assessed to be technically, financially and economically viable by IAPMEI
(para. 6.08).  The investment size eligibility criterion would continue to be
aligned to the Portuguese definition of SMIs (para 3.01), with, however, two
qualifications.  First, to ensure that the impact of the proposed second SMI
loan would be concentrated on smaller SMls, the total investment cost
(including permanent working capital as well as appropriate physical and price
1/ Except for the small leasing component (US$6 million) setting up leasing
facility for SMIs' energy conserving equipment.  Coordination with this
component is ensured via the proposals found in paras. 6.06 and 6.08.



- 18 -
contingencies, but excluding land) will not exceed Esc. 95 million (about US$1
million equivalent) in October 1982 prices.. Second, to avoid financing small
expansions of large concerns, the ceiling in the case of expansion or
modernization will be Esc. 245 million in October 1982 prices (US$2.7 million
equivalent) of net fixed assets after project realization.  The increase being
proposed for the investment cost ceiling is a reasonable adjustment of the
first SMI line criteria 1/ and justified by changes in the investment
environment since 1979.  To be consistent with the Bank's Industrial Energy
Efficiency project, the investment size limit for subprojects solely aimed at
energy conservation would be set at Esc. 50 million (or about US$562,000) in
October 1982 prices.
6.07      To ensure that subprojects financed under the proposed line of credit
meel: the labor intensity objective (para 6.01 (ii)), the investment cost per
job will not exceed Esc. 3 million in October 1982 prices (about US$34,000
equi.valent), a ceiling which is consistent in real terms with the one used
under the first line of credit.  In the case of new or expansion projects, the
ratio will be computed using the proposed investment cost divided by the
number of jobs to be created. In the case of modernization/reorganization
projects, the cost per job ratio will be computed as net fixed assets after
project realization divided by the number of jobs to be created and
maintained.  The investment cost per job criterion would not apply to
subprojects intended solely for quality control or energy conservation. All
the above investment size and cost per job ceilings will be adjusted twice a
year to reflect inflation.
6.08      To ensure an appropriate financial structure for the SMIs, at least
25% of the total investment financing of new projects would have to be in
equity form; for expansion projects, the owner's equity as proportion of the
total net value of fixed assets (including land) after the completion of the
project should also be 25%. For the viability of the investment itself, a
minimum financial rate of return of 12% will be required for all subprojects.
For subprojects with investment cost exceeding Esc. 60 million in October 1982
prices (about US$680,000 equivalent), the additional calculation of the
economic rate of return will also be required using the guidelines set out by
the Bank for DFC subprojects 2/; a minimum rate of 12% will be set.  For all
SMI subprojects aiming solely at energy conservation, a simple payback will be
used, with a maximum payback period of six years calculated on the basis of
the equipment cost and annual energy savings valued at the CIF import price of
petroleum.  This criterion and methodology are the same as the ones used by
the Government in approving incentives under its ongoing energy conservation
scheme, as well as with the eligibility criterion used under the Bank's recent
Industrial Energy Efficiency project.
6.091     Channelling Mechanism for the Proposed Loan.  The institutional
mechanism used for the SEI I credit line has been working satisfactorily; the
same! procedures are proposed for this second line.  Thus, the proposed loan
will. be made to the Government with the proceeds of the loan being transmitted
through a special account in the Bank of Portugal, and made available to
eligible SMIs through the intermediation of the participating banking
1/ The maximum investment cost applied under the SMI I line is Esc. 70
million or about US$0.80 million in October 1982 prices and exchange rate.
2/  "Guidelines for calculating Financial and Economic Returns of DFC
Projects" by Mr. G. L. Hyde, dated June 25, 1982.



- 19 -
institutions and IAPBMEI. Under the first line of credit, all nine commercial
banks and CGD as well as BFN have participated, although in varying degrees
(para 4.16). Similarly to the first credit line, a condition of effectiveness
would be that at least three institutions (accounting for at least 40% of the
total assets of the group) sign with the Bank of Portugal and IAPMEI a
financing agreement satisfactory to the Bank, in which (aside from the
eligibility criteria) the role and responsibilities of each party will be
described in details, based on the following principles.
6.10     The participating banks would continue to identify eligible SMI
subprojects and appraise them in line with their standard procedures, and with
special focus on aspects discussed in para. 6.13. The participating banks
alone would decide whether to finance an SMI project, using the proceeds of
the Bank line of credit and their own resources as appropriate.  In so doing,
the participating banks may choose to use the SMI credit guarantee provided by
IAPMEI under existing regulations (para 4.13) in their credit risk evaluation.
6.11     IAPMEI would assist in the identification of SMI subprojects, as well
as their appraisal, particularly the technical and design aspects.  The review
unit in Lisbon (para. 5.07) would also continue to act on behalf of the Bank
to: (i) verify that the subprojects to be financed under the proposed line of
credit are technically, financially and economically viable and meet the
agreed eligibility criteria; (ii) coordinate the follow up on project
implementation; and (iii) help provide investors with needed technical
assistance, and/or refer them to appropriate organizations/ individual
consultants to undertake this assistance work.  In the cases where the subloan
approval or disbursement is conditional on a technical assistance action
program (para 6.27), IAPMEI and the financing bank would work together to
ensure that the agreed action program is properly implemented by the SMI
borrowers.
6.12     As before, the Bank of Portugal would serve as the apex institution
to centralize the administration of the credit line, channel disbursements and
repayments on SMI subloans, etc (para 6.17). The signing of an Agency
Agreement between the Government and the Bank of Portugal satisfactory to the
Bank would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Bank loan.
6.13     Subproject Appraisal Procedures.  The subproject appraisal
procedures, as adjusted during the implementation of the first SMI line of
credit, have worked well; they would be continued and remain simple. The
appraisal standards in terms of quality have been generally good, although
still uneven with regards to the technical features of the subprojects. The
experience gained from the SMI I line suggests that subproject appraisal can
be improved if both the financing banks and IAPMEI would pay more attention
to: (i) ensure that existing and new production facilities are properly
balanced; (ii) allow adequate provision for price and physical contingencies
in the total investment cost; (iii) verify the availability of equity declared
by the SMI sponsors; and (iv) establish an agreed technical assistance action
program and implementation timetable, wherever necessary (para. 6.27). These
matters will be specifically covered in the appraisal report of all
subprojects financed under the proposed loan. The past appraisal shortcomings
were also partly caused by inadequate technical staff in most of the



20 -
commercial banks, which has not been offset by the technical assistance
provided by IAPMEI.  This service to the banks from IAPMEI has been itself
limited because of IAPMEI's staff constraints (para. 5.09).  Agreements have
been confirmed during negotiations with IAPMEI on the needed re-orientations
for its future work programs to allow more focus on this design review
function (para 6.26).
6.14     Subproject Review and Approval Procedures.  As under the first SMI
line of credit, the Bank would continue to approve all subprojects whose
investment cost exceeds the free limit of Esc. 43 million (or US$485,000
equivalent in October 1982 prices and exchange rate), with IAPMEI reviewing
and approving subprojects under this limit. IAPMEI's review unit will follow
agreed guidelines (available in the Project File) in its review of all
subproject appraisal reports, and record its assessment of each such report
(and special recommendations if any) in a brief Review Note (agreed format in
Project File) to be written in English and sent to the Bank.  Promptly after
approving the free limit subprojects, IAPMEI would send to the Bank a copy of
the appropriate Review Note. Given the satisfactory performance of IAPMEI
under the SMI I line and to increase the effectiveness of the Bank's
involvement, subproject review procedures would be revised as follows 1/;
every six months, the Bank would select from the subproject pipeline available
at IAPMEI and PBIs a sample of at least six subprojects 2/, and examine their
technical, financial, and economic aspects with relevant staff of IAPMEI and
the sponsoring PBI during its supervision mission.  For subprojects over the
free limit in the sample, an appraisal report would be translated into English
ancl sent (together with IAPMEI's Review Note) to the Bank for review and
approval.  If the quality of the appraisal reports and Review Notes for the
subprojects of any PBI being sampled proves satisfactory, the Bank would,
until the next sampling process is completed, expect to approve subprojects
over the free limit from that PBI on the basis of IAPMEI's assessment as found
in its Review Note, without requiring an appraisal report for each subproject
to be presented to the Bank.  If, however, the quality of the sampled
appraisal reports from any PBI is not satisfactory, then the Bank would, until
satisfactory quality is shown, continue to require appraisal reports (in
English) as part of its review and approval of subprojects over the free limit
from that PBI.  Details of the above review procedures are recorded in the
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations.
6. 15    This proposed Bank's subproject review procedures would help reduce
delays in subproject approval and at the same time allow the Bank a deeper
appraisal review of, and more direct institution-building contact with PBIs
and IAPMEI for at least 24 subprojects out of an expected total of about 100 -
150 subprojects to be financed. This represents on average a satisfactory
minimum sampling of 20% of the number of subprojects, and about 25% of the
loan amount.
6.16     Supervision of Subprojects and Periodic Review of Credit Line
Performance.  The sponsoring banks, IAPMEI and the Bank of Portugal will each
supervise Bank-financed subprojects, but each from a different point of view:
essentially risk assessment for the banks, eligibility and technical
1/  For the purpose of these review procedures, subprojects promoted by IAP4EI
will be regarded as subprojects of the financing PBI.
2/ This sampling would be based on current subsectoral priorities/interests;
should include at least three PBIs each time; and may include a number of
subprojects below the free limit.



- 21 -
assistance for IAPMEI, and disbursement procedures for the Bank of Portugal.
To harmonize these different view points, IAPMEI will prepare for the Bank an
annual supervision report covering an agreed sample of approved SMI
subprojects on the basis of data provided by the banks and the Bank of
Portugal. The format of this report will contain an analysis by; (i) IAPMEI,
of the progress in project implementation (construction, equipment
installation, production, etc...) for each subproject compared to the original
implementation schedule as proposed in the appraisal report, the problems
encountered by each subproject together with the status of their resolution
and the actual capacity utilization, sales, production costs, exports etc. of
the enterprise as compared with the projections made in the appraisal report;
(ii) the Bank of Portugal, of the status in subloan disbursement; and (iii)
the sponsoring bank, of the sub-borrower's repayment performance.  In
addition, every three months, IAPMEI and Bank of Portugal will prepare for the
Bank a short progress report presenting actual total commitment and
disbursement under the credit line, to include any change in the committed
amount for each subloan.
6.17     Disbursement Procedures.  As for the SMI I credit line, Bank of
Portugal will continue to receive from the financing banks documentation
justifying expenses actually incurred for approved subloans, the maximum
amount of these subloans being 65% of the corresponding total investment costs
(para. 6.21). Upon satisfactory verification, Bank of Portugal will request
reimbursement from the Bank in a certified monthly statement of expenditures.
6.18     As a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Bank loan, the Bank
of Portugal would open a special account to be administered by the small unit
currently in charge of the SMI I special account. The responsibilities of
this unit will continue to be: (i) maintain an accounting system for
subprojects for which commitment of Bank funds is approved; (ii) prepare and
send to the Bank monthly statement of expenditures requesting withdrawal of
funds from the credit line; (iii) receive funds disbursed by the Bank, channel
them to the participating banks, collect from these intermediaries payments of
interest and principal, and transfer these funds to the Treasury for servicing
of the Bank loan; (iv) hold all documentation related to each SMI subloan for
review by Bank supervision missions; and (v) keep track of all subloan
commitment and disbursement amounts as well as update them to take into
account possible increases or cancellations when the subprojects are completed.
6.19     Audit Procedures.  The records and accounts maintained by the Bank of
Portugal for the credit line and the approved subprojects (para 6.18) would
continue to be audited each fiscal year by the Audit Council of the Bank of
Portugal, who would prepare a report certifying that the amounts received and
paid by Bank of Portugal for the loan and individual sub-loans together with
the documentary evidence used by Bank of Portugal as basis for withdrawal of
Bank funds are satisfactory.  This report will be sent to the Bank no later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year in question.  The Bank has
examined the legal provisions establishing the Audit Council as well as the
Internal Audit Department, and found that this Council together with the staff
support from the Internal Audit Department do meet the normal standards of
independence from the entity under audit, suitable qualifications and
satisfactory experience.



- 22 -
6.20     Procurement.  Given the small size of the maximum eligible investment
subproject (US$1.0 million equivalent) and the expected average investment
size (US$562,000) (para. 6.06), international competitive bidding is
operationally not the most effective approach. The Portuguese procurement
practice of three price quotations is widely used among enterprises and
conmercial banks, and is satisfactory.
6.21     Terms and Conditions of Subloans.  As under the SMI I credit line,
the upper limit possible for Bank financing is 65% l/ of the total investment
cost of the eligible SMI subprojects. The maturity of the individual subloans
would be in line with the economic life of the equipment to be financed.   The
maximum duration of any subloan however should not exceed 12 years, including
a grace period of up to 3 years for principal repayment. Based on the first
credit line, it is expected that the average maturity of SMI subloans will be
about 5-7 years, including about 1 year of grace.  The SMI investors would pay
to the financing bank the floating 2/ interest rate applicable to similar
mediumrterm credits available in escudo (currently 26% and positive as
discussed in para 4.05). The difference between this on-lending rate and the
Bank's lending rate (currently 11.5%) would be apportioned as follows: 0.75%
for Banco de Portugal; 1.50% for IAPMEI 3/; 3.5% for the participating banks;
and the balance (now about 9%) for the Treasury to cover foreign exchange risk
(para 4.08). This fund would also take care of the possible interest rate
risk associated with the Bank's variable lending rate. Agreements on the
above have been confirmed during negotiations and recorded in the Loan
Agreement.
6.22     Incentive for Participating Banks.  The credit ceiling incentive
currently granted by Bank of Portugal to the participating banks (para 4.04)
has been an essential factor in the satisfactory rate of utilization of the
SMI I credit line.  In the opinion of the participating banks, as long as the
liquidity in the banking system continues to be high, an incentive mechanism
will be a pre-requisite to their utilization of the proposed SMI II credit
line. The Government, and in particular the Bank of Portugal, has agreed to
continue the current credit ceiling incentive for participating banks.
Confirmation of this agreement was obtained during negotiations and recorded
in the Loan Agreement and the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations.
B. Technical Assistance
6.23     Objective and Description.  An effective system to deliver technical
assistance to SMIs, whether or not they are recipients of Bank's financial
assistance, is essential to the success of the proposed project. As indicated
in Chapter V, IAPMEI is the major institution providing and coordinating
technical assistance services to SMIs in Portugal.  IAPMEI and its activity
programs over 1983-1985 (which is the expected duration of the proposed
project) would therefore form the core of the technical assistance component
in the proposed project, although not financed by the Bank under this project.
1/  This percentage corresponds approximately to the foreign exchange cost of
SMI investments.
2/  This means that the subloan interest rate is not locked in at the time of
contract signing between the SMI and the financing bank.  In effect, this
interest rate can become higher or lower depending on the changes in the
overall interest rate structure set by the Bank of Portugal.
3/ This is increased from the 1% allocated to IAPMEI for the SMI I credit
line.



- 23 -
6.24     IAPMEI's work program for 1983 has been reviewed by the Bank and
found to be satisfactory. IAPMEI's activities will be essentially the same as
in 1982 (paras 5.02-5.03), with highest priority given to completing the
assistance actions initiated last year under the EEC program. This will allow
IAPMEI to strengthen its own program of structural support for existing SMIs,
and to continue developing the technical institutions for specialized and
collective services to SMIs. Problem diagnosis in enterprise would be carried
out for about 200 SMIs, in addition to the 180 already serviced during 1982
(para 5.04 (iii)), and the specialized technical institutions started in 1982
would be fully set-up (para 5.04 (ii)). The total 1983 budget allocated by
the Government to IAPMEI (Esc. 978 million or US$11 million equivalent in
October 1982 prices) is found to be adequate, both with regard to IAPMEI's own
ordinary budget (20% of the total) as well as to the special Government funds
(40%) to match the EEC grant for 1983 (40%).  From  IAPMEI's 1983 ordinary
budget, the envelope earmarked for hiring external consulting services account
for about 11%, remaining at the same level as for 1982 in real terms. Adding
to these the special (Portugese and EEC) funds for consultant services within
the EEC program, the total consultant budget available in 1983 for IAPMEI to
finance specialized consulting services for SMI long-term technical assistance
(e.g., diagnosis services and implementation of corrective actions) is
estimated to be Esc. 50.9 million (about US$575,000 equivalent in October 1982
prices and exchange rate). This is consistent with the technical assistance
delivery approach that IAPMEI intends to follow: namely, increased
sub-contracting of external consultants to carry out technical assistance
actions in enterprises, with IAPNEI staff focussed more on reviewing,
coordinating and monitoring of the quality and progress of such actions.
Finally, the distribution of IAPMEI's financial resources between the regions
and central office is found to be in line with the work reponsibilities being
assigned to them.
6.25     For the years beyond, IAPMEI's future work programs should be
formulated so as to address the problems described earlier (para 5.09 through
5.11). IAPMEI agrees with the needed reorientations, and in fact, given the
limited prospects for increasing its technical staff in the near term, intends
to take several steps to optimize the use of its staff time, among which four
are important: (i) to use more external consultant services to complement its
own staff in the actual delivery of technical assistance actions in
enterprises (para 6.24); (ii) to ask its SMI beneficiaries to contribute
towards the cost of its services (about Esc. 12 million is already forecasted
for 1983).  IAPMEI expects that such user charges would enable it to identify
the SMIs who are most genuinely interested in its services, and most
importantly, to increase the accountability of its staff because of the higher
expectations from SMIs paying for services; (iii) to evaluate staff and
activity performance and consolidate its various action programs to increase
its overall effectiveness; and (iv) to strengthen its monitoring activities of
SMIs as well as its follow up of the actions in (i) above.  These orientations
are in the right direction. They form a sensible framework to guide IAPMEI in
the formulation of its future work programs.
6.26     Because of the importance of IAPMEI's activities for Portuguese SMI
development in general, and for the proposed SMI project in particular,
agreements were obtained during negotiations that; (i) IAPMEI would maintain



- 24 -
its program of specialized consulting services for long-term technical
assistance to SMI enterprises at least at the 1983 level (para. 6.24) for the
disbursement period of the credit line. To finance this program, IAPMEI would
allocate the equivalent of its available income from its spread on the SMI
lines of credit (para. 6.21) and fees obtained for its services from SRI
clients (para. 6.25 (ii)), and if necessary, reallocate normal budgetary
resources currently used for activities that IAPMEI expects to increasingly
reassign to specialized, technical centers currently being strengthened (e.g.,
accounting centers, leather center, para. 5.04 (iii)); and (ii) IAPMI and the
Bank would review IAPMEI's annual work program over the disbursement period of
the line, the first such review to take place by the end of 1983 for the
forthcoming year. Both of these agreements are recorded in the Project
Agreement and the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations of the proposed project.
6.27     Link between Financial Assistance and Technical Assistance.  To
ensure that a SMI subproject in need of technical assistance and to be
financed under the proposed credit line, would indeed receive it, IAPMEI would
specifically assess such need during its subproject appraisal and review (para
6.13 (iv)).  IAPMEI would then inform the SMl and the sponsoring bank of its
assessment, and after review with the concerned parties, refer the SMI either
to IAPMEI's own technical services or to a competent external agency/
individual experts for implementation.  Should the sponsoring bank and IAPMEI
feel that these actions are essential for the success of the subproject, an
appropriate technical assistance program may be made a condition under the
subproject agreement.
6.28     Environmental Aspects of Subprojects.  Based on the pipeline of
subprojects likely to be financed under this project, subprojects in
industrial activities with potential environmental impacts are small in scale
of operations (para. 7.01). Thus, their environmental implications are
expected to be minimal. Moreover Portuguese environmental standards are
generally in conformity with the EEC standards and these have been and would
be applied to SMI subprojects.  It has been and is IAP4EI's practice to review
such aspects as part of its subproject appraisal procedures and to seek the
help of specialized agencies for remedial measures when necessary. This
arrangement is satisfactory for the proposed project.
C. Investment Incentive Policy
6.29     As discussed  in Chapter III, an effective investment incentive
scheme is an important element in the policy framework needed to effectively
promote structural transformation and modernization within the Portuguese
industries.  In the June 1982 industrial policy discussions between the
Government and the Bank, the Bank recommended 1/ that: (i) the magnitude of
investment subsidies under the SIII be reduced, (ii) their scope be more
narrowly defined than at present, and possibly restricted only to genuine
infant industry cases; (iii) the subsidies to encouraging restructuring of
existing industries be dealt with separately from - although consistently with
- the general investment promotion incentives, as should subsidies introduced
for the salvage of companies in financial difficulty; (iv) the incentives be
made available equally to investments designed to modernize and upgrade
capacities as to those investments for expanding capacities; and (v) the
administration of the scheme be simplified. As a first step in this
1/ Portugal: Policies for Industrial Restructuring, op. cit.



- 25 -
direction, the Portuguese authorities propose to:  (a) maintain the SIII
scheme for larger investments but with modifications to increase the degree of
selectiveness to reduce its costs, and to simplify its procedures, and (b)
create in parallel a more simplified and somewhat more automatic incentive
scheme with reliance on fiscal incentives for smaller investments. (
6.30      Because these incentive measures will have important effects on the
efficient growth of existing and future SMIs (which represent the majority of
private enterprises in Portugal, and the focus of this proposed project),
agreement has been confirmed with the Government during negotiations on the
principle of periodic working consultations between the Government and the
Bank to examine the experience gained under the current investment incentive
framework and discuss appropriate follow up measures to achieve the objectives
(i) through (v) in para. 6.29 above.  The first such consultation would begin
no later than January 31, 1984.  It is expected that these discussions would
help identify a consistent and constructive approach for Bank assistance to
the industrial sector in Portugal, and in particular, ensure proper
coordination between the general incentives and other more specific measures
which may be set up for subsectoral restructuring (e.g., textiles, EMI). The
Government's agreement on all the above is recorded in the Agreed Minutes of
Negotiations.
6.31      Project Completion Dates.  The final date of subproject submission
and the closing date would be September 30, 1986 and March 31, 1989
respectively, both dates incorporating a 6-month contingency. Commitment and
disbursement estimates for the credit line are given in Annex 7.  The proposed
loan to the Government would have a fixed amortization schedule based on a 15
year maturity, including 3 years of grace.
VII. Project Benefits and Risks
7.01      Benefits.  The proposed credit line is expected to finance between
100 and 150 SMI projects, divided equally between investments for structural
transformations and modernization, and those for creation of new enterprises.
About 75% of these eligible projects are expected to be in the smaller end of
the investment sizes (about Esc. 43 million or some US3485,000 in 1982
prices). Based on an average cost per job of Esc. 1.3-1.8 million (or about
US$15,000-20,200), the investment projects to be financed under the SMI II
project are expected to create about 1,900 -2,600 jobs.  The technical
assistance component should help improve the performance of not only the
subprojects to be financed under the loan, but also other SMIs already part of
IAPMEI's service coverage.
7.02      In addition to the above direct benefits, and at least as important,
the proposed second SMI credit line would continue the institution-building
efforts started two years ago with the first line.  It is also expected to
encourage the Portuguese banking system not only to provide adequate financing
for SMIs but more importantly to develop a capability for long-term financing
based on appropriate project analysis and follow up.  In addition, the project
would provide the Bank with a concrete opportunity for working with the
Government to formulate much needed incentive reforms and ensure their proper
coordination within the industrial investment incentive system.



- 26 -
7.03     Risks.  The major risk implied in the proposed project derives from a
potential slow utilization by the participating banks.  This risk may result
from two factors.  First, the participation of banks may be less active than
needed, in view of the current interest rate structure and credit ceiling
policy of Bank of Portugal. With the experience of the first credit line,
precaution has been taken in the design of the second line to give the
participating banks adequate incentives to finance SMIs and use the Bank
funds: (i) streamlined subproject review, approval and disbursement
procedures (para 6.14-6.17); and most importantly (ii) a Bank of Portugal's
incentive measure with regard to the individual bank's credit ceiling (para
6.22) . Furthermore, this risk would also be reduced by the fact that the
cooperation of at least two major banks in the system is reasonably assured;
BPA and CGD (the two largest users of the SMI I credit line) have expressed
their continued interest in the proposed project.  Second, the present
investment climate may be worse than expected, thus depressing further the
rat:e of SMI investment.  The investment incentive reforms expected to be
formulated during the project implementation should help limit somewhat this
general risk (para 6.30).  It is expected nevertheless that, because the loan
amount has been quite conservatively estimated, the proposed credit line
shoulci be substantially committed by March 1986 (para. 6.31).
7.04     Another project-specific risk relates to the possible lower-than-
expected quality of subprojects after implementation.  Although it is still
too early to obtain full lessons from the actual experience of the first SMI I
credit line (para. 4.14), care has been taken in the design of this project to
strengthen the project appraisal and follow up capabilities of IAPMEI as well
as of the financing banks (paras 6.13 and 6.16). This risk should also be
limited for two reasons:  (i)  the linking of subproject financing to the
implementation of specific technical assistance actions when these are deemed
fundamental to the success of the investment project eligible for Bank
financing (para 6.27); and (ii) the Bank's own supervision of the credit line
(in particular, the revised subproject review and monitoring procedures
(para 6.14) is expected to improve the project appraisal and follow-up
standards of the participating banks and IAPMEI).  In conclusion, all the
above risks are well worth taking in view of the importance of SMI in
Portugal's industrial structure (Chapter III).
VIII. Recommendations
8.01     The credit line (USq4Q.0 million) would be available to finance SMI
investment projects meeting agreed eligibility criteria (paras. 6.06-6.08).
The final date for submission of subprojects to the Bank would be September
30, 1986, and the closing date would be March 31, 1989 1/. Essential to the
project, although not financed by the Bank, are the Technical Assistance
component (as represented by IAPMEI's activities, paras. 6.23-6.27) and the
Investment Incentive Policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank
(paras. 6.29-6.30).  The loan would be repaid according to a fixed
amortization schedule not to exceed 15 years with three year grace period.
The loan is subject to a front-end fee of US$0.3 million.
1/ A six-month extension has been incorporated as a contingency.



- 27 -
8.02     The proposed loan of US$40.0 million to the Portuguese Government for
the financing of SMI subprojects through the intermediation of Portuguese
banking and of associated technical assistance institutions is suitable for
Bank financing, given that the following agreements and understandings have
been reached during negotiations.
(a) SMI subproject eligibility criteria, subloan terms, definition of
foreign exchange cost, coverage of foreign exchange and interest rate
risk (Loan Agreement) (paras. 6.06, 6.07, 6.08 and 6.21);
(b) distribution of responsibilities between the participating banks,
IAPMEI and Bank of Portugal (Loan Agreement) (paras. 6.10-6.12);
(c) appraisal, review, commitment and follow up procedures (Loan
Agreement and Agreed Minutes of Negotiations) (paras. 6.13, 6.14);
(d) disbursement procedures (Loan Agreement) (paras. 6.17-6.18);
(e) audit procedures (Loan Agreement) (para. 6.19);
(f) project reporting procedures (para. 6.16);
(g) link between subproject financial and technical assistance (Loan
Agreement) (para. 6.27);
(h) continuation of the current credit ceiling incentive granted by Bank
of Portugal for the participating banks (Loan Agreement and Agreed
Minutes of Negotiations) (para. 6.22);
(i) IAPMEI's commitment to allocate the equivalent of its available
income from its spread on the SMI credit lines and fees from its
services to SMI clients in order to maintain its program of
specialized consulting services for long-term technical assistance to
enterprises at least at the 1983 level over the disbursement period
of the project (Project Agreement and Agreed Minutes of Niegotiations)
(para. 6.26 (i));
(j) IAPMtI's annual work program to be reviewed jointly with the Bank
over the disbursement period of the proposed project, the first such
review to take place by the end of 1983 for the forthcoming year
(Project Agreement) (para. 6.26 (ii));
(k) periodic consultations between the Government and Bank to formulate
and coordinate needed revisions aiming at increasing the efficiency
of the industrial investment incentive framework, and identify a
consistent and constructive approach for Bank assistance to the
industrial sector in Portugal; such consultation would begin to take
place no later than January 31, 1984 (Agreed Minutes of Negotiations)
(para. 6.30);



- 28 -
(1) Government's assurances that it intends to maintain interest rates at
positive real levels, and in the context of policy dialogue and
project supervision to review at regular intervals the interest rate
situation with the Bank (Agreed Minutes of Negotiations) (para. 4.07).
8.03     The loan documents specify the following conditions of effectiveness
which were agreed upon during negotiations:
(a) One or more protocols acceptable to the Bank would be signed by at
least three banks accounting for at least 40% of the total assets in
the system. This agreement would spell out the respective role and
responsibilities of Bank of Portugal, IAPMEI and financing banks for
the utilization of the credit time (para. 6.09 and 8.01 (a to g));
(b) the Agency Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been executed on
behalf of the Government and the Bank of Portugal (para. 6.12);
(c) a special account would be opened by Bank of Portugal for the purpose
of the SMI II credit line (para. 6.18).



- 29 -                                ANNILX~ 1
PORTUGAL - SMI II PROJECT                     Page 1 of 9
Portugal's System of Industrial Investment Incentives (SIII)
(Report No. 3804-PO)
Introduction
1.        In May 1980 the Government instituted a new system of incentives to
promote investment in the fishing, extractive and manufacturing industries.
As with all investment incentive systems, this system operates by lowering
the initial cost of investments or by raising their annual returns, both of
which raise the rate of return to investors. The ability of the new system
of incentives to achieve its stated objectives depends on: (i) the degree to
which the incentives, in general, lower the cost of capital to investors;
(ii) the size of the additional margin of incentive that the sectoral, effi-
ciency and regional elements of the scheme provide; and (iii) the relative
attractiveness to foreign investors' of Portugal's system of incentives as
compared to those of countries that compete with Portugal for foreign
investment.
The Cost of Capital
2.        Investment incentives work primarily through the reduction of costs
to investors-either by reducing the after-tax financial cost of debt or
equity funds used to purchase capital goods. The initial cost of capital
goods is reduced when cash grants or tax credits are made in relation to the
value of the newly acquired assets. Tariff exemptions on the imported capi-
tal goods and overvalued exchange rates also lower the puchase price of im-
ported capital goods. Since the prices of domestic capital goods are
frequently tied to the prices of similar inputs, tariff exemptions and an
overvalued currency will lower their prices in a similar fashion.
3.        Lowering the financial costs of owning capital assets can be
achieved by various means. First, the cost of debt can be lowered directly
by providing loans at below market interest rates or indirectly by making the
interest cost tax deductible. Second, the cost of equity can be reduced
through fiscal policies. 1/ A tax boliday or a reduction in the corpor- ate
tax rate reduces the before-tax rate of return necessary to achieve a given
after-tax return to investors. Finally, accelerated depreciation defers
taxes to a later date and effectively provides an interest-free loan until
the taxes are finally paid.
The Rental Cost of Capital
4.        The initial cost of capital goods and the costs of financing capi-
tal goods purchases can be combined to produce a measure of the annual cost
1/ The cost of equity to the firm is defined as the rate of return to equity
before income taxes necessary to meet the minimum after-tax rate of
return required to attract investors to the industry.



-30-                              ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
of using capital, known as the rental cost of capital.  Since the rental cost
is affected by each incentive instrument, it can be used to show the
cumulative effects of all incentives and the individual contributions of each
incentive instrument to the total subsidy. Following similar exercises for
other countries the rental cost of capital (RC), allowing for the main
Portuguese incentive instruments, can be defined as follows:
RC = DI (D2 + D3 + D4)
where D1 = 100 x (1 + tm) (l-Cg) (1-E)
D2 = Pe. Se/ l-td
D3 = (1 - Se) (R - TB.M)
Do = (0.1 - td) x A
(l-td)
where tm = the tariff rate on equipment
Cg = capital grants to new investment
E = the degree of overvaluaton of the exchange rate
td = the marginal rate of corporate tax
Pe = the unit cost of equity
Se = the share of equity in the financing of the investment
R = the Bank of Portugal discount rate
TB = "the basic compensation rate" governing interest subsidies
M = the set of weights (declining over a five-year period)
used in determining interest subsidies
A   depreciation allowances
5.        Essentially, expression DI, re-prices a machine having a c.i.f.
price of 100, to reflect its true cost to a local investor. It takes account
of the tariff on the machine, the degree of overvaluation of the exchange
rate and any direct capital grants offered by the Government. Expression
D2 merely indicates the way in which direct taxation effectively raises the
annual cost of the equity element of the financing of the investment. D3
measures the annualized impact of interest rate subsidies on the debt element
of the financing. Finally, D4 shows the extent to which the annual cost of
using the machine is affected by the tax treatment of depreciation (a ten-
year life is assumed).



-31-                              ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
6.        Since the effects of incentives are relative, it is important to
have some benchmarks against which these effects can be evaluated. We will in
fact use two such benchmarks. The first is the "no-incentive rental cost,"
which is the rental cost assuming that no incentives but all disincentives
(e.g., tm, td, etc.) are present. The second is the "equilibrium rental
cost" which is the rental cost in the absence of both incentives and disin-
centives. The Portuguese value of these two benchmarks in relation to a
machine costing Esc. 100 are Esc. 43.5 and Esc. 32.8 respectively. 1/  In
other words, the tax disincentives in the Portuguese system add just over
Esc. 10 to the annual cost of using this machine.
7.        The amendment to this picture which arises from allowing for
incentives depends upon the specific regimes under which an investment
falls. Eacn of three major regimes--General, Special and Extraordinary--has
its own metbod of providing subsidies to capital and some provide subsidies
to otber factors as well. The General regime combines both tax exemptions
and preferential interest rates to subsidize capital. The Special regime, on
the other hand, provides subsidies to capital, labor and operating expenses.
The Extraordinary regime entails a subsidy in direct proportion to the equity
portion of the investment multiplied by the total "points" merited by the
project. "Points" are earned by scoring the project on a I to 10 scale in
three differently weighted categories: economic efficiency, sectoral
priority and regional priority.
The General Regime
8.        The effect of the General regime incentives on the rental cost of
capital can be examined in terms of the four categories of benefits
established in the General regime. Assignment of a firm to one of the four
categories is based on the points score and the points score also determines
the degree of the interest subsidy. The rental cost of capital for firms
falling into each of the four categories is shown in Table 1.
9.        It is evident that the incentives provided by Case A returns the
firm to the situation it would face if the Government did not intervene.
Cases B through D lower the rental cost of capital between 8 and 33 percent,
from the equilibrium level respectively. If the no-incentive case is used as
a benchmark, the degree of subsidization appears more extreme: the rental
cost of capital in case D is approximately balf the rental cost when only
disincentives exist.
10.       The effects of the regional and sectoral preferences are harder to
discern because their influence on the total subsidy is discontinuous and
depends on the total point score for the firm, not just the geographic
I/ The assumptions about parameter values for these and the calculations
which follow were: Se = 25; tm = 20; R = 22; Pe = 25; td = 45; E = 20;
normal depreciation = twice the normal allowance for five years only (all
figures shown are expressed as percentages.)



- 32 -                 ~     ~
32                     ~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
Table 1: RENTAL COSTS UNDER THE GENERAL REGIME
Category                   Annual Rental
Cost of Esc. 100 Machine
Benchwork
No incentive                      43.5
Equilibrium                        32.8
Actual
Case A                            32.8
Case B                            30.3
Case C                            24.9
Case D                            21.9
location. However, even though the regional category carries a weight of
only .15, in the points score, a small difference in the score for that
category could move a firm from one incentive case to another. However, the
impact of the regional score on the interest subsidy is minimal. Whether the
regional score is 0 or 10 results in only a 1 percent difference in the
rental cost of capital provided that, as a result of the change in the total
point score, the firm does not move to a different incentive case. Similar
comments apply to the sectoral element in the total score.
The Special Regime
11.       The Special regime provides subsidies to capital, labor and operat-
ing expenses. The subsidy to capital is proportional to the value of the
domestically produced capital goods and inversely proportional to the value
of the imported components, either direct or indirect, included in the
capital goods.  A project with less than 43 percent domestic components               f
receives no subsidy, while a project with 100 percent domestic components
would receive a subsidy of 20 percent of the total value of the fixed in-
vestment. The value of the subsidy is paid to the firm over a five-year
period by reductions in the interest charges owned by the firm. The subsidy
benefits of the Special regime are additional to the benefits outlined in the
General regime so that the rental costs of capital would be reduced by
approximately 2.5 percent (the annual average value of the discounted subsidy
stream) relative to the figures shown in Table 1.
12.,      In addition to the capital subsidies, the Special regime provides
for an annual subsidy to labor in each of the first three years of the
project based on the number of jobs created in each year. The incremental
employment is multiplied by the "underemployment subsidy" (63,000 escudos in



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
1981) to determine the amount of the subsidy. The importance of this subsidy
can be gauged by the fact that the average capital investment per worker in
manufacturing is of the order of Esc. 1,200,000. Thus, on average, the sub-
sidy to labor is approximately equivalent to a 5 percent subsidy to capital,
but the effect of the subsidv will vary according to the capital-intensity of
the production process. As in the case of capital, the subsidy is paid by
reducing interest charges to the firm in an amount equivalert to the subsidy.
13.       Finally, the Special regime provides a subsidy baX.ed on the value-
added by tbh firm measured in terms of world prices and adjusted for imported
capital foods used in production. The value-added subsidy increases the ef-
fective protection by the amount of the subsidy which declines over a five-
year period from 12 percent to 3 percent in the fifth year. With some
effective rates of protection for Portuguese manufacturers in the 30 to 60
percent range, the value-added subsidy provides a substantial incentive over
the five-year period it is in effect.
The Extraordinary Regime
14.       Use of the Extraordinary regime precludes access to either the
General or the Special regime. Qualifying firms are provided a one-time
subsidy equal to 5 percent of the value of new equity funds created multi-
plied by the points score. The subsidy thus ranges from 0 to 50 percent of
the equity contribution of the firm. If debt/equity ratios are of the order
of 3 to 1, the value of the subsidy could amount to as much as 12.5 percent
of the total value of the investment.
Other Incentives Regimes
15.       Portugal offers small firms incentives by a combination of special
deductions, interest subsidies based on employment and exemptions from duties
on imported capital equipment. Firms may deduct as much as 100 percent of
the value of fixed investment from profits (with loss carry forward privi-
leges) if they are located in priority regions and use domestic machinery.
At a minimum, small firms can deduct 50 percent of the investment cost. In
addition, the interest on borrowed funds is reduced by an amount equal to the
unemployment subsidy (Esc. 63,000 in 1981) multiplied by the number of new
jobs created. If the value of the tax deduction is spread over a five-year
period, the rental cost of capital for small firms becomes Esc. 23.5 for a
Esc. 100 machine, or 30 percent below the equilibrium cost of Esc. 32.8.
Assuming a capital-labor ratio of Esc. 300,000 per worker in small enter-
prises, each new job created is equivalent to a 20 percent subsidy to
capital. Unlike the General regime that uniquely subsidizes capital, the
Simplified regime provides a lower bias towards capital. Other subsidy
programs are directed at firms involved in mergers or cooperative ventures,
in research and development and in sectors undergoing reorganization.
Extremely large projects can qualify for special incentives that are
negotiated on a case-by-case basis.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
Evaluation
16.       The Overall Degree of Incentive.  The degree of incentive in
Portugal is certainly adequate by comparison to the level of investment in-
centives in other countries. The total amount of the capital subsidy avail-
able to firms under the General regime when measured between the no-incentive
and maximum incentive cases represents a drop in the rental cost of capital
of approximately 50 percent. Comparable data on the maximum reduction in the
rental cost of capital for a sample of other countries is shown in Table 2.
Table 2: PERCENTAGE REDUCTION IN RENTAL COST THROUGH
SUBSIDIES FOR A SAMPLE OF COUNTRIES a/
Country                        Percentage Production
Bangladesh                                  60
Morocco                                     54
Pakistan                                    74
Portugal                                    51
Thailand                                    35
a/ There is no presumption that these countries are good
comparators with Portugal. They are merely the coun-
tries for which reasonably comparable estimates of RC
happen to be available. However, it is reasonable to
assert that the justification for market distortions
is greater in low-income countries and that Portugal,
as a relatively high income country, should tberefore
show rather lower figures than it does.
Portugal's subsidy level compares favorably with other countries with far
lower levels of per capita income and is substantially higher than the level
provided in Thailand. The effectiveness of incentives in attracting foreign
investment is a matter of some controversy. However, Portugal's incentive
system is certainly competitive with those of the developing countries
included in Table 2 and probably with those in most EEC countries.
17.       Contribution of Different Instruments.  The investment incentive
comprises four major incentive instruments: the tariff exemption, over-
val,uation of the exchange rate, a tax holiday and subsidized interest rates.
It should be further noted that accelerated depreciation is provided as an



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
incentive but tax holidays and accelerated depreciation are mutually exclu-
sive substitutes as their effects are not additive. For Portugal and each of
the four comparator countries, it is possible to compute the contribution of
each instrument to the overall maximum reduction in rental cost shown in
Table 2. This is done in Table 3.
Table 3: INCENTIVE COMPONENTS a/
Instrument             Portugal    Morocco    Bangladesh   Pakistan    Thailand
Tariff exemption         .50          .72           .27          .42          .71
Overvaluation            .64          .37           .53          .46         1.06
Tax holiday              .49          .41           .80          .35          .71
Interest subsidy         .49          .13           .07          .12          .37
a/ Measured relative to the overall maximum reduction in RC.  The calcula-
tion considers each incentive in isolation and, as a result, the separate
effects cannot be summed to produce the overall effect.
Source: Stephen Guisinger, "Investment Incentives in Four Developing
Countries," mimeo, International Finance Corporation, December 1979.
Also, Stephen Guisinger, "Investment Incentive Strategies for
Thailand's Industrial Development," mimeo, World Bank, October 1980.
18.       It is evident from these comparisons that the main area where
Portugal's incentive system differs markedly from those found in other coun-
tries is in the use of interest subsidies to promote investment. This is
extremely high in the Portuguese case.
19.       Biases.  It is difficult to design incentive systems that are com-
pletely neutral in the sense that they promote investment without disturbing
any other relationships in the economy. The present system of incentives in
Portugal is no exception. The system affects the choice between capital and
labor in production, import substitution versus export promotion and the
amount of vertical integration in production. Because most incentive systems
lower the cost of capital without simultaneously reducing the cost of labor,
a bias towards capital-intensity in production is inadvertently introduced.
The General regime typifies this type of bias since all of its incentives go
to capital with no subsidies to the use of labor. The Special regime, on the
other hand, provides subsidies to capital, labor and operating expenses the
effect of the latter having no impact on capital/labor choice in production.
However, in determining benefits, the General regime does employ a produc-
tivity criterion based on the capital-output ratio that is itself biased



-    -                                ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
towards the use of labor. Thus, overall, the effect of the Portuguese system
is to moderate the normal built-in capital-bias of fiscal incentives.
20.       As regards the balance between export promoting and import substi-
tuting investments, the system introduces a small bias in favor of the for-
mer. This is because the net value of export earnings (the value of export
sales less the value of imported inputs) is revalued at a higher exchange
rate, while the net foreign exchange savings of import-substituting projects
is evaluated at the official excbange rate. However, this bias is certainly
small and may do little more than offset the effects of the remaining levels
of effective protection.
21.       Finally the system involves a small bias in favor of vertical inte-
gration since it includes the provision that firms contributing value-added
amounting to less than 30 percent of total sales incur a reduction in the
points they can earn on the productivity scale. This has the benefit, at
least in theory, of discouraging mere assembly operations that add little to
employnent or economic activity in general.
Recommendations
22.       The strengths of the Portuguese incentive system are its attempt to
emphasis economically efficient projects, and some moderation in the capital
bias inherent in most systems of fiscal incentives. The weaknesses of the
system are its administrative complexity and its redundant or ineffectual
features such as the Extraordinary regime and, to a degree, the regional and
sectoral preferences. The administrative complexity is understandable in the
sense that multiple objectives 'are being sought, instances of fraud are being
minimized through precise definition of rules and an attempt is being made to
ensure that all approved projects meet minimum standards of economic effi-
ciency. Nevertheless, it is possible that the very complexity of the system
prevents it from achieving any of its basic objectives by deterring all but
the most determined and capable investors. Simplification of the system
would come only at the cost of possibly failing to achieve all the objec-
tives. However, benefits would surely be obtained if simplification would
induce a larger number of investors to avail themselves of the incentives.
The costs of simplifications must be weighed against these benefits.
23.       One obvious area for simplification would be the elimination of the
regional and sectoral preferences. They could be replaced by more direct
Government efforts to address the basic weaknesses which inhibit investment
in particular sectors or regions (e.g., better infrastructure in the regions).
24.       Another area for possible simplification is the area of the
distribution of the subsidy among various instruments. Entrepreneurs are
more concerned about the level of incentives than the means by which they are
conveyed. It would seem preferable to consolidate the various subsidy ele-
ments into, perhaps a single depreciation allowance or cash grant, eliminat-
ing the multiplicity of subsidy forms, which produce nothing but confusion in



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of ?
the minds of potential investors. Nothing of substance is gained by offering
a tax holiday, accelerated depreciation and an interest subsidy, when a
single cash grant would produce the same reduction in the rental cost of
capital.
25.       Finally, the overall level of the investment incentives ougbt to
be examined with a view both towards reducing their generosity and towards
directing them more specifically to address particular and clearly identified
problems. Mission visits and calculations of this Annex suggest that exces-
sive investment subsidies are providng windfall gains for those investors who
would have invested without the incentives (or with a much lower level of in-
centives). However, it is difficuit to determine an optimal investment
incentive system without careful monitoring of the performance of subsidy
recipients. Studies sbould be undertaken of a sample of firms qualifying for
incentives to-determine their overall profitability. Excessive profitability
of firms that could be presumed to have invested in the absence of the
present system of incentives could be presumed to have invested in the ab-
sence of the present system of incentives would be further evidence of an
excessive level of incentives.
26.       Finally, if something like the present system is maintained, every
effort should be undertaken to inform investors of the desirability of the
present system and to "demystify" the cumbersome criteria for qualification.
The computations of the rental cost of capital provided above could be used
to publicize the generous nature of the subsidies, something that is not ap-
parent from the listing of the number of years of tax holiday, the possibili-
ties for accelerated depreciation and so forth. An investors' service could
provide not only mutliple examples of the rental cost of capital or net
present values for hypothetical, yet representative projects.  The simple
computer program which we have used for the calculations of this Annex would
simplify the computation of the interest subsidy and could be offered as a
service to potential investors. The proper marketing of investment incen-
tives might be as important as the incentives themselves.



- 38 _
ANNEX i
PORTUGAL - SMI II PROJECT
Interest Rates and Inflation
Term Deposit          Annual
Lending Rates        Rates          Rate of Inflation
1'974 July               6.75-11.5         3.5- 9.5              28%
1974 December            7.75-12.5         3.5-10.5
1975 December            7.75-12.75        4.5-11.5              20%
19 76 July               8.75-13.25        4.5-11.5              18%
1977 March              10.25-14.75        5.0-13.0              27%
August             14.75-18.75        6.0-17.0
1978 May                18.25-22.25        8.0-21.0              22%
1979                    18.25-22.25        8.0-21.0              24%
1980                    18.25-22.25        8.0-21.0              17%
1981 July               18.25-24.25       10.0-22.0              20%
1982 April              23.0 -26.00       23.0-24.0              25% 1/
1/ Estimated June 1982.
Source:  Banco de Portugal, Credit Department.



ANNEX 3
PORTUGAL - SKI II PMOJECT
(Maximum Interest Rate)
Date established                                              December 1975   July 1976   March 1977   August 1977   May 1978   July 1978  April 1982
Banco de Portugal
Rediscount - first tranche                                         6.5           6.5         8.0          13.0           18.0        18.0        19.0
- second tranche                                        6.5           6.5         9.5          15.0          20.5         20.5        21.5
- third tranche                                         6.5           6.5         12.0         18.0           23.00       23.0        Z4.0
Deposit Rates
Commercial Banks
Sight depositS of individuals (1)                               1.0 (2)       1.0 (2)     1.0           1.0            1.0 (2)     1.0 (2)     1.0 (2)
Other deposits - notice or time deposits froms
- 15 to 90 days                                         4.5           4.5         5.0           6.0            8.0        10.0        11.0
- 91 to 180 days                                        6.5           6.5         7.5           9.0           12.0        14.0         15.0
- 181 days to 1 year                                    9.5           9.5        11.0          15.0           19.0        19.5        21.5
Investment and Savings-Banks
Sight dep. of individuals (1) - up to a ceiling (3)                4.0 (2)       4.0 (2)     4.0           4.0            4.0 (2)     4.0 (2)    4.0 (2)
- over the ceiling                  2.0 (2)        2.0 (2)     2.0          2.0            2.0 (2)      2.0 (2)     2.0 (2)
Other deposits - notice or time deposits from:'
- 15 to 90 days                                         4.5           4.5         5.0           6.0            8.0        10.0         11.0
- 91 to 180 days                                        6.5           6.5          7.5          9.0           12.0        14.0         15.0
- 181 days to 1 year                                    9.5           9.5         11.0         15.0           19.0        19.5         21.5
- over I year                                          10.5           10.5        12.0         16.0           20.0        21.0        23.0
- over 2 years (4)                                     10.5 to       10.5 to      12.0 to      16.0 to        20.0 to     21.0 to     23.0 to
11.5          11.5        13.0          17.0           21.0        22.0        24.0
Lending Rates
All Credit Institutions
Discount and loans:
- up to 90 days                                         7.75          8.75        10.25        14.75          18.25       19.0 to      23.0
21.0
- from 91 to 180 days                                   8.25          9.25        10.75        15.25          18.75       19.5 to     23.5
21.5        24.0
- from 181 days to 1 year                               9.5           10.5        12.0         16.5           20.0        20.0 to
22.0
- from I to 2 years                                    10.75         11.25        12.75        17.0           20.5        20.5 to     24.0
22.5
- from 2 1o 5 years                                    11.75          12.25       13.75        17.75          21.5        21.0 1o    25.0
23.0
- from 5 to 7 years                                    12.25          12.75       14.25        18.75          22.25       22.0 to     26.0
24.0
- over 7 years                                         12.75         13.25        14.75        18.75          22.25       22.0 to    26.0
24.0
1/ For other sight deposits, nil
2/ Also for deposits of cooperatives and associations and foundations for public welfare.
Y/  The ceiling was set at: Dec. 75, July 76, March 77 and Aug. 77 - Eac. 70,000.00; May 78 and July 81 - Esc. 100,000.00; April 82 - Esc. 150,000.00.
/  Savings deposits.



4U
ANNEX 4
PORTUGAL - SMI II PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF COMMERCIAL OF BANKS' CREDIT PORTFOLIO
Analysis Total Credit by Term
1979    %       1980       X      19 81 .
 --------------(Esc.million)-------------
Short term credit                    518,233   64      629,010   62    698,620   60
Medium term credit (1-5 years)    115,365   14          136,655   14    186,619   16
Long term credit                     172,622   22       243,710   24    281,669   24
Total                           806,220  100   1,009,375  100  1,166,908  100
Analysis of Total Credit as of December 31, 1981 by Type and Maturity
Type of Credit               Short Term    Medium Term    Long Term   Total    %
(1-5 years)
--------------------(Esc. billion)-----------------
Export Credit                     72.1            7.1             .5       79.7    7
Import Credit                    50.0             5.3             .2       55.5    5
Credit to individuals             21.0            8.8         125.4       155.2   13
Investment credit I/              71.1           67.6         125.6       264.3   23
Other credits                   484.4            97.8          30.0       612.2   52
Tot:al                      698.6           186.6         281.7    1,166.9  100
Comumercial Bank Credit provided for New Industrial Investment in 1981
(Esec. million)
Total of
new invest-
Over   ment credit
Bank/Term                                               1 year   1 year  to industry
BANCO BORGES & IRMAG0                                      404    9,732        10,136
BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO E COMERCIAL DE LISBOA             38,167    9,671        47,838
BA NO F'ONSECAS & BURNAY                                 1,298    2,629         3,927
BANCO NACIONAL ULTRAMATINO                                  16    3,459         3,475
BANCO PINTO & SOTTO MAYOR                                2,672   13,623        16,295
BANCO PORTUGUES DO ATLANTICO                            14,608    6,717        21,325
BA NCO TOTTA & ACORES                                      -      5,477         5,477
UNIAO DE BANCOS PORTUGUESES                                -       2,702        2,702
CAIXA GERAL DE DEPOSITOS CREDITD E PREVIDENCIA          11,951   25,238        37,189
CREDITO PREDIAL PORTUGUES                                  686       359        1,045
Total for Industry                                 69,802   79,607       149,409
1/  This includes credit for new investments as well as for financial
restructuring (rescheduling of old debts included).
Source: Banco de Portugal, Credit Department.



_ 41 _
ANNEX 5
PORTUGAL - SMI II
BANK PARTICIPATION IN THE SMI I CREDIT LINE AS OF JANUARY 31, 1983
Net Total
Commitment
No. of       Amount 1/ share
Bank                                                Projects  (Esc. million)   %
BANCO BORGES & IRMAO (BBI)                              20          278.3      9.0
BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO (BECSL)                            34          342.5     11.0
BANCO FONSECAS & BURNAY (BFB)                           11           76.1      2.6
BANCO FOMENTO NACIONAL (BFN)                            25          104.7      3.4
BANCO NACIONAL ULTRAMATINO (BNU)                        32          256.6      8.3
BANCO PORTUGUES DO ATLANTICO (BPA)                     101         651.0      21.2
BANCO PINTO & SOTTO MAYOR (BPSM)                        38          301.6      9.8
BANCO TOTTA & ACORES (BTA)                              17          150.8      5.0
CAIXA GERAL DE DEPOSITOS (CGD)                          75          702.1     23.0
CREDITO PREDIAL PORTUGUES (CPP)                          4           75.5      2.5
UNIAO DE BANCOS PORTUGUESES (UBP)                       13          130.9      4.2
Total                                             369        3,070.1    100.0
(or US$36.6 million
equivalent)
1/ Net of cancellations on approved subloans mainly caused by the continuing
devaluation of the Escudo.



ANNEX 6
PORTUGAL - SMI II
ANALYSIS OF COMMITMENTS UNDER SMI I PROJECT
(as of January 31, 1983)
('000 US$ equivalent)
Sector Distribution
Range of                                                                         Range of
investment                     No. of         IBRD                               Investment
Sector                         Projects      Subloan        X      No. Jobs      Cost per Job
cost per job
Mining Industries                 15            16.5       0.1         84         16.0-20.1
Foodstuff                         14        2,274.1        6.2       206          23.1-30.8
Textile and Clothing              58        6,353.7       17.3       1215          3.5-15.0
Shoe and Leather                  23        2,299.6        6.3       293           7.7-19.4
Wood, furniture, cork             51         5,971.7      16.3        909          9.5-16.8
Paper and Printing                 6          433.2        1.2        29             35.5
Chemicals and Rubber              20         2,800.6       7.6        242         12.4-31.2
Non-Metallic Minerals             39        3,438.0       9.4        548           8.1-18.5
Engineering                      143        13,040.1      35.6       1530         11.2-25.0
Total                    369        36,627.5    100.0        5056             16.5
Type of Projects Financed
DescriLption                                    Number            IBRD subloan         x
New Projects                                  83                  7,873.9          22
Expansion/Modernization Projects              286                28,753.6          78
Total                                      369                 36,627.5          100
Subproject Size Distribution
Investment                                                 Range of Investment
Categories                    Nmber       X                    Cost per job
Small                          87        23.5                     6.4 - 9.2
Intermediate                  197        53.5                    12.9 -27.9
Medium                         85        23.0                    15.9  36.7
Total                   369        100.0



_ 43_
ANNEX 7
PORTUGAL
SMI II PROJECT
Estimated Commitment Schedule           Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Quarter
ending             during quarter        cumulative        during quarter      cumulative
1983
September 30         3.0                 3.0                0.3                0.3
December 31          3.0                 6.0                1.0                1.3
1984
March 31             3.5                 9.5                1.5                2.8
June 30              4.0                13.5                2.0                4.8
September 30         4.0                17.5                2.0                6.8
December 31          4.5                22.0                2.0                8.8
1985
March 31             4.0                26.0                2.5               11.3
June 30              4.0                30.0                2.5               13.8
September 30         3.5                33.5                2.5               16.3
December 31          3.0                36.5                2.5               18.8
1986
March 31             2.0                38.5                2.5               21.3
June 30              1.0                39.5                2.5               23.8
September 30         0.5                40.0                2.5               26.3
December 31                                                 2.5               28.8
1987
March 31                                                    2.0               30.8
June 30                                                     2.0               32.8
September 30                                                2,0               34.8
December 31                                                 1.5               36.3
1988
March 31                                                    1.0               37.3
June 30                                                     1.0               38.3
September 30                                                0.6               38.9
December 31                                                 0.6               39.5
1989
March 31                                                    0.5               40.0
EMENA/IDF
March 1983



- 44-
ANNEX 8
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Portugal - Policies for Industrial Restructuring, Report
No. 3804-PO, dated August, 1982.
2.    Portugal - Recent Economic Developments and the Medium -
Term Perspective, Report No. 3365-PO,
September, 1918.
3.    Portugal - Staff Appraisal Report of the Small and
Medium Scale Industry Development Project,
Report No. 2312-PO, April 24, 1979.
4.    Checklist for a Comprehensive Review of Subproject
Appraisal Reports, November 1982.
.5.    Format of Subprojects Review Note, November 1982.
6.    IAPMEI's Annual Reports - 1979, 1980, 1981.
7.    IAPMEI's Activity Plans - 1980, 1981, 1982.
8.    IAPMEI's Proposals for the EEC's Program of Assistance
to Portuguese SMNs, 1981.



