LOAN NUMBER 2263 PO
Loan Agreement
(Second Small and Medium Scale
Industry Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2263 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            2.7     , 1983, between REPUBLIC
OF PORTUGAL (hereinafter calle& the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement by making th.e Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project %ill be carried out by Instituto de Apoio
as Pequenas e Medias Empresas Industriais (hereinafter called
IAPMEI) and the participating commercial banks with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter pro-
vided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and IAPMEI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agre1ment, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and IAPMEI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Banco de Portugal pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules Lo the Agency
Agreement;
(c) "PBI" means Banco de Fomento Nacional, Caixa Geral de
Depositos, any Portuguese commercial bank or any Portuguese
investment society or other institution authorized to make
investment credit operations, which has entered into a protocol
with Banco de Portugal and IAPMEI as described in paragraph 7 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(d) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
PBI proposes or has made a Sub-loan;
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by a Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(f) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a PBI out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise
for a Investment Project;
(g) "Review Note" means a written assessment prepared by
IAPMEI's central service responsible for coordination and quality
control, in form satisfactory to the Bank, of each Investment
Project appraisal report; and
(h) "Escudo" and "Esc." mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million three hundred thousand dollars ($40,300,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and (c) of this Section, Banco de Portugal, acting as agent
of the Borrower, may withdraw from the Loan Account the equiva-
lent of amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to
be paid) by the PBIs on account of withdrawals made by an
Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet sixty-five per
cent (65%) of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal
from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the
Sub-loan has been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the Sub-loan is a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account.
(b) Free-limit Sub-loans shall be Sub-loans, each for an
Investment Project estimated to cost less than Esc. 43,000,000,
in October 1982 prices, the foregoing amount being subject to
change from time to time as determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; (ii) expenditures made
in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the application and information required under Section
2.03 (a) of tiis Agreement; or (iii) expenditures made in respect
of a free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date
on which Banco de Portugal shall have received     from IAPMEI the
Review Note required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
through IAPMEI shall furnish to the Bank an application and a
Review Note for the Sub-loan, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) For each request by Banco de Portugal, on behalf of the
Borrower, for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, the Borrower through
IAPMEI shall furnish to the Bank a Review Note.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests furnished pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (a) and (b) of this Section shall be
presented to the Bank on or before September 30, 1986.


﻿Section 2.04.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)


﻿- 5 -
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means   the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.11. Banco de Portugal is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action re-
quired or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing investment promotion and rehabilitation
programs for small and medium scale industry in Portugal.      The
Project consists of the financing of specific development pro-
jects through loans to small and medium scale enterprises in
Portugal, with special emphasis on smaller and labor-intensive
enterprises.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, as such Schedule may be amended by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate  administrative,   financial   and
industrial practices, and shall provide, promptly as need.d, the


﻿- 6 -
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause IAPMEI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of IAPMEI therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable IAPMEI to perform such
obligations, and shall not take.or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and through Banco de Portugal
acting as its agent in accordance with an Agency Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Banco de Portugal, relend
to PBIs the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to
Investment Projects, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, that the
foreign exchange risk as well as the interest rate risk shall be
borne by the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Agency Agreement
or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,


﻿- 7 -
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturirng not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by any institution performing
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund,
or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, in agreement with Banco de
Portugal, shall continue to provide to PBIs incentives to
participate in the Project, including adding the amounts of the
Sub-loans refinanced under the Project to the credit ceiling of
the PBI concerned.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) IAPMEI shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that IAPMEI will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The legislation under which IAPMEI is established and
operating shall have been amended,suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
IAPMEI to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of IAPMEI or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and IAPMEI; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and Banco de Portugal;
(b) one or more protocols described in paragraph 7 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been executed on behalf of, on
the one side, Banco de Portugal and IAPMEI, and on the       other
side, at least three PBIs whose combined assets, as of Octo-
ber 31, 1982, account for at least 40% of the total assets in the
banking system; and


﻿- 9 -
(c) Banco de Portugal has opened a special account for the
purpose of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as 'additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by IAPMEI, and is legally binding upon IAPMEI in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the' Agency Agreement has been duly authorized or
rat .fied by the Borrower and Banco de Portugal and is legally
bi "ing upon the Borrower and Banco de Portugal in accordance
with its terms.
Sectfdn 6.03. The date    ,3 USE V    9  ' 1  , is hereby
specified for the 'purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified- for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministerio das Financas e do Plano
Avenida Infante D. Henrique
100 Lisboa
Portugal
Cable address:                      Telex:
Dirrecao-Geral                    12 764 TRESOR P
do Tesouro
Lisboa


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION ANW DEVELOPMENT
AByl'j   Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1987
through   January 15, 1998                 1,680,000
On   July 15, 1998                              1,660,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepaypent
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The" 'interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
-        per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          .20
before maturity
More than three years                              .40
but not more than
six years before
maturity
More than six years                                .73
but not more than
eleven years before
maturity
More than eleven years                             .87
but not more than
thirteen years before
maturity
More than thirteen years                          1.00
before maturity


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation: Sub-loan and Investment Procedures
(1) Functions and Responsibilities of IAPMEI, the PBIs and
Banco de Portugal
Investment Projects shall be identified and appraised by the
PBIs   concerned  or   IAPMEI.   In  particular,   the  role   and
responsibility of IAPMEI and the PBIs shall be based on the
following principles:
(a) The PBIs shall continue to identify Investment Projects
and appraise them in accordance with their standard procedures
and the provisions of this Schedule. The PBIs may seek IAPMEI's
assistance in the identification and appraisal.    However, it is
the sole responsibility of the PBI concerned to decide whether to
finance the Investment Project and to apply for refinancing to
Banco de Portugal.
After a Sub-loan shall have been made to an Investment
Enterprise the PBI shall supervise the execution of the Invest-
ment Project with special emphasis on risk assessment and repay-
ment performance.
(b) IAPMEI shall identify and appraise Investment Projects,
or assist PBIs therein, in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
IAPMEI's central service responsible for coordination and
quality control shall (i) verify that all Investment Projects are
technically, financially and economically viable and meet the
eligibility criteria specified hereunder; (ii) coordinate the
follow-up on project implementation, and (iii) provide Investment
Enterprises with, or assist them in obtaining, technical assis-
tance, as necessary.
IAPMEI shall coordinate with the PBIs the supervision of all
Investment Projects and, in the course of supervtsion, focus on
the eligibility and technical assistance aspects. IAPMEI shall
prepare an annual supervision report covering an agrEed upon
sample of Investment Projects, In order to support IAPMEI's
overall supervision of these Investment Projects, (i) the PBIs
shall be required to furnish to IAPMEI for these Inv7estment
Projects an analysis of the Investment Enterprise's repayment


﻿- 14 -
performance; and (ii) Banco de Portugal shall be required to
furnish to IAPMEI an analysis of the respective Sub-loan
disbursements.
(c) Banco de Portugal shall centralize the administration
of the line of credit and be responsible for the refinancing of
the Sub-loans in accordance with its standard procedures and the
provisions of this Schedule.
(2) Eligibility Criteria
Sub-loans shall be made only for the purpose of financing
Investment Projects which meet the following criteria:
(a) The Investment Project must be technically, financially
ana eco.omically viable, and must in particular: (i) have a
minimum financial rate. of return of 12%, and (ii) in the case of
Investment Projects costing more than Esc. 60,000,000 in October
1982 prices have a minimum economic rate of return of 12%.     The
foregoing does not apply to Investment Projects aimed solely at
energy conservation for which the economic and financial
viability shall be demonstrated by a payback period test, with a
maximum payback period of six years calculated on the basis of
the equipment cost and annual energy savings valued at c.i.f.
import price of petroleum.
(b) The total cost of the Investment Project, including
permanent working capital and appropriate contingencies, but
excluding the cost of land, shall not exceed: (i) Esc. 50,000,000
in October 1982 prices for Investment Projects aimed soley at
energy conservation; and (ii) Esc. 95,000,000 in October 1982
prices for all other Investment Projects.
(c) The Investment Enterprise shall be required to provide
an equity contribution of not less than 25% of the total cost of
the Investment Project. In the case of expansion projects, the
equity shall not be less than 25% of the total net value of its
fixed assets after the completion of the Investment Project.
(d) Investment Enterprises requesting a Sub-loan for expan-
sion or modernization of existing facilities shall be eligible
only if the total net value of their fixed assets (excluding
land), after such expansion or modernization, revalued to October
1982 prices, does not exceed Esc. 245,000,000.
(e) The investment cost per job created or maintained by
the Investment Enterprise shall -not exceed Esc. 3,000,000 in


﻿- 15 -
October 1982 prices. The investment cost per job created or main-
tained shall be found: (i) in cases of new or expansion projects
by dividing the cost of the Investment Project by the number of
jobs created; and (ii) in cases of modernization and reorganiza-
tion projects by dividing the aggregate of the net fixed assets
of the Investment Enterprises after such reorganization or
modernization by the number of jobs to be created or maintained.
This criterion does not apply to Investment Projects intended
solely for quality control or energy conservation.
(f) The investment size and cost per job ceilings shall be
adjusted twice a year by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank to reflect inflation.
(3) Appraisal
In appraising Investment Projects, the PBIs and IAPMEI shall
pay special attention to: (i) ensuring that existing and new
production facilities are properly balanced; (ii) allowing ade-
quate provision for price and physical contingencies in the total
investment cost; (iii) verifying the availability of equity con-
tributions; and (iv) establishing an agreed technical assistance
action program and implementation timetable, if necessary. These
matters shall be specifically covered in the appraisal reports to
be prepared for each Investment Project.
(4) Approval
Upon notification by the Bank or IAPMEI, as the case may be,
of approval of the Investment Project pursuant to paragraphs (a)
or (b) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, and receipt of a
statement by the PBI concerned of the PBI's intention to make a
Sub-loan for the Investment Project, Banco de Portugal shall open
an Investment Project file and keep these documents in said file
for review by representatives of the Bank.
(5) Financial Procedures and Conditions
(a) The equivalent of 65% of the cost of the Investment
Project shall be eligible for refinancing by the Borrower acting
through Banco de Portugal. Requests for refinancing shall be
submitted to Banco de Portugal by the PBIs together with such
documentary evidence of the eligibility of such cost for
refinancing as Banco de Portugal shall request.


﻿- 16 -
(b) Requests for the withdrawal of proceeds of the Loan on
account of Sub-loans shall be made to the Bank by Banco de
Portugal acting as agent of the Borrower. Such requests shall be
submitted to the Bank monthly and shall be accompanied by a
certificate of Banco de Portugal stating that the disbursements
on account of which the withdrawal is requested have been made by
the PBI and that documentary evidence of the expenditures on
account of which such disbursements were made is available and
satisfactory to Banco de Portugal. Upon receipt of the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn, Banco de Portugal shall pass on to the
PBIs concerned the Escudo equivalent of such proceeds determined
as of the date of withdrawal. Banco de Portugal shall keep said
documentary evidence in its Investment Project files for
inspection by representatives of the Bank.
(c) Banco de Portugal shall collect from the PBIs the debt
service payments due from the PBIs on the proceeds of the Loan
made available to them by Banco de Portugal.
(d) Banco de Portugal shall: (i) maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the amounts received
and paid by it in respect of Investment Projects as well as the
documentary evidence of expenditures referred to in paragraph (5)
(b) hereof; (ii) have such records and accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Conselho de Auditoria do Banco de
Portugal; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, the report of such audit by said Conselho, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
such records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank may
from time to time reasonably request.
(e) Sub-loans shall be made on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) a repayment
period corresponding to the economic life of the facilities to be
provided under the Investment Project; provided, however, that
such repayment period shall not exceed 12 years and shall include
a grace period of not more than 3 years; and (ii) interest at
annual rates that apply from time to time to PBI loans for
industrial development in Portugal.


﻿- 17 -
(f) Of each amount payable as interest on a Sub-loan: (i)
the PBI shall retain the equivalent of 3.5 percentage points and
pay the balance to Banco de Portugal; (ii) Banco de Portugal
shall keep the equivalent of 0.75 of a percentage point for its
own account and shall pay the equivalent of 1.50 percentage point
to IAPMEI; and (iii) thereafter, Banco de Portugal, in accordance
with the Agency Agreement, shall pay the balance to the Borrower.
(g) Such portion of the several Sub-loan maturities as
shall represent the refinanced portion of Sub-loan proceeds, and
the portion of interest payable to Banco de Portugal pursuant to
the provisions of the preceding paragraph (f), shall be paid on
the respective Sub-loan payment dates by the PBIs to Banco de
Portugal regardless of payment by the Investment Enterprise.
(h) The portion of any maturity or part of a maturity of a
Sub-loan which represents the refinanced portion of the Sub-loan
proceeds and is repaid in advance of its scheduled payment date
to a PBI shall be promptly prepaid by the PBI to Banco de
Portugal and by 'anco de Portugal to the Borrower.
(6) Sub-loan Agreements
(a) As required by Portuguese practice and procedures,
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PBI shall obtain, by
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank, the Borrower, Banco de Portugal and the PBI,
including, in the case of any Sub-loan, the right of the PBI to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards,
including   implementing    technical   assistance
measures, if needed, and to maintain adequate
records;
(ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to be
refinanced in whole or in part by the Borrower
through Banco de Portugal shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery
and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare


﻿- 18 -
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (B) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank or IAPMEI if the Bank or IAPMEI shall
so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(iv) require that: (A) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice, and (B) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards     incident    to    the     acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods refinanced in
whole or in part by the Borrower through. Banco de
Portugal to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency   freely   usable   by   the   Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank, IAPMEI or
the PBI shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations
and   financial   condition  of   the   Investment
Enterprise; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan   upon   failure   by   such   Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.
(b) Each PBI shall be required to exercise its rights in
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower, Banco de
Portugal and the PBI; (ii) comply with its obligations under
its Protocol; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Investment
Project.


﻿- 19 -
(7) Protocols
The foregoing provisions of this Schedule (except for the
provisions of paragraph (5) (d)) and of Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of
this Agreement shall be included in one or more protocols to be
concluded between, on the one side, Banco de Portugal and IAPMEI,
and on the other side, one or more PBIs. Each such protocol shall
entitle Banco de Portugal to suspend or terminate the right of
any PBI party to the protocol to obtain refinancing of
disbursements under Sub-loans.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date
specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement
no applications or requests permitted under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the
Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.     Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of IN    , 198
FOR SECRETARY


