RESTRICTED
Report No. P-331
FILE OPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affliated organizations.
They do not occept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
DACCA ,AND CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
August 7, 1963






REPORT ANT  RECOMENTDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTfIE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE DACCA AND CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
1.           submit the following report and recommendations on two proposed
develo½-lent credits to the Repu-blic of Pakistan in amounts in various
currencies equivalent to 426 million and $24L million to assist in the financing
of water supply and sewerage projects in the cities of Dacca and Chittagong
in East Pakistan.
PART I - BACKGROU1D
2.        The urban population of Pakistan has been growing rapidly in the
past years. A large proportion of the people entering the country after
Pprtition in 1947 settled,in cities which have s4ince then, as growing indus-
trial, commercial and administrative centers, continued.to attract a
substantial number of people. The urban population is now estimated to be
growing more than twice as fast as the non-urban population. Housing, water
supply, se-werage and other conmunity facilities have not kept pace with this
development and, as a consequence, acute shortages have arisen which create
serious obstacles to the sound. economic and social growth of several cities,
armong them Dacca and Chittagong. To meet the most urgent requirements, the
Second Five-Year Plan provides expenditures of about $32O million equivalent,
amounting to about ten per cent of total Plan expenditures in the public
sector, for housing and urban development.
3.        Planning for the proposed projects by consulting engineers began in
late 1958 and was completed in June 1962.  An IDA mission appraised the
projects in the field. in October/November 1962.  On the basis of the appraisal
several modifications were proposed by the Association and. accepted by the
Government of East Pakistan.  These modifications reduced investment costs
and resulted in a shift in emphasis from investment in capacity not required
in the near   future to investment which would make the benefits of the
projects avaiiable to a larger portion of the population at an earlier time.
Negotiations with representatives of the Government of Pakistan and of the
Gover-nment of East Pakistan took place in W4ashington in May and June 1963.






N-~~~~~~~~~~~    
-2-
The Association has alread)r made the following credits to
Pakistan:
Credit Moe                Purpose                      Amount ($ mil:lion)
11 PAK    DaccaAlarayanganj/Denra Irrigation          1.0
16 PAK    Development of Inland Ports                 2.0
22 PAK    Khairpur Ground. Water and Salinity
Control                                  18.0
30 PAK    Industrial Estates                          6.5
39 PAK    Brahmaputra Flood Embankment                5.0
L0 PAK    Chandpur Irrigation                         9.0
41.5
The proposed credits would be the Association's seventh and. eighth operations
in Pakistan and.would.increase the total of IDA lending to Pakistan to $915
million. This amount is to be counted against the contribution of $135
million, pledged by the Association for the second. and third year (1961/62
and 1962/63) of the Second Five-Year Plan under the Consortium arrangemerits.
5,        Bank loans to Pakistan amount in the aggregate to $299.2 million.
The status of these loans on June 30, 1963, was as follows:
$ million
1/
TotaI7 net of cancellations                           299.2
of which has been repaid                             39.8
Total no!wr outstanding                             259.4
Amount sold                    12.5
of which has been repaid.    8.3                       .2
NTet amount held. by Bank                             255.2
1/ Including $141.5 million not yet disbursed.






-3-
PART II - DESCRIPTIO11 OF THE PROPOSED CREDITS
6.        Purpose:                 To assist in financing the cost of expansion
and improvement of the water supply and,
sewerage systems for the metropolitan areas
of Dacca and.Chittagong in East Pakistan.
Borrower:                Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies of
(a)  $26 million for the Dacca ProJect
(b) t24 million for the Chittagong Projecc,o
Term and Amortization:  The term of the credits would be 50 years
with no amortization for 10 years. From.
October 1, 1973, half of one per cent of the
principal amount would be repab,-ble semi-
annually for 10 years; and one and.a half
per cent semi-annually thereafter to
April 1, 2013.
Service Charge:          3/4 of one per cent per annum on the principal
aimount of the credits disbursed and
outstanding.
Payment Dates:           April 1 and October 1.
R.elending Arrangements
and Project             The Government of Pakistan would.relend the
Agreements:            proceeds of the credits to the Province of
East Pakistan.  The latter would relend.the
funds to the Dacca and Chittagong TWlater
Supply and Sewerage Authorities which would
carry out and.operate the projects. (For the
terms of relending see paras. 14 and 15
below).  The Association would enter into
Project Agreements with the Province of East
Pakistan. It has been made a conditLon of
effectiveness that the Dacca and Chittagong
IJater Supply and. Sewerage Authorities would.
accept and agree to all provisions of the
Project Agreements relating to the respective
Authorit4es.






-4-
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED CREDTTS
The Projects
7.        Detailed appraisals of the projects (TO-363a and 10-369a) are
attached (Nos. 1 and 2).
8.        After the formation of Pakistan in 19h7, Dacca became the capital and,
the most important commercial center of East Pakistan. Betwfeen 1951 and 1961l
the population of the city and the surrounding urban areas grew from 339,000
to 55o,000, an increase of 62 per cent. Particularly significant for the
growing economic role of the Dacca area is the increase of industrially
emp'loyed workers from l4,0OO in 1956 to 32,000 in 1960.  Following the Uransfer
of many governmental functions from the Central to the Provincial Governmrlents
in 1962 and on the basis of development plans for East Pakistan, it may be
expected that the administrative and eoonomic importance of Dacca will continue
to grow.
9.        Since 1947, Chittagong has become the main port of East
Pakistan, taking over for large areas of the Province the functions fcormerly
served by Calcutta.  As a consequence, the importance of Cnittagong as head-
quarters and terminal of the Pakistan Eastern Railway has also continuously
increased.  A considerable number of industries has already been set up in the
city area and the planned establishment of several substantial industrial
plants, including a steel plant and an oil refinery, will stimulate further
industrial expansion. The population growth in the Chittagong urban area from
29h,Oco in 1951 to 365,0oo in 1961 (24 per cent) has been much slower than in
Dacca but the expected growth in industrial and transport activity makes it
likely that the population will increase more rapidly in the future.
10.       In view of these developments, the water supply and sewerage systemTs
in both cities have become increasingly inadequate.  In Dacca, only 31 per
cent of the population is directly served by the existing public water systems
and only about ten per cent has sewer connections.  In Chittagong, the existing
water systems serve about 35 per cent of the population and. there is no public
sewerage system.  Water service in both cities is generally provided only for
limited periods, reaching a minimum of four hours per day in sections of
Chittagong.  The majority of the population uses either public street hydrants,
private wells which produce water of inferior quality, or open bodies of water
which are grossly polluted.. Due to almost complete lack of sewerage systems,
sewage disposal practices create serious public health hazards and contaninate
water sources. As a result there is in both cities a high incidence of
diseases caused by insanitary conditions and. use of contaminated water.






-5-
11.       The existing water supply and sewerage facilities in Dacca and
Chittagong are administered by different governmiental and municipal authori-
ties. In order to ensure that the future systems will be mun efficiently as
a single unit, the Provincial Government has agreed to establish for each
c-ty a W,,Tater Supply and Sewerage Authority which would be responsible for
carrying out and operating the proposed projects and the existing facilities.
The draft of an Ordinance under which the Authorities would be established
was discussed during negotiations and is expected to be issued shortly. The
provisions of the Ordinance would give the Authorities sufficieint autonovmy
to co;-duct their operationis in accordance with sound public utility practices
and under conpetent management. Each of the Authorities is to be managed by
a Chairzian. In recognition of the Association's interest in nmraagement, the
East Pakistan Govrernment agreed to make available to the Association all
relevant information on the person whon at any time it proposes to appoint
to the position of Chairman, to give the Association a reasonable opportunity
to express its views on the proposed appointee and to give careful consider,a-
tion to such viewis. Funds rould be provided under the proposed credits for
the employment of management consultants to assist the Authorities in the
esta'bli'shrent of an efficient organization and for the employment of engin-
eering consultants for designing and supervising the execution of the works
included in the projects, which are expected to be completed in about six
years.
12.       The proposed projects would provide adequate and safe water supply
and sewerage services. For each city, the water supply scheme would include
the developmeii- of a new wviater source from a nearby river, the construction
of intake works, a water treatment plant and a pumping station, wJhich would
deliver water through a new transmission main and a network of pri-mary supply
mains directly into the distribution systeris and newly constructed or improved
existing storage tanks. The schemes further provide for construction of
secondary distribution mains and replacement of existing ones and the installa-
tion of water service connections. The basic elements of the schemes are
designed for a capacity sufficient to meet the water demand expected up to
about 1978. The programs for extending the secondary distribution systems
would be continued by the Wa:ater Supply and Sewerage Autnhorities after
completion of the proposed projects until about 70 per cent of the population
would be served by *.water connections in about 197h. For the remriainde;^ of the
population, which could not afford separate water connections, public sani-
tary structures wJould be built under the projects and the continuing programs
of the Authorities.
13.       The sejerage schemes for both cities would be the first phase of
long-range sewerage programs which wTould eventually cover the entire metro-
politan areas. The works to be constructed now would provide in each city
for a system of major sewers several pumping stations, simple treatment
facilities and outfall sewers. These basic elements would be adequate for
the estimated requirements of about 600,000 people in Dacca and about
35OgCOO people in Chittagong but are designed to permit expansion required






-6-
by futu-re population increases. The schemes would also include constructioni
of lateral sewers and, in the case of Dacca, improvement of existing ones.
When the proposed projects are completed, about 50 per cent of the popula-
t,ion with water service connections would be connected to the sewer system
and this program would be continued thereafter by the Water Suppllr and
Sewerage Authorities. The public sanitary structures mentioned ir paragraph
11 would also provide sewerage facilities for the portion of the population
unable to alf'ord indivi dual connections.
a'.       The total cost of the Dacca project, excluding interest and working
capital during construction, is estimated at about $5O million equivalelnt.
The proposed credit of $26 million would cover the estimated foreign exchanpe
cost amounting to 52 per cent of total cost, The larger part of the local
currency cost would be covered by loans from the Provincial Government and
the balance would be met from revenues collected by the Authority during the
period of construction. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be relent by
the Governmment of Pakistan to the Provincial Government on IDA terms. The
Provincial Government in turn would make the funds available to the Authority
as required by the progress of construction. The total amount provided in
each fiscal year would be repaid by the Authority over a period of twenty
years, after 5-1/2 years of grace, tith interest at 3-1/2 per cent per annrum.
The same terms w-ould apply to the Govenxment funds.
15.       For the Chittagong project, the total cost excluding interest and
working capital during construction is estimated at about $43 million
equivalent. The proposed credit of $24 million would cover the estimated
foreign exchange cost anounting to about 56 per cent of total cost. The
larger part of the local currency cost would be covered by loans from the
Provincial Government and the balance would be provided by the Authority.
The procedures and term.s of relending of the proceeds of the IDA credit and
the terms of the Government funds would be the same as for the Dacca project
with the exception that repayment by the Chittagong Authority would be over
a period of 25 years after 5-1/2 years of grace. The longer repayment period
is justified by the higher investment relative to the population served
required for Chittagong which is due to lower population density and different
geographic conditions.
16.       Water and sewer rates to be collected by the Authorities would be
set so as to yield sufficient revenues to cover operating and maintenance
cost, interest, depreciation and debt repayments exceeding depreciation,
cost of normal extensions and a reasonable portion of tlhe cost of future
_major expansion. This will require a gradual increase in rates but it is
not expected that these will be beyond the consumers' capacity to pay.
--V






\
-7-
17.       All contracts for major items cf equipment and.iworks financed out
of the proceeds of the proposed credits wouLld, be awarded. on the basis of
international competitive bidding. During the six-year period of
construction, local manufacturers and contractors may reach a stage in which
they could successfully compete for certain items of equipment and, works wThich
under present circumstances would,have to be procured.from akroad.  This might
reduce the ultimate foreign exchange requirements for the projects slightly
and I believe the Association should. be prepared to consider at the appropriate
time financing local currency expenditures for the projects to the extent in
which the proposed credits would nrot be required to meet foreign exchange cost.
Such local currency expenditures would., however, only be financed. if the
respective goods were procured under the agreed. procedures.
18.       The services provided by the proposed projects would.substantially
improve the living conditions of the population in Dacca and Chittagong.
This can be expected. to reduce the wide prevalence of diseases related. to
personal sanitation which should improve individual productivity and.earnings.
Adequate w*?ater supply and sewerage facilities would also help to create con-
ditions favorable to the further commercial and industbrial growth of both
cities.  Financially, the projects would be self-supporting.  At the levrel of
T.water and sewer rates described in paragraph 16 above, the rate of
return on the investment is estimated at about 7 per cent over the normal
useful life of the installations (0 - 50 years).
7conomic  ituat-.on
1).       A report entitled. "The Economic Development Program of Pakistan"
(Secsi63-36) dated February 15, 1963, has been circu'lated.to the Executive
Directors.  A summary of Pakistan's current economic position was includ.ed.
in my Report and. Recommiendations (IDA/R63-13) of June 17, 1963, on a proposed.
d.evelopment credit to Pakistan for the Brahmaputra Flood Embankment Project.
PA'.T IV - LEGAL INSTRUITENTS AND LErxAL AUTHORITY
20.       Attached. are two draft Development Credit Agreements between the
Republic of Pakistan and the Association (Nos. 3 and. 4) and.two draft Project
Agreements betw.een the Province of East Pakistan and the Association (Nos. 5
ard.6) dealing with the proposed. credits for the Dacca and Chittagong projects
respectivelY.  The form of both draft Development Credit Agreements and both
draft Project Agreements is substantially the same, and.they cornform to the
pattern of IDA credits which includ.e a project agreement.






21.       Attention is drawn to the followring provisions:
(i) Section 6.01 of each draft Credit Agreement specifies as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Agreement
that the Water Supply and Sewrierage Authority shall have been
established with the necessary powers, financial resources
and organization; that satisfactory arrangements shall have
been made for the transfer of the existing water supply and
sewerage facilities to the Authority; and that the
Authority shall have accepted and agreed to all provis-ons
of the Project Agreement rela.ting to it.
(ii)  The draft Project Agreement for the Dacca project provides
for the setting of adequate water and sewer rates on the
basis described in paragraph 16 above (Section 2.05), for
limitations on the incurrence of long-term and short-term
debt by the Authority (Sections 2.06 and 2.07) and for the
termination of the Agreement on the scheduled date of final
repayment of the proceeds of the credit by the Authority
to the Province (Section 3.02).
(iii)  The draft Project Agreement for the Chittagong project
conta4ns corresponding provisions in Sections 2.07, 2.08,
2.09 and 3.02.
22.       The present text of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 provides
tLhat .uit]hdraliTals of the proceeds of a credit will be made in the currency
in whlich the goods financed thereunder have been paid, or in any other
currency agreed upon between the Borrowier and the Association. However, for
reasons of acministrative convenience, it has been the practice to include
in TDA Agree.r.ents a stipulation that the proceeds of a credit will be withdrawn
in any currency selected by the Association. In the case of withdrawals to
cover local expenditures, iT seems desirable and appropriate for the Associa-
tion to retain this prerogative. However, in the case of withdrawals to cover
foreign exchange expenditures, I believe that it iwould be preferable hence-
forth to follow the procedure applicable to Bank loans, namely to require the
Borrower to pay for the goods financed under a credit in the currency oP the
country from wihich they are acquired, and then to disburse that currency to
the Borrowier (except as the Association and the Borrower may otherwise agree).
Section 1.01 of the attached draft Development Credit Agreements establish
this newq procedure; this change will be included in all credit agreements
negotiated in the future until it can be incorporated in the next revised
edition of the Credit Regulations. (In view of the requirement that we draw
pro rata upon the 90% subscriptions of Part I countries, the Association wi1
of-ten have to purchase the currency disbursed to the Borrower with another
currency- that it holds. Section 1.01(b) of the attached draft Credit Agreeitento
proposing a new Section 3.04 of the Credit Regulations, would have the effect
of placing upon the Borrower the cost of such exchange operations.)






23.       The recommflendrations of the Committee provided.for in Article Ve
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are attached
(Nos. 7 and 8).
PASRT V - C011PLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGPEMWENT
24.       I am satisfied.that the Borrower and the Province of East PaIistan
will be able to fulfill their respective obligations under the Agreements
and that the proposed development credits comply l,mth the ArUcles of
Pgreement of the Association.
PART VI - REC0ITENDATIONS
25.       I recommrend that the Association make available two development
credits to Pakistan in amounts in various currencies equivalent to $,26 million
for the Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project and $24 million for the
Chittagong W;ataer Sunply and Sew.^erage Project for a term of fifty years w.ith
sarice charge of 3/4l of 1 per cent per annum and on such other terms as are
specified in the draft Development Credit A.reements and. draft Project
Agreements, and that" the Executive Directors adopt Resolutions to that effect
in the form attached (Nos. 9 and 10).
Attachments.
J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
for
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C.



