_____ ____        FILE    COPY
RESTRICTED
RETURN     TO                                    Report No. TO-363d
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF REVISIONS TO THE
DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
September 27, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00           =    PRs 4.762
PRs 1.00           =    US$ 0.21
PRs 1, 000, 000    =    US$ 210, 000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
gal = Imperial gallon = 1. Z0 U. S. gallons = 4. 54 liters
IMg = million Imperial gallons           = 4546 m3
IMgd = million Imperial gallons per day
Igcd = Imperial gallons per capita per day
FISCAL YEAR
July 1        -         June 30



INVTER NATIONAL DE VELOP1'.410 ENT \  'ASSOCIATION
CONFIDENTIAL
IDA/R68-53
FROM:  The President      FILE     CAPY               October 1, 1968
PAIaSTAN: REVISION OF PROJECTS AND EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATES
FOR CREDIT 41-PAK AND CREDIT 42-PAK
(Dacca and Chittagong W4ater Supply and Sewerage Projects)
1.        The Credits for the Dacca and Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage
Projects (Credits 41-PAK and 42-PAK) in the respective amounts of $26 million
and $24 million were signed on August 16, 1963 and became effective on March
6 and February 5, 1964, respectively.
2.        Both projects were from the start hampered by a wide range of
difficulties considerably greater than anticipated and which to a large ex-
tent were beyond the control of the authorities concerned. By the end of
1965, it became apparent that the original schemes were over-ambitious. As
a consequence, it was then agreed to reduce them to a more realistic size.
In autumn 1966, preliminary results of studies undertaken to revise the pro-
jects showed that substantial reductions could be made and the Government of
Pakistan requested cancellation of $10 million from each Credit. In reporting
this cancellation to the Executive Directors on November 10, 1966, Mr. Woods
indicated that further reductions could be expected. Indeed, the Government
of Pakistan, when the examination of the revised projects was completed to
its satisfaction in April 1968, surrendered an additional $2.8 million from
Credit 41-PAK and $7.0 million fron- Credit 42-PAK, thus reducing the original
Credit for the Dacca project to $13.2 million and that for the Chittagong
project to $7.0 million.
3.        A great deal of time and effort has been spent in an attempt to
scale both projects down to a size which the authorities concerned, in the
light of experience gained and of new technical developments, would be
capable of financing and managing.   The attached Technical Reports (Nos. TO-
363d and TO-369d) describe in detail the history of the difficulties en-
countered and the scope of the revised projects as now agreed with the
Governments of Pakistan and of East Pakistan, and in this respect attention
is drawn to the sections entitled "Reasons for Changes" and "The Project
Revisions" in these Reports. A comparison between the original and the
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
President's Council
Executive Vice President, IFC
Vice President, IFC
Department Heads, Bank and IFC



- 2 -
revised projects will be found in Annex 2 to these Reports. In brief, both
projects have been modified to follow a more gradual pace of development
during the first stage of the cities' long-range water supply and sewerage
development program and to use different sources of water. In addition,
most sewerage construction in Chittagong has been deleted in favor of addi-
tional planning and design of a future sewerage project.
4.        The revised construction schedules provide for substantial
completion in 1970. As a consequence, it is proposed to extend the original
Closing Date of both Credits by one year to June 30, 1971. Further exten-
sions may prove necessary to complete disbursements, particularly in the
case of Chittagong. However, at the present time there would be little evi-
dence for establishing firm Closing Dates later than June 30, 1971. It is
therefore proposed that consideration of any further extension should be
deferred until early 1971 and the decision should then take into account
actual performance.
5.        As a consequence of the proposed changes in the Description of
the Projects, some of the understandings reached at the time the Credits
were signed would be modified to reflect the new situation. These changes
are summarized in paragraph 5.0a of the Technical Reports.
6.        Both in Dacca and Chittagong, new organizations were created in
1964 at municipal level to operate the services concerned. Because of the
lack of trained and experienced staff and of delays in establishing sound
management and operational procedures, performance to date has been poor.
Though operations are now beginning to improve, particularly in Dacca,
further efforts will be needed. The financial situation of these author-
ities is also a matter of concern. Cumulative receivables, owed mainly by
Government and its agencies, are excessive. This matter has been taken up
with the Government, together with the problem of payment for water provided
through street hydrants. Although certain steps have been taken, a critical
financial situation may develop in Chittagong within the next two or three
years, which could eventually lead to non-compliance with the Government's
undertakings in this respect. We have made it clear that the Association
may-have-to invoke remedies available to it unless corrective action is
taken.
7.        Despite these difficulties which will require continuous attention
on the part of the Association, I believe there would be no advantage in
delaying further finalization of the agreements reached on the revised pro-
jects which now correspond to the urgent needs of the cities. If for any
reason construction were to be stopped, much of the work accomplished to
date and the considerable effort made to organize and place into operation
the two municipal water and sewer authorities would be jeopardized.  In
addition, the lack of practicable alternatives and the potential contribu-
tions of these projects to development in East Pakistan justify the effort
and resources required to complete them.



- 3 -
8.        Consequently, in the absence of objection (to be notified to the
Secretary or Deputy Secretary by the close of business on October 8, 1968),
I propose that the Association agrees to the changes in the Description of
the Projects as set forth in Annexes 1 and 2 hereto, respectively, and to
the extension of the Closing Dates for both Credits from June 30, 1970 to
June 30, 1971.
Robert S. McNamara
President



FILE CoPY                      ANX
DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (CREDIT 41-PAK)
Revised Description of Project
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and
improvement of existing ones for the water supply and sewerage systems of
metropolitan Dacca and development of an adequate organization for their
efficient operation, as follows:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
New tubewells will be installed at various locations in Dacca,
and worthwhile existing ones will be improved, to meet average water prod-
uction requirements of about 30 IMgd (million imperial gallons per day) and
maximum requirements of about 40 IMgd. All water production will be metered.
New distribution mains and about four 1.0 million imperial gallon elevated
storage tanks will be constructed.  Existing treatment, pumping, distribution
and storage facilities will be improved to provide more effective service.
The Project includes new water service connections and a program
of installing water meters on both new and existing connections. These
elements of the Project will be adequate to provide on-premises water service
for a total of about 300,000 people in the metropolitan area and at least
50% of the water connections will be metered by the end of the construction
period. Existing street hydrants will be reconstructed and metered and new
ones added for a total of about 1,500. There will be an experimental program
of constructing and operating public sanitary structures.
B. Sewerage System
New works for the sewerage system include major sewers, lateral
sewers, intermediate pumping stations, a main pumping station, sewage treat-
ment lagoons and an outfall to the Burhi Ganga River. Existing sewerage
facilities wzill be improved and modified to provide more effective service.
New sewer service connections will be added so that when the Project is
completed not less than 50% of the buildings with water service connections
will also have sewer service connections.
C. Organization
An efficient organization will be developed for the Authority
enabling it to operate efficiently in accordance with sound public utility
practices. The Project includes a training program and the retention of
management and engineering consultants. Repair and storage facilities and
ancillary buildings will be erected and equipment and tools purchased as
necessary for efficient operations.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1970.



FILE      COPY                  ANNEX 2
FILE COPY             Page 1.
CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (CREDIT 42-PAK)
Revised Description of Project
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and improve-
ment of existing ones for the water supply system of metropolitan Chittagong
including facilities to protect the river water intake, the planning and
design of a sewerage system and development of an adequate organization for
their efficient operation, as follows:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
A new river water intake and treatment plant will be constructed, a
system of new tubewells will be installed and worthwhile existing tubewells
will be improved. Together these will be adequate to meet average water
production requirements of about 18 IMgd (million imperial gallons per day)
and maximum requirements of about 25 IMgd and all production will be metered.
Minimum waste diversion facilities necessary to protect the proposed river
water source from local pollution will be included in the construction and
effective pollution control regulations will be implemented to safeguard the
source against pollution increases. Pumping and transmission facilities wqill
be installed to deliver water from the new sources to metropolitan Chittagong.
New distribution mains and storage tanks wmill be added and existing ones will
be improved to provide more effective service. Repair and storage facilities
and ancillary buildings will be erected and equipment and tools purchased as
necessary for efficient operations.
The Project includes new water service connections and a program of
installing water meters on both new and existing connections. These elements
of the Project will be adequate to provide on-premises water service for a
total of about 50% of the people in the Project area and at least 75% of the
water connections will be metered by the end of the construction period. In
addition, existing public street hydrants will be reconstructed and metered
and new ones added for a total of 800 to 1,000. There will be an experimental
program of constructing and operating public sanitary structures.
B. Sewerage System
The Project will include planning and design of a sewerage system
for Chittagong. Planning will comprise feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering for a new long-range sewerage program and will attempt to identify
a viable first stage sewer construction project. Design will consist of
detailed engineering for a suitable first stage project if one is identified.
The waste diversion facilities included under Part A will be designed and
built so they can be incorporated into the sewerage system.



ANNEX 2
Page 2.
C. Organization
An efficient organization will be developed for the Authority,
enabling it to operate in accordance with sound public utility practices.
The Project includes a training program and the retention of management
consultants.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1970.



DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF REVISIONS TO THE
DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUI1A.RY                                                       i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION'                                                   1
2.   PROPOSED PROJECT REVISIONS
A. The Original Project                                    2
B. Reasons for Changes                                     3
C. The Project Revisions                                  4
D. Estimated Cost                                         7
E. Procurement and Disbursement                            8
F. Engineering and Construction                            8
3.   ORGANIZATIONI, Y  AGEMEN4T ANJD OPERATIONS                      10
4.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Water and Sewer Rates and Collections                   13
B.  Present Financial Position                             14
C. Future Financial Position                              15
D. Financing Plan                                         16
5.   CONCLUSIONS                                                    18
ANETAEXES
1 Description of Original Project
2 Comparison of Original and Revised Project
3 Estimated Cost of Revised Project
4 Sunmmary of Water and Sewer Rates and Charges
5 Comparative Income Statement - 1966 through 1968
6 Summary of Billings, Collections and Accounts Receivable -
1966 through 1968
7 Highlights of Consolidated Financial Projections
8 Assumptions for Financial Projections
NA1PS
1 Proposed Water Supply Project
2 Proposed Sewerage Project
This report is based on field investigations in February and December 1967
by Messrs. P. Callejas and P. F. Lu and in May 1968 by M4essrs. Lu and
R. F. Robertson. The report was prepared by M'essrs. Callejas and Lu.



APPRAISAL OF REVISIONS TO THE DACCA WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMRY
i.        The Government of Pakistan has asked the International Development
Association to approve revisions to the Water Supply and Sewerage Project
for Dacca, East Pakistan which would require related changes to the existing
credit documents.
ii.       Credit 41-PAK for US$26.0 million was made to the Government of
Pakistan on August 16, 1963 to kelp finance a water supply and sewerage
project for the City of Dacca.I/It became effective on March 6, 1964. The
Central Government has made the proceeds of the Credit available to the
Province of East Pakistan on IDA terms. The Province relends the funds,
on terms prevailing in Pakistan for similar projects, to the Dacca Authority
(Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Authority), a new agency established as a
condition of effectiveness under the Credit Agreement.
iii.      The project encountered a series of difficulties and by the end
of 1965 the history of the project made it clear that the Association and
the others concerned with it had been overly optimistic in accepting a
project that was too ambitious; as planned the project was too sophisti-
cated and required too rapid expansion of Dacca's water supply and sewerage
operations. The government, the Dacca Authority and the Association agreed
that it should be restudied in the light of the past experience and new
technical developments. Substantial revisions now are proposed as a result
of these studies.
iv.       By October 1966 studies of feasible project revisions were
sufficiently advanced to show that the Credit could be reduced safely to
US.$16.0 million. Accordingly, the Government of Pakistan requested can-
cellation of US$10.0 million of the Credit; this was made on November 2,
1966. When the project studies were completed to its satisfaction,
indicating further cost reductions, the government requested another
cancellation of US$2.8 million. This became effective on April 1, 1968,
leaving a Credit of US$13.2 million. During the time required to revise
the project, work has continued on some original project elements which
would definitely remain a part of the revised project and disbursements
from the Credit totaled about US$1.37 million equivalent on August 31,1968.
v.        The revised Dacca project is defined broadly as all capital
improvements to be made by the Dacca Authority through mid 1970. These
investments should provide adequate water supply and sewerage facilities
for Dacca until about 1976. The project includes additional management
advice and new training programs for all levels of the operating and
administrative staff. The major changes from the original project other
than the cost reduction are a more gradual rate of expanding water supply
and sewer services, the improved utilization of ground water instead of
developing a more expensive river water source, the rehabilitation and
utilization of existing facilities, both water and sewer, to the maximum
extent, and extension of the completion and closing dates by one year.
V/ IDA Credit 42-PAK was made at the same time for a similar project in
Chittagong, East Pakistan. Revisions to the Chittagong Project also
are proposed and are the subject of a separate report.



-ii -
vi.      The project changes proposed by the Authority and its consultants,
are based on the experience gained over the past four years. The revisions
are practical responses to the problems encountered and should result in a
project more consistent with local requirements and means. The revised
project is technically sound, the estimated costs are reasonable and arrange-
ments for construction are satisfactory. However, the Authority's time
schedule for completing construction appears too optimistic. The proposed
new closing date has been set at June 30, 1971, one year later than the
completion goal (and the original closing date), thus allowing for some
slippage in the construction program and the Authority might be able to
complete withdrawals from the Credit by then. Further extension of the
closing date beyond June 30, 1971 is not recommended at this time; if an
extension is required to complete disbursements, the decision should be based
on the Dacca Authorityts performance by early 1971.
vii.     The total cost of the revised project is estimated to be PRs 177.2
million (equivalent to US$37.2 million) including expenditures already made,
consulting services, contingencies and interest during construction. The
estimated foreign exchange costs total US$13.2 million equivalent (about
35% of the total costs). The project revisions would result in a total
project cost reduction of 32% (PRs 89 million, equivalent to US$18.7 million);
68% of this estimated saving is foreign exchange.
viii.    The Authority's financial position is still weak but has improved
creditably.  In fiscal 1968 alone, revenue was almost 100% more than in
1965 and collections have increased about 280%.
ix.      Management and operational efficiency have made significant progress,
but management and a shortage of competent staff, particularly at inter-
mediate levels still are problems which require continued attention. The
project revisions are intended to assist in this effort. The Authority's
success, however, will depend on more support than it has received in the
past from the Government of East Pakistan to resolve a critical question
about adequate income for street hydrant services and to obtain prompt
payment for the services the Authority provides to government and municipal
departments and agencies.
x.       Although it can be expected to face continuing difficulties and to
require very close supervision by the Association the project, with the
proposed revisions, would make an important contribution to development in
East Pakistan.
xi.      Approval of the project revisions by the Association would require
changes in the existing credit documents (paragraph 5.05) including an
extension of the closing date to June 30, 1971. Additional changes have
been agreed with Pakistan to help assure that the Authority eventually
attains an acceptable level of performance. No change is contemplated in
the terms and conditions established under the Credit by which the Govern-
ment of Pakistan relends the proceeds of the Credit to the Dacca Authority
through the Government of East Pakistan.



APPRAISAL OF REvISIONS TO THE DACCA WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      IDA Credit 41-PAK, for US$26.0 million, was made to the Govern-
ment of Pakistan on August 16, 1963 to cover the estimated foreign exchange
cost of a water supply and sewerage project for the City of Dacca _
(Report TO-363a dated June 18, 1963). It became effective on March 6, 1964.
Progress on the project was hampered by a series of difficulties and by the
end of 1965 it was apparent that the project was over-ambitious. The
government, the Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Authority and the Association
agreed upon new feasibility studies to identify a substantially revised
project better suited to Dacca's requirements and circumstances and taking
advantage of the past experience on the project and of new technical
developments with respect to groundwater sources.
1.02      By October 1966, preliminary results of the new project studies
demonstrated that the Credit could be safely reduced to Us$16 million,
leaving an adequate amount to cover the revised estimate of foreign exchange
costs. Accordingly, on November 2, 1966, US$10 million of the Credit was
cancelled at the Government of Pakistan's request. When the studies were
completed to its satisfaction, and further cost reductions were indicated,
the government requested another cancellation of US$2.8 million. This was
made on April 1, 1968 leaving a Credit of US$13.2 million.
1.03      In order to proceed with the rvised project, changes to the
credit documents are required. Suggested amendments were mailed to
Pakistan in August 1967. Difficulties with respect to the revisions
proposed for the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Project delayed the
Government of Pakistan's approval of the document amendments for both
project until April 1968.
1.04      In the meantime, work has continued on certain facilities included
in the original project which would remain a part of the revised project.
Actual disbursements from the Credit totaled US$1,391,817 equivalent as of
August 31, 1968, primarily for consulting services and some purchases of
pipe and equipment. Local currency expenditures from government funds
through March 1968 total about PRs 30 million - about PRs 24 million for
the project and about PRs 6 million for other capital investments not included
in the original project.
1.05      This report covers the appraisal of proposed revisions to the
Water Supply and Sewerage Project for Dacca, East Pakistan. It was prepared
by Messrs. P. Callejas and P.F. Lu based on field investigations by them in
February and December 1967, and another mission by Messrs. Lu and R.F.Robertson
in May 1968 and on additional information submitted by the Dacca Water Supply
and 9ewerage Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Dacca Authority).
1/ IDA Credit 42-PAK was made at the same time for a similar project for
Chittagong, East Pakistan. Revisions to the Chittagong project also are
proposed and are the subject of a separate report.



-2-
2   PROPOSED PROJECT REVISIONS
A. The Original Project
2.01      The original project was to be the first stage of a long-range
program to improve and expand water supply and sewerage facilities in the
Dacca metropolitan area. It was scheduled for completion in July 1969
and was intended to provide water service at the dwellings of about
420,000 people (about 65% of the city's estimated population in 1969) and
sewer service for about 210,000 people. In addition, street hydrants and
new public sanitary structures were to provide service for about 24O,OOO
people. The major project elements, such as treatment plants, pumping
stations and large pipe lines, were intended to be adequate for the city's
expanding water supply and sewer services until at least about 1978. Annex 1
gives a broad description of the original project.
2.02      A key element to the success of the project was the establishment
of a new agency, the Dacca Authority, to consolidate and operate
the water supply and sewerage utilities in Dacca. To assist in this,
management consulting services were included in the project.
2.03      The estimated total cost of the original project was PRs 261.3
million including interest during construction. The foreign exchange
component was US$26.0 million (equivalent to PRs 123.8 million), about
47% of the total.
2.04      The Dacca project was first designed by the Parsons Corporation,
Los Angeles, California under a grant from the United States Agency for
International Development. It was scaled down considerably as the basis
for the original_JDA-.-CrRdj,t. The same firm was retained by the Government
of East Pakistan to supervise eonstruction and provide other engineering
,erviees under the Credit.
2.05      For management consulting services, the Dacca Authority retained
EBS Management Consultants, New York, in a joint venture with EWP Associates,
a Pakistan accounting firm.



-3-
B. Reasons for Changes
2.06      The history of this project has made it clear that the Association
and the others concerned with it had been overly optimistic in accepting a
project that was too ambitious. The task now is to design a project which
draws on the lessons of the past few years and is thus better related to the
local situation. The main problems encountered on the Dacca project were
(a) unsatisfactory bidding results on the supply and construction contracts;
(b) changes in the city's planned road construction program; (c) slow
progress in organizing the Authority; (d) the Authority's unsatisfactory
finances; and (e) disappointing work by the consultants.
2.07      The original project's size and complexity required the use of
foreign contractors and suppliers for most of the work.  However, inter-
national competitive bidding for the major construction and supply contracts
for both the Dacca and Chittagong projects (paragraph 1.01) in November 1964
was unsatisfactory. More than 60 firms had obtained the joint bidding
documents, but there were few bids and for most contracts the bid prices
were prohibitive. An extensive international canvass of potentially
interested firms was made which showed that, primarily because there was
no experience on large projects of this type in East Pakistan, firms were
reluctant to assume the risks of the comprehensive, large-scale contracts
which had been put out for bids. Therefore the bidding documents were
recast, including many design changes, to make the project more attractive
to bidders and less costly to the Authority. In the meantime, application
of experience on other work in East Pakistan to Dacca's proposed project
indicated that its cost could still be too high and that construction
probably would require much more time than originally anticipated. These
prospects prompted the decision, in 1965, to restudy the project and, if
feasible, adopt a whole new approach. A further need for changes resulted
from the postponement of new road construction in the most congested section
of Dacca, affecting the installation of some of the larger pipelines.
2.08      A slow start was made toward properly organizing the Authority
and establishing sound management and operational procedures. Financial
results soon fell about one year behind the program which had been worked
out for the Authority in order to support the original project. It became
apparent that the Authority could not develop as quickly as was originally
anticipated. The principal deficiency iwas trained and experienced staff
to run a wiater supply and sewerage utility on a commercial basis. Another
delaying element was the time required to establish the principle that the
cost of these utility services should be recovered from the beneficiaries.
2.09      Disappointing results from the work by the management and the
engineering consultants, and insufficient cooperation between them and
the Authority contributed to the problems. Staff selection and home office
support by both consulting firms were poor. The management consultants
were never able to establish the necessary rapport with the client and
tended to produce reports with limited practical application for the
Authority at that stage of its development. The management team and the
Authority did not cooperate to evaluate and benefit from the limited attempts
made to apply the consultant's recommendations. The engineering consultants
lacked the capacity for identifying the need and possibilities for project
improvements and were slow to recognize local developments which would
affect the project.



-4-
2.10      These problems alone were enough to require a new evaluation of
the project; but there was also an important technical development. The
original project was based on the use of water from the Lakhya River
(Annex 1), requiring a heavy initial investment. By 1966 there had been
sufficient investigation and development work on the utilization of ground
water sources in the vicinity of Dacca to demonstrate that properly con-
structed tubewells in and around the city, using methods new to East Pakistan,
could be expected to meet Dacca's water requirements economically for ten
or more years.
C. The Project Revisions
2.11      Annex 2 compares the revised project with the original.  Maps 1
and 2 show the principal elements of the revised projects. The project
would be changed to follow a more gradual pace of development during the
first stage of Dacca's long-range water supply and sewerage program.   Upon
project completion in 1970, the Dacca Authority intends to have water
connections to serve about 300,000 people (45% of the expected 1970
population) and 50% to 60% of the buildings with water servica would also
have sewer service.  More than 50% of the water service connections would
be metered, compared to less than 20%J at present.  The revised rates for
making new service connections and meter installations would be about
two-thirds of the rates proposed for the original project.
2.12      In addition to the service connections, public street hydrants
would be rebuilt and metered and new ones added so that there would be a
total of 1,500 hydrants, located and constructed to give maximum benefits
to the segment of the population with lowest income. Also, an experimental
program to provide suitable public sanitary structures would be inaugurated.
These plans for public facilities represent a change from the original
project by concentrating more on public street hydrants and less on public
sanitary structures; experience has shown that the latter require a longer
period of trial before the Authority would be justified in proceeding with
large scale construction.
2.13      As a source of water, the Dacca Authority would defer the use of
the Lakhya River (Map 1) and would develop recently proven groundwater
sources in Dacca to produce about as much water as the original project but
at lower cost (paragraph 2.10). Also, a small surface water treatment plant
would be rehabilitated. Overall productive capacity probably would be
increased from about 18 IMgd in 1966 to about 35 Ilgd in 1970; peak capacity
would be about 47 IMgdc1/. When actual production reaches these levels in
about 1976 (paragraph 2.15) the Lakhya River source probably will have to
be developed as originally planned. The distribution network in Dacca would
be strengthened and expanded substantially but the transmission and primary
supply mains, originally required in conjunction with the Lakhya River
source, would be deferred. MIore attention would be given to repairing
existing water mains to improve efficiency and reduce leaks.
1/ This is about 17% higher than given in the revised project description
because new sources now appear to be more productive than was anticipated
although this will have to be proven over an extended period. The original
project would have provided average productive capacity of 35 INgd and
peak capacity of 50 IMgd in 1969 with some elements of substantially
higher capacity to provide for future expansions.



-5-
2.14      The proposed water supply facilities are based on studies carried
out during the last two years, as to water use, waste and leakage in the
system. Per capita domestic use is expected to range from 20 gallons per
day (gpd) to 40 gpd at domestic service connections depending on the type
of housing. There are reasonable allowances for commercial, industrial and
government use.   Water requirements are also based on high but realistic
allowances for wasteful or excessive water use and leakage throughout the
system during the construction period with gradual improvement thereafter
(paragraph 3.09). A key project objective is to reduce these; meters and
other project components should bring substantial improvements.
2.15      The Dacca Authority expects average water production to have
increased from tout 16.5 IMgd in 1966 to about 30 Il4gd by 1970 and about
35 IMgd in 1976- . For the original project, average 1970 production
requirements were estimated lower (about 21 IM4gd) due to a low estimate of
waste and losses. Average 1976 production originally was estimated at
33.5 IiHigd.
2.16      The principal change in the sewerage project is a substantial
reduction in the size of the major sewers. For example, the largest sewer,
leading to the treatment plant, has been reduced from 96 inch to 54 inch
diameter. The changes in size result from a number of inter-related factors
including: (a) the slower rate proposed for expanding sewer services;
(b) an extensive re-evaluation of the existing system which demonstrated
that economical improvements would extend service life for many years;
(c) a more realistic evaluation of future increase in sewerage flows; and
(d) more economical methods for increasing system capacity as required from
time to time in the future.
2.17      The project also includes a number of general items required for
the overall operations of the Dacca Authority. These comprise storage
facilities, workshops, equipment and tools, management consulting services
and a training program. The latter would be coordinated with U.S.AID
training project for public health personnel, carried cut under the Pro-
vince's Directorate of Public Health Engineering, which already has helped
the Authority by accepting scme of its staff for special training.
2.18      The major elements of the revised project, such as the tubewells,
the sewage treatment plant, pumping stations and large pipelines should be
adequate to meet Dacca's requirements until about 1976 without significant
additions. Meters, service connections and the smaller size water mains
and sewers to which connections are made would continue to increase as
normal yearly extensions after the project is completed.
2.19      The proposed project revisions respond satisfactorily to the
problems encountered with the original project. Ilost investment in long-
term capacity, such as the Laklya River water treatment plant, which would
1/ This depends largely on progress in reducing waste and losses. There
is a good probability that water production could almost level off at
about 30 IMgd for the years 1969-1971 as reduction in wasteful use and
leakage offsets water requirements of added customers and the Authority
devotes itself to replacing inefficient existing tubewells with small
net gain in capacity.



-6-
not be fully utilized within the next few years would be postponed. There
would be more rehabilitation of existing facilities where this is
economical. Thus, the project would be smaller, less complicated and
costly and would be phased over a longer period. Equipment and supplies
would be easier to obtain and install and construction could be carried
out mainly by local contractors. Smaller pipeline sizes and revised layouts
would permit much greater construction flexibility and are less likely to
be seriously affected by changes in the city's road construction program.
The contract documents would reflect the earlier bidding experience, resolving
many of the previous uncertainties. Together, these aspects of the revised
project should resolve most of the earlier procurement difficulties.
2.20      The project revisions would make it possible for the Dacca Authority
to give first priority to improvements and extensions which would lead quickly
to better water and sewer services.  Operations would be much simpler and
the financial burden substantially less - both more suitable in terms of the
rate of improvement now expected of the Authority's organization and finances.
At the same time, more effective management assistance, working in a better
atmosphere, together with the training program, should help to strengthen
the Authority.
2.21      As for con'sulting services, the Authority has come to realize
that qualified advisors should be used more effectively if it is to carry
out the project efficiently. This has already served to create a better
working environment for the consultants. The A-uthority also has moved to
improve the quality of the services it obtains. The management consulting
contract was terminated, although the local accounting firm in the joint
venture (paragraphs 2.05 and 2.09) has been retained for additional assistance
on financial management, records and reports. As part of the revised
project, the Authority would obtain the services of an experienced public
utilities manager for two or more years to serve as personal advi5or to the
Chairman on all aspects of the Authority's activities, particularly commer-
cial and planning. In addition, short-term services of specialized advisors
would be obtained as they prove to be necessary. These arrangements should
be satisfactory, providing that the consultants supervise the implementation
of their recommendations and make periodic reports on the effectiveness of
all steps taken to improve management and operations.
2.22      The Authority decideA to continue with the engineering consultants
(paragraphs 2.04 and 2.09) if their field organization was revamped and
their methods improved. These steps were taken and are continuing. In
addition, the Authority arranged for an independent review of project engi-
neering by Camp, Dresser & McKee, Boston, 14assachusetts, who are working
also as general consultants to the Government of East Pakistan on its water
supply and sewerage programs. These steps have been effective. The Parsons
Corporation has cooperated closely with Camp, Dresser & McKee and the
Association, has worked to develop a sound relationship iwith the Authority
and has demonstrated its ability to obtain acceptable construction work
from local contractors. Nevertheless, the Association is continuing to
insist on further improvements to certain aspects of the consultant's wzork
on planning and the preparation of bidding documents.



-7-
D. Estimated Cost
2.23      The total irivestment recuired for the revised project is estimated
to be PRs 177.2 million (equivalent to US$37.2 million) including interest
during construction as summarized below. Detailed construction cost esti-
mates are given in Annex 3.
Expressed in PRs          Expressed in US$
Local   Foreign   Total   Locai   Foreign   Total
-------------------millions--------------------
Construction
Water Supply         36.77    26.15     62.92     7.73    5.49    13.22
Sewerage             42.93    24h78    67.71     9.01    5.20    14.21
Sub-total            79.70    50.93   130.63    1&X74   10.69    27.h3
Engineering and
Supervision          11.19     4.68    15.87     2.36    0.99     3.35
Management Consulting
and Training          1.31     1.11     2.42     0.27    0.23     0.50
Unallocated             4h46      6.15    10.61     0.93    1.29      2.22
Total                96.66    62.87   159.53    20.30   13.20    33.50
Interest During
Construction         17.71        0    17.71     3.72       0     3.72
Total               114.37    62.87   177.24    2h.02   13.20     37.22
% of Original
Project Costs          82%      51%      68/%
2.24      The cost estimates include all expenditures already made on the
original project and on the additional elements which would go into the
revised project. Estimated future expenditures are based on preliminary
or detailed project designs and on recent bidding experience and price
quotations for the proposed types of materials and equipment. Local
currency costs include all import duties, sales and other taxes now in
effect. The individual items of all future expenditures, except consulting
services, include allovTances for price escalation at 4% per year and a
contingency allowance of about 8%. The additional unallocated allowance
is equivalent to about 10% of al1 future construction expenditures and
about 8.5% of all future project costs except interest during construction.



-8-
2.25      The foreign exchange costs of US$13.2 million (including some
local costs to the extent that local suppliers win contracts in intern-
ational competition - see paragraph 2.27) would be covered by the IDA
Credit and represent about 35% of the total as compared to about 47% in
the original project. The foreign exchange estimates include the C.I.F.
cost of all materials and equipment wvhich may be imported, based on the
assumption that all supply contracts which might interest foreign bidders
are won by them.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
2.26      Procurement procedures would be in accordance with the normal IDA
requirements which have been followed for the original project. Supply
contracts for materials and equipment would continue to be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. On these, the government has
requested a margin of preference to domestic over foreign suppliers in
the comparison of bids and the Association is attempting to reach an
agreement with the government on an appropriate margin and the method of
its application. Most construction would be done by local contractors
(paragraph 2.19) under contracts which would not be of a size and nature
to attract international competitive interest.
2.27      Disbursements from the Credit would be for the foreign exchange
costs of goods and services, plus perhaps a limited amount of expenditures
on goods produced in Pakistan under supply contracts awiarded by the
Authority on the basis of international competition after January l, 1967,
and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. Such
disbursements would be primarily for pipe and fittings for which some
local manufacturing capacity has developed since this Credit was made;
the amounts are already included in the estimated foreign exchange costs
(paragraph 2.25). Supply-contracts already awarded for such goods have a
total value of about US$1.3 million equivalent.  About US$o.5 million of
this (40%) is for local products. Additional pipe supply contracts worth
about US$1.2 million will be bid in future.
2.28      If foreign exchange disbursements are less than the amount of
the reduced Credit, the undisbursed balance would be cancelled on the clos-
ing date of the Credit unless, in the light of circumstances then existing,
the Borrower and the Association agree that withdrawals from the balance
would be made on account of additional local currency project expenditures.
This is in accordance with the present agreements.
F. Engineering and Construction
2.29      Project design is being done by the consulting engineers.  Other
elements, such as rehabilitation works, are being designed jointly by the
consulting engineers and the engineering staff from the Dacca Authority.
The fundamental criteria upon which the project designs are based, including
selection of construction methods and materials suitable for local conditions,
were reviewed and approved by a separate engineering firm (paragraph 2.22).



-9-.
The consulting engineers are responsible for preparing bidding documents,
construction drawings and specifications, for evaluating bids and for
overall supervision of construction. The Authority approves the bid documents
and bid evaluations and it awards the contracts. Awards of major contracts
to foreign bidders are also subject to government approval. Much of the
routine inspection of construction would be done by the Authority's staff
under the direction of the consulting engineers; this would provide training
in an area in wThich the Authority is weak.  The above arrangements are
satisfactory provided the present procedure continues wheroby all work on the
project is crtified as satisfactory by the oonsulting engineers as the basis
for payments by or on behalf of the Authority. This conforms to present pro-
cedures and is necessary because it will take a few years for the Authority'O
own staff to beeome skilled in providing sound oontrol over procurement
and construction, and because, in the past, divided control over the cloments
that would go into the revised project has proven unsatisfactory.
2.30      Construction has been scheduled for completion by June 30, 19702Z
the date used in the proposed revision to the Description of Project in
the Credit Agreement. It now appears unlikely that this date wrill be met
because it has taken longer than expected to accelerate the construction
pace to the necessary level. The water supply part of the project now
appears to be proceeding satisfactorily and there is a fair chance that it
could be substantially completed in 1970. The sewerage construction schedule
is much more of a problem; among other things, slow pipe procurement from
local suppliers is now delaying progress and construction undoubtedly wxill
continue into 1971.
2.31      Flowever, the proposed new closing date of June 30, 1971 allows
for slippage in the construction program ard the Authority might be able
to complete its withdravTals from the Credit before that time. In any event,
there is little evidence at present for establishing a firm closing date
later than June 30, 1971, and since an attempt to further alter the dates
which have been agreed with the government would cause more delays, no
change is proposed at this time. If a future extension of the closing
date proves necessary to complete disbursements, the decision should be based
on the Authority's actual performance by early 1971. If it is satisfactory
a firm date can be established. If it is not, the balance of the Credit
should be cancelled.
2.32      Land acquisition for the project is well in hand; the Authority
already is free to use almost all of the land it requires and no difficulty
or delay is expected on the balance.
l/ The original completion date was June 30, 1969.



-10-
3. ORGANIZATIOU, M1AIAGEEMNT AND OPERATIOUS
3.01      The Dacca Authority was established under "The East Pakistan Water
Supply and Sewerage Authority Ordinance, 1963"1/. It took over those water
supply and sewerage facilities in Dacca which had been under East Pakistan's
Directorate of Public Health Engineering or under the Dacca Municipal Com-
mittee. The Authority has its own administration and independent accounts
and it is solely responsible for the management and operation of the public
water and sewerage facilities in a specifically defined area which includes
Dacca and its suburbs. Control of the Authority is by the Authority Board
composed of 13 appointed and elected officials representing local government,
private local interests and the Provincial Government. The Authority
Chairman is appointed by the Provincial Government, after prior consultation
with the Association, and acts as chief executive officer. Accounts are
audited amnually bi a private firm appointed by the Authority and approved
by the Association_/.
3.02      The Authority is not truly autonomous since its budget, any pro-
posed capital investment programs and proposed changes in water and sewer
rates and in its scale of salaries require approval by the Provincial
Government's Department of Basic Democracies and Local Government (BD&UG).
This Department is also responsible for the Municipal Committees (such as
the Dacca Municipal Committee) and the Directorate of Public Health Engi-
neering, which is convenient in coordinating activities and settling
disputes on matters which concern the Authority. In general, BD&IG has
satisfactorily administered its responsibilities with respect to the Dacca
Authority, playing an important role by occasionally prodding the Authority
into necessary action and supporting the Authority in its dealings with
other government agencies. The limitations on the Authority's autonomy
do not appear to have an adverse effect on its operations except in the case
of salary levels which are tied to civil service scales and hinder the
Authority's recruiting attempts. In due course, it may be desirable for
the Authority to gain a greater degree of independence, permitting it to
respond more quiclly in meeting its responsibilities as a self-supporting
utility.
3.03      A good deal has been done since the Dacca Authority's establish-
ment to organize it on a satisfactory basis, but much remains to be
accomplished.  The key post is that of the Chairman.  For the first two
years, the Authority's development was hampered by a series of temporary
part time appointees.  During the past two years, however, an able
official has held the post on a full-time basis.
1/ Amended in 1966.
2/ New auditors, S. Zaman & Co., Dacca, were appointed February 21, 1968.



-11-
3.04      Below the Chairman, there is a lack of competent professional staff.
A new Commercial Manager has been obtained from the Provincial Government
only recently and it is too early to evaluate his capability. In the past,
the Authority has been over-staffed with indifferent personnel deputed from
various government departments at the time the Authority was established.
The Authority has been attempting graduaUly to shed excess or unsatisfactory
personnel and recruit staff better suited to the Authority's requirements
as a commercial operation.  This difficult and slow process is expected to
continue during the course of this project. The main problem is that of
finding properly qualified people in East Pakistan; this underlines the
importance of the management consulting services and especially the training
program included in the revised project.
3.05      The Authority's Commercial Department has made significant progress
in the last two years. It has substantially completed putting its accounts
on a commercial basis, as recommended by the management consultants, largely
through the assistance of a local accounting firm (paragraph 2.21) which is
advising and training the accounting staff. The Authority's accounts for
the fiscal years ending June 30, 1966 and 1967 have been certified by the
independent auditing firm. However, there are still many problems and it
lfill be some time before this department can be expected to become a compact
and efficient unit. Overall financial management also requires much
improvement; now that accounts are in order, the Authority has to learn how
to use the accounting information effectively as a management tool.
3.06      The Engineering Department also has made significant progress
since 1963. Maintenance and operation of the water supply and sewerage
facility has improved. W4ater production from existing facilities, for
example, has increased substantially more than predicted at the time the
original project was appraised. Some of this improvement results from the
help of new consulting engineering staff.  Talent for routine design appears
to be improving gradually through increasing contact and improved relations
with the consulting engineers. Capabilities for construction supervision
are very limited but should improve through the experience gained on the
revised project. Capacity for planning is inadequate and the Engineering
Department should benefit from appropriate guidance by the engineering and
management advisors.
3.07      The Dacca Authority operates 67 tubewells and one small surface
water treatment plant. IPietered water production from 20 of the newest
and largest tubewells and from the surface water plant now averages about
16 Lvigd. The other 47 tubewells produce an estimated 7 to 9 INgd for a
total production averaging about 25 INgd. Substantially all production is
chlorinated using equipment installed within the last three years. Main-
tenance and operations are considerably better than in 1964 when they were
very poor and the improvement continues.



-12-
3.08      Most of the 47 unmetered tubewells are small, ineffiiient and in
poor condition; these will be retired and replaced with about 8 larger
tubewells as part of the revised project. Others with potential for pro-
fitable use, either as primary water sources or standby and peaking faci-
lities, are to be rehabilitated and metered.
3.09      Losses, waste and excessive water use in the system are very
high, probably in the order of 55% of production. This estimate is based cn a 
com.parison between actual wiater producticn and reasonable uise in Dacca with
the numbers and types of existing connections. The principal causes
probably are uncontrolled use at unmetered connections and street hydrants,
although leaks and illegal connections are other important factors. The
Authority has started the complicated, slow, trial and error process of
correcting this situation. This is being done zone by zone and involves
distribution repairs and improvements, valve installations to permit
isolation of areas where 24 hour service can be attempted, street hydrant
reconstruction and metering, service connection metering, billing on the
basis of metered consumption and public education. These procedures could
bring significant improvements during the construction period, but it will
be many years before losses and waste can be reduced to appropriate levels.
The ultimate goal is to meter and obtain revenue for at least 80% of the
water produced. The data collected in the first zones wqill be very valuable
in guiding the Authority's operations and construction programs.
3.10      In the last two years, the Dacca Authority has made some notable
improvements to the sewerage facilities, including the detection and
elimination of some major sewer defects which allowied large quantities of
surface water to enter the sewers. Together with improvements to existing
sewage pumping facilities and operations, these have increased the present
system's effective capacity to serve additional sewer customers.



- 13 -
4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Water and Sewer Rates and Collections
4.01      The present rate schedule was put into effect on November 1,
1966 and is summarized in Annex 4. For water, it sets charges based
either upon the property tax for unmetered connections or upon metered
consumption. Sewer service charges are equal to the water charges for
each property. This new rate schedule is an improvement in several
respects; principally, it increased metered water charges per thousand
gallons from PRs 1.0 to PRs 2.0 or more depending on the type of con-
sumer. The government was slow in approving the new rate schedule, but
there was no difficulty in putting the schedule into effect. As the
Authority carries out its program for new connections and metering,
the rate schedule should produce satisfactory revenues with only minor
adjustments for several years (paragraph 4.10). Connection fees are
about triple the actual average cost to the Authority and are compara-
tively high in terms of per capita income. To date, this has not
affected the connection program but in time, the Authority may have to
reduce the connection fees or permit installment payments to meet its
connection program.
4.02      Water charges for public street hydrants have been an important
problem for several years with repeated assurances to the Association
that satisfactory arrangements had been or were about to be made.!/ In
early 1967, the East Pakistan Government and the Dacca Municipality
agreed to pay jointly PRs 1,000 per street hydrant per year, equivalent
to about PRs 1.5 per 1,000 gallons of estimated water use at the hydrants.
The Chittagong Municipality was successful in fighting a government order
for a similar agreement with the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority, so the Dacca Municipality withdrew its agreement and no
payments have been made. In May 1968, the Provincial Government told an
IDA supervision mission that the Dacca Municipality would pay the
Authority a flat PRs 1.0 million per year for the street hydrant service
and that the government would reimburse the municipality for up to 50%
of that amount. Instead, in July 1968, the East Pakistan Government
advised the Association of a substantially different arrangement. This
would not be adiquato becanse, starting in fiscal 1970, the Authority s
income for this community service would be only about 25b of the estimated
cost3.  In consecanncu the Association again-requczted that tho government
3hould prompnJy arrange for adcquatc payment. The Association advised both
thc Govornmmnt of East Pakistan and tho Gontral Government that the alter-
native to thin appoared to be higher vator rates in the future (paragraph
4.10) in order to comply with the rate covenant in the Project Agreement.
/ As an indication of magnitude, appropriate charges for street hydrant
services would amount to about 15% of projected income in fiscal 1969,
declining gradually to about 7% in fiscal 1976.



- 14 -
Payments to the Afuthority chould bc at lcaot oquivalcnt to PRs 1.0 por
1000 gallons of notorccd wantcr usu at the hydr-.nts or a mininum payment
of about PRs 1.0 million por ycar based on thc number of hydrants now
in servicc.
4.03      There also has been a problem about rates and charges for the
government's refugee housing colony at Mirpur. Its water system, though
separate, is within the Authority's jurisdiction and is operated by the
Authority. By law, the monthly charge for water service is PRs 1.0 per
dwelling unit which is less than the Authority's actual costs. The
government has now agreed to reimburse the Authority for the cost of
operating and maintaining the Mirpur system. This cost would be deter-
mined from the Authorityts accounts.
4.04      The Authority has made continuous progress with collections;
for 1967 they were almost 280% more than in 1965. Nevertheless, much
more improvement is required. Total collections, including income
from arrears, averaged only about 80% of billings for fiscal 1967 and
the pro forma accounts indicate about the same for 1968. Thus,
accunulated receivables have been increasing. As of March 31, 1968,
they were equivalent to about one year's billing. Part of this is
because there had been no policy for writing off bad debts; this
deficiency is being corrected. The most serious cause of poor collections
are the government departments and agencies which were unaccustomed to
paying for water and sewer services and failed to budget for such payments.
The government has taken some steps to rectify this deficiency, and in
1966 and 1967 partial payments were made, but this will be a long slow
process, related to government budgeting and payment procedures, and it
is evident that the Authority will not receive full payment for some
time. The Authority is empowered to shut off water service in case of
failure to pay water or sewer bills, but has been timid about exercising
this step until recently. Nor does the Authority charge interest on
overdue bills. It has initiated a system of rebates for prompt payment
and the Authority expects this to be effective with private customers.
With respect to the revised project, the Government of East Pakistan has
agreed that the Authority will employ effective billing and collection
procedures, including exercising its right to promptly discontinue
service for failure to pay. However, in view of the past history, the
govorrrunt should mako a fim coranimont writh rcspect to settlement
of all arrears by government and municipal departments and agencies and
with respect to prompt future payments for service provided to these
customers.
B. Present Financial Position
4.05      Annex 5 summarizes the finances of the Dacca Authority for the
fiscal years ending June 30, 1966, 1967 and 1968. Annex 6 shows the
billings, collections and accounts receivable for those years. Data for
fiscal 1964 and 1965 are not shown because the accounts and records were
not compatible with the new accounting system and comparative analysis
of the data has little meaning. As shown in the Annexes, the figures
for 1966 and 1967 as taken from the annual reports also do not fully



-15-
reflect the actual situation because some accounts were improperly treated
during the accounting transition period. These have been adjusted by the
Association to remove the most significant distortions. The 1968 figures
are pro forma, based on the three quaterly reports received to date, but
should be representative.
4.o6     The Authority's present financial position is weak but represents
a creditable improvement in the finances of tD.cca's water supply and sewer-
age operations since the Authority was established. Revenues increased
about 13% in 1967 and about 14.5% in 1968. In spite of the deficient records
available for 1965 (the Authority's first full year of operation), it
appears that revenues have increased almost 100% since then. Operating
costs including depreciation increased about 8% between 1966 and 1967 with
little further increase in 1968. Operating costs before depreciation have
declined from about 99% of revenues in 1966 to about 75% in 1968. In-
cluding depreciation, the operating ratio was 122% in 1966 and about 101%
in 1968. Much of the improved performance has come from more diligent
billing procedures rather than any increase in the number of service
connections.
C. Future Financial Position
4.07     The Government of East Pakistan has agreed that the Authority
will set and maintain rates to yield net revenues for each fiscal year,
starting with the current year, not less than 1.25 times the Authority's
total debt service requirements. The Authority is also required to set
rates and conduct its operations so as to maintain an operating ratio
(before depreciation) not exceeding 45% for the fiscal years ending June
30, 1969 and 1970 and not exceeding 40% thereafter. These are reasonable
criteria, easy to apply, against wihich the Authority's performance can be
measured readily and which should lead to appropriate rate adjustments
from time to time. The Authorityts Ordinance requires that rates are to be
reviewed annually, which is adequate. As a necessary part of this process
the Authority and its financial consultants are preparing annual revisions
to the financial projections and while these still leave something to be
desired, they are gradually approaching an appropriate degree of realism
based on past performance and more practicable goals.
4.08     The above requirements should help assure that the Authority's
finances improve to a satisfactory position in future, meeting the gen-
eral revenue requirements in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement. J
Although the Authority is expected to meet these criteria, they will
necessitate diligent efforts by the Authority and the Government of East
Pakistan to adhere to the street hydrant, service connection and metering
E The Province shall cause the Authority to set and maintain rates for
water supply and sewerage services which will provide sufficient
revenues: (i) to cover operating expenses, including taxes, if any,
and interest and to provide adequate maintenance and depreciation;
(ii) to meet repayments on long-term indebtedness to the extent that
such repayments exceed the provisions for depreciation; and (iii) to
finance the normal year to year extension of the water supply and
sewerage systems and to provide a reasonable portion of the cost of
future major expansion of such systems.



- 16 -
programs, to employ effective collection procedures and settle arrears
(paragraph 4.04) and to make the best possible use of the consulting advice
and training programs in improving operating efficiency. The Government
also will have to be more effective in supporting the Authority on rate
questions, especially the charges for street hydrant service.
4.09     Annex 7 summarizes the financial projections for the fiscal years
June 30, 1969 through June 30, 1976 and includes the pro forma financial
results for fiscal 1968. The projections are based on the detailed forecasts
by the Dacca Authority and its financial consultants but have been adjusted
by the Association to incorporate the 1968 data, a more cautious prediction
of the rate of making new service connections and an allowance for expendi-
tures on normal extensions and improvements after the project is completed.
4.10     The forecast shows that with the exdsting rate schedule and adequate
payment from street hydrants, the Authority's financial position should be
generally satisfactory until about 1975 when the Authority would begin to
draw upon its accumulated reserves.  Large income increases are predicted
for fiscal 1969, 1970 and 1971 from connection fees and water and sewer
service charges to new customers. The rate of making new connections would
taper off in 1973 causing a decrease in water connection fees and total water
income for that year. In 1976, a modest increase in rates (about 15%) may
be required to maintain debt service coverage at 1.25 or above. This is
not shown in the projections. The return on average net fixed assets in
operation would decline from about 9.8% in 1970 to 5.8% in 1973, as new
facilities are put into service and would remain at about that level until
1976. Failure to arrange for sufficient street hydrant income (paragraph
4.o2) would require a water rate increase in the order of 10% to 15% in
1970 to attain the same financial results.
D. Financing Plan
4.11     The total investment required for the revised project would be
PRs 177.2 million (equivalent to US$37.2 million) including expenditures
already ,ade and interest during construction as summarized in paragraph
2.23.     The expected sources of financing are as follows:
In millions    In millions
of Rupees       of US$       Percent
IDA Credit                           62.87          13.20          35.5
Government Loans                     96.66          20.30          54.5
Funds Generated from
Operations (for interest
during construction)               17.71           3.72          10.0
Total                177.24          37.22         100.0
1/ For the original project, estimated total investment including
interest during construction was PRs 261.3 million (equivalent
to US$54.9 million).



- 17 -
4.12      The foreign exchange cost of the project would be met from the
proceeds of the existing Credit. The required government funds are only
about PRs 1.8 million (2%) less than the estimated requirements for the
original project because tvwo-thirds of the project cost reduction is in
foreign exchange and because the Authority's contribution toward project
cost out of funds generated from operations during the construction
period is estimated to be about PRs 26.7 million lower than originally
projected. It is possible, however, that by the end of the construction
period, the Authority could contribute up to PRs 10.0 miLlion more than
shown above.
4 13      The Central Government transfers the Credit Amount to the
Government of East Pakistan on IDA terms. East Pakistan relends the
funds to the Authority at a 3.5% interest rate. Under this relending
arrangement, the amount withdrawn each year is treated as a separate
loan to be repaid in forty semi-annual equal installments of principal
and interest starting in the sixth fiscal year following the withdrawal.
Government lends its own funds to the Authority on the same tenns and
conditions.



5. CONCLUSIONS
5.01      The Government of East Pakistan is committed to undertaking a
project for improvement and expansion of water supply and sewerage faci-
lities in Dacca in order to overcome a severe shortage of these facilities
and to prevent this limitation from hampering the city's future development.
Such a project has high priority as a direct means of improving the popula-
tion's living standards and productivity.
5.02      The Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project which was approved
by the Association in 1963 as the basis for Credit 41-PAK has proven to
be over-ambitious and has been hampered by a series of problems. New
feasibility studies have identified changes to the project, based on
experience to date, which are distinct improvements, making it less costly
and more suitable for the city's requirements, capabilities and means
during the next several years.
5.03      The project revisions are technically sound and suitably flexible
to reflect experience and changing circumstances as the project goes along.
The cost estimates are reasonable. The Authority's proposed time schedule
for completing the project probably is overly optimistic', but the proposed
new June 30, 1971 closing date has been set to allow for slippage in the
construction program and the Authority might be able to complete withdrawals
from the Credit by that time. In any event, there is insufficient basis at
present for a further postponement of the closing date. Any decision on
whether to postpone should be taken on the basis of the Authority's actual
performance by early 1971 when a firm date could be established.
5.04      The Dacca Authority's management, operations and financial posi-
tions have made progress but are still weak and will require substantial
improvements over the project construction period. Wgith diligent effort,
such as the Authority has exerted to date, these could reach acceptable
levels within a few years. The revised project is intended to assist the
Authority in these respects, through training programs and expert advice
by consultants, based on the Authorityts previous experience. In addition,
to be successful, the Authority also needs more support from the govern-
ment than it has received in the past to resolve the question of adequate
income for street hydrant services and to assure prompt payments for
water and sewer services to government and municipal departments and
agencies.
5.05      Agreement has been reached with the Governments of Pakistan and
East Pakistan and with the Authority on the following proposed changes as
required to proceed with the revised project on a sound basis:
(a) The amount of the Credit, already has been reduced to
US$13.2 million (paragraph 1.02). The closing date would
be extended to June 30, 1971 (paragraph 2.30).
(b)  The Schedule to the Credit Agreement, "Description of
Project" (Annex 1), and the "List of Goods", would be
changed to describe the revised project.



-19-
(c)  Expenditures for goods produced in Pakistan under supply
contracts awarded on the basis of broad international
competition after January 1, 1967 would be eligible for
disbursements from the Credit (paragraph 2.27);
(d) Rates for water and sewier services will be set to yield
net revenues for each year of not less than 1.25 times
the Authority's total debt service requirements (para-
graph 4.07);
(e) The Authority wrill maintain an operating ratio for its
overall operations, before depreciation, not exceeding
45% for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1969 and 1970
and not exceeding 40% thereafter (paragraphs 4.07-4.10);
(f) The Authority will employ effective billing and collection
procedures, in accordance with sound public utility
practices, including the exercise of its right to discon-
nect water service promptly upon the customerst failure
to pay water or sewer service charges.
(g) The Government of East Pakistan will reimburse the
Authority for the cost of operating the 14irpur refugee
colony water systems (paragraph 4.03).
5.o6      The proposed revisions to the Dacca WUater Supply and Sewerage
Project, as described in this report, provide an appropriate basis for
Credit 41-PAK, reduced in amount to US$13.2 million.
September 27, 1968



ANNEX 1
Page 1
DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of Original Project /
The Project consists of the construction of new facilities and
improvement of existing ones for the water supply and sewerage systems of
metropolitan Dacca and of the establishment of an adeqiuate organization
for their efficient operation.
The Project includes the following:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
The Lakhya River will be developed as the newg water source for
metropolitan Dacca with the construction of intake works and a water
treatment plant adequ e for average flows of about 35 million imperial
gallons per day (ivi D)-nd maximum flows of about 50 IGD. A high-lift
pumping station will deliver water from the treatment plant to metropo-
litan Dacca through a transmission main about 5 miles long at a rate of
up to about 70 MGD.  A system of primary supply mains will distribute the
water to the various distribution networks in the city. A new elevated
storage tank of about 3 million imperial gallons capacity will be connected
to the system of primary supply rmains and existing storage tanks will be
modified to provide more effective service.
The Project also includes construction of secondary water dis-
tribution mains, the replacement of inadequate existing mains, the
installation of new water service connections, and a progranm of instal-
ling water meters on both existing and new water service connections.
These elements of the Project will be adequate to provide on-premises
water service for about 420,000 people and about 65% of the water
connections will be metered by the end of the construction period. In
addition, new public sanitary structures will be constructed to provide
adequate service for about 120,000 people.
B. Sewerage System
New works for the sewerage system include major sewers and
intermediate pumping stations, a main pumping station, sewage treatrment
lagoons and an outfall sewer, about 3,000 feet long, to the Burhi Ganga
River. These works will be adequate for the anticipat1ed requirements of
about 400,000 people served by sewer connections and about 200,000 people
using public sanitary structureF.
/ Copy of Schedule, Description of Project, pages 13 and l4, Development
Credit Agreement, Credit Number 41 PAK.
2/ LIgd in new standard abbreviations.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
The Project also includes the construction of smaller lateral
sewers and the repair and improvement of existing sewers as reqaired to
provide adequate on-premises sewer service for about 210,000 people.
C. Organization
The establishment of an efficient organization for the Authority
operating in accordance with sound administrative practices.
The Project is scheduled for completion by July 1969, and the
works included therein will be the first stage of a comprehensive long-
range program to satisfy the water supply and sewerage requirements for
metropolitan Dacca and will be designed and constructed to permit
economical future expansions of the facilities.



DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Comparison of Origirml and Revised Project
Project Element                               OrigLnal Project                           Revised ProJect
Water Project
Surface water treatment plant on       35. IMgd filtration plant (peak           Purchase and reclamation of land
Lakhya River                           capacity 50 IMgd) including river         only; plant construction deferred
intake, pumping stations, and             to future.
Authority headquarters.
Tubewells                              not included.                             15 to 20 new tubewells and im-
provements to worthwhile existing
wells to meet average production
requirements of about 30 INgd and
maximum requirements of about 40 IMgd.
Rehabilitate old surface water         not included.                             Modifications and repairs to increase
treatment plant on Burhi Ganga                                                   average plant capacity to about 5 INgd
River                                                                            (peak capacity about 7 INgd).
Transmission main and primary          About 21 miles of pipeline 18 inch        omitted.
supply mains                           through 66 inch diameter.
Secondary distribution mains           About 157 miles of pipeline, 4 inch       About ll4 miles of pipeline 4 inch
through 12 inch diameter.                 through 18 inch diameter and re-
habilitation of existing mains.
Elevated water storage tanks           A new 3 million gallon high level         Three or four one-million gallon
tank plus modification of some            high level tanks plus modification  (D
existing lcw level tanks.                 of most existing low level tanks.    A m



Project Element                    Original Prolect                       Revised Project
Public facilities                Construction of about 700 public       Reconstruction of public street hydrants
sanitary structures.                   and the installation of new ones for a
total of about 1,500; also construction
of several public sanitary structures on
an experimental basis.
Service connections and meters    About 23,000 new connections and      From 15,000 to 20,000 new connections
the installation of about 37,500      plus installation of 21,000 to 34.,000
meters, Project included materials    meters.   Installation mostly by con-
only; labor was to be provided by     tract but some force account work.
Authority.
Sewer Project
Main pumping station, treatment  Pumping facilities to lift sewage      No change except the outfall will be
works and outfall                to the treatment works, oxidation      an open channel to the river instead
ponds adequate for treating wastes      of a large diameter pipe into the river.
from about 400,000 people and a 9
foot diameter outfall sewer into
the Burhi Ganga River below Dacca.
The outfall would be adequate for
future plant expansions.
Intermediate pumping stations    3 large intermediate pumping           7 small pumping stations permitting
stations on the sewer system.          a reduction in size of main sewers.
Main Sewers                      About 1:9 mdiles off primary sewers    A 2.5 mile long, 54 inch diame-ter
2 feet to 8 feet in diameter           main sewer to the treatment plant.
including a 2< mile main sewer
8 feet in diameter to the                                                         c
treatment plant.
Lateral Sewers                   About 150 miles of smaller sewers,     About 100 miles of snaller sewers,
8 inch through 18 inch diameter,        8 inch through 18 inch diameter.
to which service connections are
made.



Project Element                   Original Project                           Revised Project
Modification and repairs to       Removal of storm water connections      A much more extensive program than
existing system                    and repair of leaks to increase        the original project, permitting
useful capacity and population         part of the above reduction in size
served by existing sewers,             and length of new sewers.  Also
includes rehabilitation of existing
pumping stations.
Sewer Service Connections         About 10,000 new connections.           8,000 to 14,000 new connections.
General
Equipment and tools                Primarily service equipment,           Service equipment, maintenance
maintenance tools and vehicles.        tools, vehicles and office
equipment.
Engineering and supervision       For consulting services only.           Consulting services plus the
Authority's expanded role in
carrying out the project.
Management consultants             Services by consulting firm            Original services plus additional
for about two years.                   services and a special advisor for
about two years more.
Training program                   not included.                          Special courses and on-the-job
training, instructors.
Ancillary buildings                Some shop and garage facilities        Shops and storage facilities at
included at surface water              various points in the city.
treatment plant.
July 15, 1968



DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST OF REVISED PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY - JANUARY 1968
Local    Foreign   Total     Local    Foreign   Total
Principal Elements                             Currency   Exchange  Costs   Currency  Exchange   Costs
(Millions of RupeesT      --T-I-illicns of US$)F
Land                                             1.79         0      1.79      0.38        0      0.38
Tubewells, Water Treatment & Pumping Facilities  1.80       1.73     3.53      0.38     0.36      0.74
Distribution                                    12.90      13.47    26.37      2.71      2.83     5.54
Elevated Storage Tanks                           2.40       4.45     6.85      0.51      0.93     1.4
Connections, Meters and Public Facilities        h.60       3.38     7.98      0.97     0.71      1.68
Ancillary Buildings                              1.00       0.13     1.13      0.21     0.03      0.24
Equipment and Tools                              0.4h       1.h0     1.80      o.o8     0.30      0.38
Prior Expenditures (to July 1, 1966)            11.88       1.59    13.47      2.49     0.33      2.82
Unallocated Contingencies                        1.63       3.15     h.78      0.3b      0.66     1.00
Total Construction Cost                    38.40      29.30    67.70      8.07      6.15    1h.22
Engineering  and Supervision                     6.75       2.69     9.h4      1.h2      0.56     1.98
Management Consulting                            0.h9       0.38     0.87      0.10     0.08      0.18
Training                                         0.30       0.28     0.58      o.o6     o.o6      0.12
Totals                                     45-94      32.65     78.59     9.65      6.85    16.50
J 1 1
July 15, 1968 



DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST OF REVISED PROJECT
SE.ERAGE - JANUAJRY 1965
Local     Foreign    Total     Local     Foreign     Total
Principal Elements                                 Currency  Exchange    Costs    Currency   Exchange   Costs
(Millions of Rupees)       -      iMillions of US$)
Land                                                0.87           0      0.87      0.18          0      0.18
Treatment Plant                                     1.92        0.87      2.79      0.41       0.18      0.59
Sewers                                              23.09      18.14     41.23      4.85       3.81      8.66
Pumping Stations                                    0.58        1.00      1.58      0.12       0.21      0.33
Storm Water By-Pass                                 0.26           0      0.26      0.05          0      0.05
Service Connections and Public Facilities            7.78       2.62     10.40      1.63       0.55      2.18
Ancillary Buildings                                  0.66       0.09      0.75      o.i4       0.02      0.16
Equipment and Tools                                  0.24       1.00      1.24      0.05       0.21      0.26
Prior Expenditures (to July 1, 1966)                 7.53       1.06      8.59      1.58       0.22      1.80
Unallocated Contingencies                            2.83       3.00      5.83      0.59       0.63      1.22
Total Construction Cost                       45.76       27.78     73.54      9.60       5.83     15.43
Engineering and Supervision                         4.44        1.99      6.43      0.94       0.43      1.37
Management Consulting                               0.33        0.26      0.59      0.07       0.05      0.12
Training                                            0.19        0.19      0.38      0.04       0.04      0.08
Totals                                        50.72       30.22     80.94     l0.65       6.35     17.00
July 15, 1968



ANNEX 4
Page 1
DACCA, EAST PAKISTAiA
REVISED WATER SUPPLY AND S!I7ERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Water and Sewer Rates and Charges
(Effective iNovember 1, 1966)
WATER
Connection Fees
Charges
Size of Connection                   Without i2leter  With MvIeter
FRs             Fis
1/2 inch                                 300             425
3/4 inch                                 500             625
1   inch                               1,000           1,200
1-1/2 inch to 2 inch                   3,500           4,000
3 inch to 4 inch                          *            6,300
6 inch                                    *            7,500
Fee for Conversion from Non-.etered to Nietered Connection
1/2 and 3/4 inch                     125 PRs
1 inch                               200 PRs
1-1/2 to 2 inch                      500 PRs
Water Rates
Unmetered Connection                 5% of amnual valuation of
property (a)
ietered Connections:
Domestic                          PRs 2.00 per 1,000 gallons
Commercial and Government         PRs 3.00 per 1,000 gallons
Industrial:
First 150,000 gallons per month PRs 3.00 per 1,000 gallons
Second 150,000   "     t        P FRs 2.50 per 1,000 gallons-
All over 300,000 "     "    "   *PRs 2.00 per 1,000 gallons
Minimum Charge -   PRs 3.00 per month
Other Charges  -   In addition to above there are special charges
for temporary conlections, water used for
construction, etc.
*   Not allowed
(a) Annual valuation, set by municipal government, equals actual annual
rent,or computed as 7-1/2% of construction cost of buildings plus
annual rental value of land, less 2/12ths of the total.



ANNZExh
Page 2
SEIWER
Connection Fees                 Size of Connection      Charges
Type
Domestic                   4 inch diameter          PRs 200
6  "      "I            PRs 250
9  ,,     if            PRs 500
Commercial, Government
and Industrial             4 inch diameter          PRs 300
6         it            PRs 500
9  "      II            PRs 1000
12                       P ?Rs 1500
Sewer Rates
1) For all properties having water and sewer connections,
charges shall be equal to water charges.
2) For properties having sewer connection but no water con-
nection, sewer rate shall be 5zo of annual valuation of
property (a).
3) For properties without sewer connections but located in
certain specified areas, there is a charge of 2% of annual
valuation of the property.
(a) Annual valuation, set by municipal government, equals actual annual
rent or computed as 7-1/2Y6 of construction cost 6f buildings plus
annual rental value of land.



ANNEX 5
DACCA, EiAS PAKISTAN
REVISICNS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENT
(Thousands of Rupees)
Year Ending June 30                                                                                1 9 6 8
Authority's          Adjusted by IDA                  Pro forma Year
Annual Reports              Yission          Actual     Without     With
________ ________ ________ _______9    2      (- R -evenue   f rom
Revenues                                      1966       19671/     1966        196f      Months_/   Street  Hydrants)
Revenue from Billings                        5,328      5,886      3,828_/     4,386.4/   3,o48      4,7535/     5,753
Connection Fees                                561        579        561         579        541        843'5/      843
Other Revenue                                   70         83         70          83        118        18,5/      184
Total                                     5,959      6,548      4,459       5,048      3,707      5,780      6,780
Costs
Operating Costs                              4,318      4,119      4,0183W/    4,4193/    3,021      4,234       h,23h
Other Costs                                    378        371         378        371         95        120         120
Depreciation                                 1,046      1,062      1,046       1,062      1,148      1,502      1,502
Total                                     5,742      5,552      5,442       5,852      L,26b      5,856      5,856
Profit (Loss)                                  217        996      ( 983)      ( 804)     ( 557)     ( 76)        92L
Operating Ratios: Before Depreciation           79%        69%        99%         95%        84%        75%        6),
After Depreciation           96%         85%       122%       116%       115%        101%        86%
1/  Before audit
7/ Based on information from quarterly reports
V Adjusted by correcting misposted accounts
b/ Adjusted by omitting revenue expected from street hydrants
/ Projected according to past trend which shown higher billings for last quarter
NOTE: The Authority introduced a new Chart of Accounts effective from July 1, 1966.
Records before then were incomplete and inconsistent and of little comparative use.
August 23, 1968



ANNEX 6
DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMARY OF BILLINGS, COLLECTIONS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
(Thousands of Rupees)
1/        Adjusted by            9-Mo.       Year Pro
Authority's Anual Reports-.        IDA Mission            Actual         Forma
_       i      1967    %      1.6b  %     1967   -      19682/   %    1968 8/   %
Total Billing after Rebates3/  5,889   100    6,4i65  100     ,389h9/loo  4,9655/ 100    3,589   100    5,596   100
Collected_/                   3,982    68    IJ,020   62    2,482  57   1h,020    81    2,875    80   ii,h77    8o
Accounts Receivable            1,907    32    2,4I5    38    1,907   43     91X5   19      711L   20    1,119    20
Accumulated Accounts
Receivable                   LS,3-3 73      6,7Lg8  10     IJ303   98   5,248   106    5J962_/ _      6,367   11-L
Provisions for Bad Debt          -      -       -      -       -     -      -     -        133   3.7      207   3.7
Balance, Accumulated
Accounts Receivable          4,303    73    6,71j8  lOIh  l4,303   98   5,2li8  106    5,829    -     6,160   110
1/ Before Audit
2/ Based on information from quarterly reports
3/  Including connection fees
Ti/ Adjusted by correcting misposted accounts
37 Adjusted by omitting revenue expected from street hydrants
Z/ Including collection from old accounts receivable
7/ Based on adjusted figure of 1967
E/ xcluding revenue from street hydrants



DACCA. EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAOE PROJECT
HIGH-LIGHTS OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL PfDJECTIONS
(Millions of PRs except as noted)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                         1968        1969        1970        1971        1972        1973        971        195          1976
Water Production IMg per year                    10,000      11,000     11,000      11,000      11,900      12,300      12,500      12,700      13,000
Income Statements:
Revenues
Water                                            3.8         7.1         9.8        13.6        14.6        14.0        14.4        15.1        15.8
Sewer                                            2.0         4.4         8.4         8.9         9.6        10.2        10.4        10.3        10.4
Total                                         5.8        11.5        18.2        22.5        24.2        24.2        24.8        25.4        26.2
Operating Costs
Water                                            2.9         3.1         3.4         4.9         5.4         5.6         5.7         5.9         6.1
Sewer                                            1.5         1.6         1.9         2.9         3.4         3.7         3.9         4-0         4.1
Total                                         4.4          1.7        5.3         7.8         8.8         9.3         9.6         9.9        10.2
Cash Generated from Operations                     1.4         6.8        12.9        114.7       15.4        14.9        15.2        15.5        16.0
Depreciation                                     1.5         1.7         3.4         4.4         4.6         4.6         4.7         4.8         4.9
Operating Income after Depreciation               (0.1)        5.1         9.5        10.3        10.8        10.3        10.5        10.7        11.1
Interest                                           0           0         0.3         0.7         1.5         1.7         2.6         5.1         7.0
Net Income                                         (0.1)       5.1         9.2         9.6         9.3         8.6         7.9         5.6         4.1
Cash Flow:
Sources of Funds
Cash Generated                                   1.4         6.8        12.9        14.7        15.4        14.9        15.2        15.5        16.0
IDA Credit and Government loans                  23.2       55-        52.0        10.2           0           0           0           0           0
Total Sources                                 24.6        61.8       64.9         24.9       15.4        14.9        15.2        15.5        16.0
Application of Funds
Project Investment                              23.2        55.0        52.0        10.2           c           0           0           0           0.
Other Extensions and lnprovements                                        06 1                   3 .0       3.6         5o5        1.9         15.0
Debt Service                                                           o.6         1.4         3.0         3.6         5.5        10.9        15.0
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital          (1.8)        1.4         3.7        (0.6)        1.3         0.1           0         0.1        (0.)
Total Application                             21.4        56.4        56.3        -1.0       12.3        11.7        13.5        19.0        22.9
Balance of Funds                                   3.2         5.4         8.6        13.9         3.1         3.2         1.7        (3.5)       (6.9)
Funds Accumulated                                  6.8        12.2        20.8        34.7        37.8        41.0        42.7        39.2        32.3
Ratios:
Operating Ratio before Depreciation                 75%         41%         29%         35%         36%         38%         39%         39%         39%
Operating Ratio after Depreciation                 101%         56%         48%         54%         55%         57%         58%         58%         58%
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets                 0         9.2%        9.8%        6.8%        6.2%        5.8%        5.8%        5.8%        5.9%
Debt Service Coverage                              -           -        21.5        10.5         5.1         4.1         2.8         1.4         1.1
1/ Funds accumulated as of fiscal 1968 are primarily from Government loans which, along with surpluses 1969 - 1971, may
be applied to project in place of additional loan funds.
August 23, 1968



ANNEX 8
Page 1
DACCA, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
as adjusted by IDA Appraisal Team
1.  New Water Service Connections
New Connections         Total New
Fiscal Year       Added During   Total     and Old at
ending June 30       Year        Added     Year End
1968            3,100        3,100       20,000
1969            4,000         7,100      24,000
1970            4,500       11,600       28,500
1971            4,500       16,100       33,000
1972            4,000        20,100      37,000
1973            3,000       23,100       40,000
1974            2,200       25,300       42,200
1975            2,300        27,600      44,5oo
1976            2,400        30,000      46,900
The above is somewhat less than the Author'ity's program which
assumes 6,500 new connections in fiscal 1969, 8,500 in 1970 and 4,580 in
1971. Thereafter, our assumptions are higher since the Authority assumed
almost a halt to the connection program.
2. New Sewer Service Connections
Total New
Fiscal Year        To bo Iddod     Total     and Old at
ending June 30     Darin- Year     Added     Year End
1968               500          500        8,000
1969             3,000        3,500       11,000
1970             4,000        7,500       15,000
1971             4,500       12,000       19,500
1972             4,000       16,000       23,500
1973             3,000       19,000       26,500
1974             2,200       21,200       28,700
1975             2,300       23,500       31,000
1976             2,400       25,900       33,400
These also are lower than the Authority's program.
3. Revenue from Connection Fees
Based on Authority's rate schedule using assumed breakdown
between various types of new connections as projected by the Authority.
Minimum connection fees are PRs 425 for water and PRs 200 for sewer.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4. Water Revenue
a)  From billings:  Actual pro forma 1968 revenues used as
starting point, assuming these included only half of
potential revenue from the connections added in 1968.
b) All new connections assumed to be metered with average
use at 450 gallons per day per connection.
c) Average revenue from new connections assumed at PRs 2.0
per 1,000 gallons.
d) Assume three eighths of potential revenue per connection
earned in year connection made.
e) Payments to the Authority for street hydrant service
assumed at minimum of PRs 1.0 million per year starting
fiscal 1969. This is more than proposed by government
in letter July 13, 1968 but is minimum hat should be
collected for this service.
5. Sewer Revenue
a) Same procedure as for water.
b) Revenue from new connections assumed equal to revenue
from average water connection.   This is consistent with
rate schedule.
6. Water Waste and Losses (Non-Revenue Water)
Assumed percentage of total water produced is lost or wasted
per fiscal year as follows:
1968  -  58%         1972   -  53%
1969  -  55%         1973   -5%
1970  - 55%          1974   - 48%
1971  -  53',0       1975   -46
1976  - 44%
7.  Operating Costs
a)  Power and Chemical costs based on 1968 pro forma
accounts, adjusted proportionate to flows with 2%
increase in unit costs per year.
b) Maintenance; 1% of value of fixed assets in service
at beginning of year.
c) Salaries and Administration: Use figures estimated by
Authority. These are high and could be reduced starting
in 1971.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8. Depreciation
Straight line depreciation at 2.5% of average value of fixed
assets in operation each year.
9. Bad Debts: Included as part of operating costs.
10.  Normal Extensions and Improvements:  Assume PRs 8.0 million per
year starting in 1972.
11. Interest, Debt Service
Debt service is on general loans and project funds from the
government (including the IDA Credit) at an interest rate of 3.5% per
year. According to the lending arrangement, the amount withdrawn each
year is treated as a separate loan to be repaid in forty semi-annual
installments of principal and interest starting in the sixth fiscal
year after the withdrawal. Also included is debt service on loans
inherited from the municipality and government for which a period of
grace on interest and principal was given through 1971.



MI RIPU R         II
oenxffl rus MOH       R
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
lw=_=e~l r-st A ,,
KERANIGANJ  <\\\%e  \@            A ~~~~~~PROPOSE D WELLS (ADDITIONAL SITES\ 
EAST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ PAKSTA                                 TO BE SELECTED)
EAST PAK]STAN        \<X\ \, .                    O~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROPOSE D ELEVATED STORAGE TANKSETD
D A C C A                             \\         s                (SITE FOR FOURTH TANK TO BE SELETO\
PROPOSED  WAT E R  P R O J E C R                    <       <              PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION MAINS
__PROPOSED        AE       R   JC
NOTE: ABOUT 300,000 FEET OF PROPOSED SECONDARY             >    \ 
DISTR IBUTION MAINS NOT SHOWN.                            s
O- nooo   loooEETfooo   20300 frrl  \9\      Xt 
t-__F {  ---  I   m                         \    \                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/



MI RIP UR                2I
1/mD ot cc \ AAGOu\ )\R1 
7provemetUst Ary   N.=S 
~=~~raMO   Om  R~~~' 
-    IN~~~~~~~~OREMI
U-NIVKEANIANONDAl<\\ 
DOA  C  C  A  A \ \ \  X                     \
PROPOSED  SEWERAGE PROJERA IGANJ,N
PROPOSED SEWERAGE PROJTEEPINCPACSEERTSHWN
0  PROPOSED PUMP STATION         \  \o        PAGLA SEWAGE OXIDATION PONDS
A EXISTING PUMP STATION           UO S ONE
S PUMP STATION UNDER CONSTRUCTION  NO  HW         H
PROPOSED SEWER                     ' \   & 
__ _FUTURE INTERCEPTOR                    X  ,  i
i  i -i J   -i-  I   1 i = t  NOTE. PRI1ICIPAL SEWERS SMOWN.   \ @ ,
ABO0UT 360,000 FEET OF SECONDAR   \l t
SE WERS NOT SHOWN.   \ s 8



