Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13681
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1265-SL)
NOVEMBER 4, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At project appraisal:   1 US dollar - 1.18 Leones
February 1994:       1 US dollar - 572 Leones
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
IDA   -       International Development Association
NPA   -       National Power Authority
SLEC  -       Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
MEP  -        Ministry of Energy and Power
MOP  -        Memorandum of the President
MW    -       Megawatt
SDR   -       Special Drawing Right
OPEC  -       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
EIB    -      European Investment Bank
EC    -       European Commission
GTZ   -       German Technical Cooperation Agency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 4, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone
Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1265-SL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone - Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1265-SL) prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Western Central Africa Department. The Borrower contributed Part II of the PCR. The views of the
OPEC Fund cofinancier, are also incorporated in the PCR.
The objectives of the project were to rehabilitate the power generation and distribution
facilities of the country; support institutional improvement in the power sector; and to complete the
preparation of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric project, including an economic evaluation.
The first two objectives were not met. Available generating and transmission capacity
dropped 25 percent below that existing 10 years ago. Efficacy of training of management staff and
technical assistance by expatriates is minimal. Transfer of power sector functions from Sierra Leone
Electricity Corporation (SLEC), to the newly created National Power Authority (NPA), did not make any
difference in the management and operation of the power sector--still subject to heavy interference by the
Government. The Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project was found uneconomical in view of falling oil prices
even after having been redesigned and downsized, and IDA stopped supporting it. The US$11 million
project spawned over more than a decade instead of two years, as planned. Because of a suspension of
disbursement in all IDA Credits to Sierra Leone, the project was inactive during about six years.
While the local currency devaluation did not help, the failure of this project resides in
the lack of common objectives between the Borrower and IDA and in its poor design. The Borrower was
mostly interested in financial support for the Bumbuna project. Project design sought improvements in
NPA performance only through tariff increases. Further, IDA did not have any influence on the US$2.7
million technical assistance and institutional development component which was financed by the OPEC
Fund.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and its institutional development impact
as negligible. The sustainability of the meager project results is rated as uncertain because it depends on
the outcome of the ongoing Power Sector Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2356-SL) approved in 1992.
The PCR contains a fair account of the project implementation and results. No audit is
planned.
Attachment                                       c3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1265-SL
Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ...... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .......................................
ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE.                                                 1
PROJECT IDENTITY   ..
A. Background .1
B. Project Objectives and Description ...........................   2
C. Project Preparation, Design and Organization ....................  3
D. Implementation and Results ...............................   4
E.  Sustainability of Project Benefits ............................   8
F.  Consultant Performance  .................................   8
G. Project Documentation and Data ............................   9
H. Project Relations ......................................   9
I.  Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned  ....................  9
J.  Performance of IDA and Lessons Learned .....................   10
PART II:  REPORT FROM  THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE BORROWER  ... ....    12
A. Introductions .12
B. Historical Background  ....       ........  .....................  12
C. NPA's Performance ..................................    13
D. Disbursement Procedures  ................................  15
E. Project Benefits ................................... 15
F.    Project Accounting    ....................................   16
G. Remaining Activities to be fulfilled by NPA ..................... 16
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................   17
Tables
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits .17
Table 2: Project Timetable .18
Table 3:    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .18
Table 4:  Project Implementation Indicators .19
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing .21
Table 6: Status of Project Covenants .22
Table 7: Project Results .30
Table 8: Use of IDA Staff Resources .31
Annexes
Annex 1:   Basic Economic Indicators for Sierra Leone                                         35
Annex 2:   Profile of the Public Electricity System in Sierra Leone                           36
Annex 3:   Briefing Note on the Development of the Status of the Bumbuna Hydropower Pr . 37
Annex 4:   Comments from the Cofinancier (The OPEC Fund)                                      39






- i -
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1265-SL)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report for Sierra Leone: Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project. IDA approved a Credit of SDR 4.5 million for this project on June
17, 1982. The original closing date of the Credit was December 31, 1984 but it did not close
until September 30, 1993 for three reasons: (a) delays in the completion of some of the project's
components; (b) suspension of disbursements during 1985-86 for non-compliance with Project
covenants; (c) suspension of disbursement during 1987-1992 due to arrears in service payments;
and (c) extension of the Credit during 1992-93 to allow the National Power Authority to use the
remaining funds for spare parts and technical assistance in support of the Emergency
Rehabilitation Program for the power system. The Project closed on September 30, 1993 and
was fully disbursed by January 31, 1994.
2.    The Industry and Energy Division of the Western Africa Department prepared Parts I and
III of this PCR. The Borrower prepared Part II after reviewing Parts I and III.
3.    The preparation of Parts I and III of the PCR is based on the Project's Memorandum of
the President (MOP); legal agreements; the Project's files; and interviews with IDA staff involved
with the Project.






-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1265-SL
EhELUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project was an interim project to
prepare the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project and meet the urgent rehabilitation and institutional
strengthening needs of Sierra Leone's power sector. However, implementation of the project
prolonged and spanned more than a decade and actual project results diverged from those which
IDA and the Borrower had anticipated when the project was prepared. The main problem in the
power sector at the time of project appraisal was the inability of the Sierra Leone Electricity
Corporation (SLEC) to operate efficiently as a financially viable entity capable of supplying
reliable electricity service (Part I, para. 2). There were several reasons for this. The first was
that its costs were high mainly resulting from high fuel costs because SLEC was obligated to buy
fuel from the national refinery at prices higher than the market price. The second was that the
company did not generate sufficient revenues due to high system losses (about 30 percent of
generation), inadequate billing practices and the failure of the Government to allow SLEC the
tariff increases it needed to be financially viable. Third, the Sierra Leone's poor economic
performance, due to declines in mining exports, decreased the availability of foreign exchange for
the power sector, limiting funds available for SLEC to buy spare parts for power system facilities.
There were high expectations that the proposed Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project would both lower
the power system's operating costs and alleviate the financial burden of the Sierra Leone's high
oil import bill, which amounted to about 30 percent of the country's export earnings.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The objectives of the Project were to: help rehabilitate the existing thermal generation
and distribution system facilities; support institutional improvements in the power sector; and
complete the preparation work of the Bumbuna project, including an economic evaluation. Part I,
para 4 describes the Project's various components to meet these objectives. The Project's
estimated total cost was US$11 million, of which US$10 million was in foreign currency. IDA
and the OPEC Fund were to provide parallel financing for the foreign costs of the Project. There
were two important conditions of the Project's effectiveness, crucial to improving the efficiency of
power system operations. The first was the transfer of SLEC's responsibilities to the National
Power Authority (NPA), a new entity, which unlike SLEC, did not come under the direct control
of the Ministry of Energy and Power (MEP). The second was satisfactory evidence that the
national refinery was billing NPA at the market price for fuel and not the higher price the
company had been paying.
Project Implementation Experience
3.     Considering that the Project spanned more than a decade, instead of two years as
originally planned, the PCR's review of implementation experience first takes a look at the
Project according to three successive time periods (Part I, paras 9-1 1) , reflecting critical shifts in
the Project's orientation, and then it reviews the implementation of individual project components.
Finally, the section explains why actual project results diverged from those which IDA and the
Borrower had anticipated at appraisal. In the first period of the Project (1982-87), IDA decided
not to finance the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project and there was a shift in the emphasis of the
Project to power system rehabilitation needs. In the second period (1987-92), there was a general



- iii -
suspension of disbursements on all IDA projects because of Sierra Leone's arrears in its service
payments on outstanding financial obligations to the World Bank Group. In the third period
(1992-93), IDA and the Borrower resumed dialogue on the rehabilitation needs of the power
sector. IDA allocated the remaining Credit funds for spare parts and technical assistance to
support an emergency rehabilitation program for the power system and prepared a comprehensive
power sector rehabilitation project to follow the Project which closed in September 1993. Paras
12-14 in Part I discuss the implementation of individual project components and paras 15-19
focus on the divergence between actual and expected project achievements.
Sustainability of Project Benefits
4.     Because of IDA's suspension of disbursements during the Project's second period, as well
as the collapse of the utility in 1991, this section concentrates on the sustainability of the benefits
of the Project in its third phase, when IDA and the Borrower reoriented the emphasis of the
Project toward rehabilitation. (See Part 1, para 20). In the third phase of the Project, during
1992-93, the remaining US$1.3 million were utilized for technical assistance and spare parts
under the emergency rehabilitation program, which served as a prelude to rebuilding the power
company and an important first step in creating a new commitment of the Government and NPA
to making NPA a financially viable entity. The benefits of these investments are expected to be
sustained because: (a) the rehabilitation project is providing for a comprehensive revamping of the
entire power system and represents a fairly large investment for the Government, US$52.8
million, providing the Government with an added incentive to maintain its commitment to
realizing the potential benefits of the project; and (b) the Government's agreement to hire
qualified specialists under a performance-based management contract to manage NPA for a three-
year period.
Lessons for the Borrower
5.     The major lesson for the Government and NPA is the importance of making a
commitment to the achievement of sector objectives and taking the responsibility that comes with
the ownership of a project and the related investment. They should fulfill project objectives and
covenants not only to avoid IDA's suspension of disbursements but, more importantly, to assure
the financial viability and operational integrity of the power utility and protect their investment.
If the Government and NPA believed that the Project had been overtaken by events, making the
achievement of the original objectives and compliance with covenants no longer possible, they
should have looked into alternative actions and proposed them to IDA. For example, in
opposition to major increases in tariffs which already were very high, senior government officials
rightly called attention about the need to concentrate more on reducing the utility's costs,
suggesting a detailed look at the power system's operational efficiency, instead of narrowly
focussing mainly on tariff increases. The utility should have pursued this response actively and
requested IDA assistance.
Lessons for IDA
6.    IDA learned several lessons from this project. The first is the need to fully incorporate
the experience from past projects into the design of future project components. Given the
Government's past pattern of not refraining from interference in the operations of the power
company, the Project at the very least should have included a management component with an
explicit definition of functions and achievement targets. Also, given the importance of



- iv -
management technical assistance, IDA should have financed it. Second, it is especially important
to make sure conditions are reasonable and attainable given the project's scale and past
performance of the Borrower. The financial targets for the Project were unrealistic and without a
promise of financing the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, IDA did not have sufficient leverage
with a Credit of only SDR 4.5 millon. The third lesson is to take a comprehensive approach to
improving the financial condition of a utility including a wide range of options for increasing
revenues and reducing costs, instead of focussing narrowly on conditionality for increasing tariffs,
especially in poor countries where tariffs already are prohibitively high. The Loan Committee's
review of the Project raised some of these concerns but IDA staff did not sufficiently account for
this concern in the Project's design, leaving too many loose ends and transferring considerable ad
hoc responsibility to the consultants providing management assistance.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1265-SL
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name          Power Engineering and Technical Assistance
Credit No.             1265-SL
RVP Unit              Western Africa
Country               Sierra Leone
Sector                Energy
Subsector             Electric Power
A. Background 1/
1.1    When IDA appraised the Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (the Project) in
1981, the Government had set five major objectives for the power sector. The first was the
development of the country's renewable energy potential, mainly hydropower. The second was to
consolidate the institutional structure for power system planning and operation. The third was to
adopt tariffs to permit recovery of the power utility's costs and promote efficient allocation of
economic resources. The fourth was the systematic training of manpower to develop national
capability in power system management and operation. The fifth objective was, over the long
term, to promote power-sharing with neighboring countries through the interconnection of power
systems. IDA had supported these objectives through three previous electric power projects (See
Part III, Table 1). The major impediment to achieving the objectives was the lack of Government
commitment to allow the electric power company the autonomy necessary to manage its
operations efficiently. The Sierra Leone Electricity Company (SLEC) was under the control of
the Ministry of Energy and Power (MEP) although the SLEC had begun operation, in 1969, as
autonomous company.2/ The SLEC operated three diesel-electric power stations with an
installed capacity of 60 MW. The Western Area of the System, the area around Freetown, the
capital, had an installed capacity of 44 MW, and was serving 20,000 customers.3/ There also
was a considerable amount of "captive generating capacity" outside the SLEC system -- diesel
generators serving the mining industry, with an installed capacity of 38 MW. Annex 1 provides a
profile of the power system at the time of project appraisal.
1.2    Although MEP had contracted the operation of the utility to an expatriate consulting firm,
the expatriate General Manager of the utility did not have much operational authority except for
I/     Unless otherwise stated, the information in this section refers to the time of project appraisal, in 1981.
2/     After a 1974 Government investigation of SLEC for corrupt practices, the Government dismissed
the company's entire top level of management and passed legislation abolishing SLEC's Board. A
newly-formed Ministry of Energy and Power took control of SLEC and entered into a five-year
contract with a consulting firm to provide five senior staff to manage the company.
Total power production in the Westem System was 131 GWh of which industry accounted for 50
percent and residential consumers 21 pcrcent.



-2-
minor routine matters. MEP consistently refused to allow SLEC the tariff increases it needed to
be financially viable, and by the time of the Project's appraisal, the power system was near total
physical and financial collapse. The utility was continuously short of cash. The Government was
providing SLEC with only enough funds to purchase a week's worth of fuel at a time. Also
SLEC's poor credit record prevented the utility from receiving the security and cost advantages of
a long-term fuel supply agreement. The SLEC had shut down generating facilities on several
occasions due to the lack of fuel and/or problems resulting from inadequate maintenance. Since
the largest cost to the utility was imported fuel, the Government was evaluating possibilities for
harnessing the country's large hydropower resources (1,150 MW). There was an urgency
surrounding the need to develop these resources, especially in the context of the country's difficult
economic situation. Declining export performance combined with the high cost of oil, which
absorbed about 30 percent of the country's export earnings, had led to increasing balance-of-
payments deficit. The availability of foreign exchange for fuel and spare parts was dwindling.
Annex 2 provides a selection of salient country and economic indicators.
1.3    Prior to the Project, IDA had financed the Third Power Project, which had two
objectives: to prepare the Bumbuna Hydropower Project as a first step in a long-term plan to
develop the country's hydropower resources; and (b) to maintain and improve the reliability of the
existing thermal system until the implementation of the Bumbuna project. The components of the
Third Power Project covered:  completion of the feasibility study and detailed engineering work
for the Bumbuna Project; rehabilitation of selected parts of the generation and distribution
network; and provision of processing equipment to improve the performance of the billing
system.4/ Overall, this project did not achieve these objectives because of the company's lack
of foreign exchange for essential spare parts to maintain the system and poor management of
SLEC under the MEP.5/ The unfulfilled objectives of the Third Power Project essentially
became the objectives of the Project.
B. Project Objectives and Description
1.4    The objectives of the Project were: to help rehabilitate the existing thermal generation
and distribution system facilities; support institutional improvements in the power sector, and
complete the preparation of the Bumbuna project.6/ The Project's Credit Agreement outlines the
components to achieve these objectives as follows:
(a)  Preparation of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, consisting of: (i) completion of
detailed engineering, preparation of bid documents and assistance in evaluation of
bids for the main civil works and engineering contracts for the Bumbuna
Hydroelectric Project; (ii) establishment of an Engineering Review Board consisting
of up to four internationally-recognized hydroelectric experts to advise the Borrower
on the technical aspects of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project; and a study to assess
_/     The financing of data processing was reallocated to financial technical assistance to strengthen the
accounting department.
5/     Project Completion Report: Third Power Project (Credit 734-SL), No. M83-592, June 14, 1983.
6/     Report and Recommendation of the President of the Intemational Developmcnt Association to the Executive
Directors on a Proposed Credit to the Republic of Sierra Leone for a Power Sector Engineering and
Technical Assistance Credit. Report No. p-3341-SL, May 27, 1982.



-3-
the economic impact of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project on the Freetown Oil
Refinery.
(b) Rehabilitation of existing electric power facilities, comprising: (i) maintenance of
NPA's existing diesel generators and distribution systems involving the provision of
essential spare parts and materials; and (ii) maximization of power output at the
Kingtom Station through improvements to its cooling water system.
(c) Institutional changes and training, encompassing: (i) a program of technical
assistance to strengthen the management of NPA through an arrangement with an
operating utility for the provision of a chief executive, an assistant general manager
(finance), an assistant general manager (engineering) with the responsibility for
construction of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, a financial controller and a chief
accountant; and (ii) overseas training for up to twelve selected NPA executives.
1.5    The total cost of the Project was estimated at US$11 million, of which US$10 million was
in foreign currency. IDA and the OPEC Fund were to provide parallel financing for the foreign
costs of the Project. IDA's Credit of SDR 4.5 million was to finance all foreign exchange
expenditures for the preparation of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project; the Engineering Review
Board; the study on the impact of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project on the Freetown Oil
Refinery; and improvements to the Kingtom power station's water cooling system. The US$5
million loan from the OPEC Fund was to finance all foreign exchange expenditures for
rehabilitating generation and distribution facilities, technical assistance and training. The
Government was to pay for the local cost of US$1 million to cover residential accommodations
for technical assistance personnel, office accommodation, utilities, vehicle operating expenses,
subsistence expenses, and support staff.
C. Project Preparation, Design and Organization
1.6    The basic design of the project resulted from the fact that the Third Power Project had not
achieved most of its objectives and IDA was not ready to proceed with the financing of the
Bumbuna Project, which was under preparation prior to the appraisal of the Project. Based on the
feasibility work under the Third Power Project, IDA had prepared a project brief for the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, which was to provide hydropower to replace most of the existing
thermal generation facilities. It was to consist of civil works for the dam, a power station with an
installed capacity of 67 MW and transmission lines to Freetown, provincial centers and selected
mining centers. The proposed Bumbuna project also was to provide components for rehabilitation
work on the existing thermal system; institutional strengthening; and improvements in operational
and financial management of the utility. The estimated cost of the Bumbuna Project was US$350
million of which the civil works, transmission lines and physical contingencies were
US$211 million plus price contingencies of US$112.5 million.7/ The remaining funds were to
cover : technical assistance, institutional support, and system expansion. But before proceeding
with this project IDA and the Government saw the need for an interim engineering and technical
assistance project, mainly for three reasons. First, there was an immediate need to pay the
consultants for past work since they had stopped their work under the Third Power Project.
Second, the Third Power Project had failed to bring about needed improvements in operational
efficiency and finances. Third, the Government was planning to create a new power authority
7/    Bumbuna Project Brief of November 14, 1981.



-4-
which would require some assistance in getting started. A consulting engineering firm had done
a study to design the most appropriate institutional authority to implement Bumbuna and this
firm's preliminary recommendation was that the new authority assume responsibility for the
power sector as a whole and that the NPA assume the responsibilities of SLEC a year after the
creation of NPA. However, because of SLEC's serious shortcomings, both the Government of
Sierra Leone and IDA agreed that the merger should take place at the time of NPA's creation.
1.7    The main lesson that IDA applied from its experience with past projects in the design of
the Project was to require action on meeting key project conditions before the Credit actually
became effective. Therefore, the design of the Project required, as conditions of effectiveness,
satisfactory evidence that: (a) NPA had fully assumed the obligations of the SLEC, according to
the National Power Authority Act of 1982; and (b) the refinery had adjusted the price of fuel
supplied to NPA to reflect the market price for similar fuel. However, IDA did not insist on the
implementation of a tariff increase prior to effectiveness. The reason for this was that tariffs
already were high in absolute terms and that even at existing tariff levels, SLEC was experiencing
collection difficulties. However, IDA reasoned that if SLEC were paying the market price of
fuel, which was lower than the price the Freetown Oil Refinery was charging, SLEC's costs
would decline and its financial condition would improve.
D. Project Implementation and Results
Overview
1.8    Considering that the Project spanned more than a decade, instead of two years as
originally planned, it is helpful first to take a look at the project's implementation according to
successive time periods, reflecting critical shifts in the Project's orientation, and then review the
implementation of individual project components. The section concludes by focussing on why
actual project results diverged from those which IDA and the Borrower had anticipated at
appraisal.
Implementation review by project period
1.9    Period 1 (1982-87): Shift in focus from preparing a follow-up Bumbuna project to
preparing a system rehabilitation project. During the early part of this period, the main focus of
the Project was on the preparation of the proposed Bumbuna project. Despite several attempts to
scale down the project in order to make it economically viable and more affordable for Sierra
Leone, IDA decided to defer investment in this project and recommended that the Government not
make any additional investment in that project, until the country's economic and financial
situation improved. Subsequently, the focus of IDA assistance shifted toward the rehabilitation of
the deteriorating power system. IDA and the Government then agreed to amendments of the
Credit Agreement (in 1985 and 1987) which reflected this new focus; the amendments transferred
funds from other component categories to improvements in the Kingtom power station and spare
parts. In addition, IDA appraised a full-scale Power Sector Rehabilitation Project and issued a
Green Cover Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) in March 1985. Between April 1985 and December
1986, IDA stopped disbursements on the Project 8/, because the Government and NPA
repeatedly failed to meet conditions that would allow NPA to comply with the Project's rate-of-
8/     Exempt from the suspension, however, were funds allocated to the improvements to the Kingtom Power
Station's cooling water system since this was a critical component to the system's rehabilitation.



-5-
return covenant ( Part III, Table 6). Disbursements resumed only after the Government allowed
NPA to increase tariffs by 400 percent. Also during this period, the Project's cofinancing
agency, the OPEC Fund, stopped disbursements on its loan due to the Government's arrears in
payments. This suspension reduced the availability of funds for provision of spare parts.
1.10   Period 2 (1987-92). General Suspension of disbursements. This period denotes IDA's
general suspension of disbursements to Sierra Leone from May 1987 to April 1992 due to the
Government's arrears in its service payments to IDA on outstanding Credits. However, during
this period, NPA received donor assistance for the rehabilitation of generation facilities which had
deteriorated severely. Also, during this period, the preparation of the full-scale rehabilitation
project came to a halt.
1.11   Period 3 (1992-93). Allocation of Credit proceeds to an emergency rehabilitation
program and preparation of a comprehensive rehabilitation project. After lifting the general
suspension of disbursements in April 1992, IDA extended the Project's closing date to September
30, 1993 and agreed with NPA and donors to utilize the remaining US$1.3 million of the IDA
Credit for the Project to finance spare parts and technical assistance under an emergency
rehabilitation program, a joint effort of the EIB, EC and GTZ. The Credit closed on September
30, 1993. IDA disbursed all of the original Credit of SDR 4.5 million, which because of the
change in the exchange rate amounted to US$6.1 million instead of US$5.0 million estimated at
the appraisal. However, about US$1 million of the OPEC Fund loan was not available due to the
suspension of disbursements by the OPEC Fund. Total foreign cost of the project amounted to
US$10.1 million which is the same as the appraisal estimate. IDA requested the Borrower to
provide information on the locally-financed component of the project and was informed that the
information is not available (see Part II, para 2.27). Table 5 in Part III gives a breakdown of the
costs by each of the Project's components.
Review of Individual Components2/
1.12   Part A: Preparation of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project. There were three key dates
that served as indicators of the preparation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project. The first was
the appointment of an Engineering Review Board by September 30, 1982. NPA did not appoint
this Board on the specified date because IDA had deferred its financial participation in the
proposed Bumbuna project. The second indicator was the completion of a study on the expected
impact of the Bumbuna project on the Freetown Oil Refinery. NPA did not do the study on the
impact of the proposed Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project on the Freetown Oil Refinery, by the end
of December 1982, as the Project Agreement stipulates. They did not see the need for such a
study since IDA staff had done a review of the refinery sector, although this review did not
include an impact study. The third indicator was the completion of the engineering work by the
consultants and the economic and financial evaluations by the Government and IDA. The work
of the engineering consultants took place during 1982-84. These consultants made two sets of
modifications of the original design. The first one, completed in October 1982, responded to the
drop in oil prices that had taken place since the 1980 feasibility study. The second modification,
which took place in July 1984, took account of the need to make the project more affordable for
the country while maintaining the expected economic benefits. IDA eventually became concerned
that even the reduced version of the Bumbuna project would pose too great a financial burden on
the country's economy and recommended that the Government defer any further investment in the
2/     This section reviews project components as they appear in the Credit Agreement.



-6-
project until the economy improved.IQ/ The tender documents for the Bumbuna Project were
prepared by the engineering consultants in July 1984, and they reflect both the base case and the
reduced version of Bumbuna's Phase I. A letter of March 14, 1985 from the engineering
consultants outlines the various engineering estimates and essentially signifies the end of IDA's
contribution to the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project.  Annex 3 summarizes the results of the
engineering work and the economic analysis.
1.13   Part B: Rehabilitation of existing facilities. The project documents provided no explicit
implementation indicators for this component. There were two parts to the rehabilitation work
under the Project. One part was to maximize output of the Kingtom power station by providing
equipment to improve the water cooling system of the station, which IDA was to finance. The
second part was the provision of essential spare parts and materials for diesel generators and the
distribution system, which the OPEC Fund was to finance. NPA experienced some delays in
procuring equipment for improvements to the cooling system, mainly due to delays in the
preparation of tender documents and the reluctance of some suppliers to contract with NPA given
its lack of creditworthiness. Although the improvements to the cooling water system took place
the output of the Kingtom station deteriorated due to NPA's lack of funds for fuel and inadequate
maintenance. The OPEC Fund did not provide all of the funding anticipated for spare parts
because of its suspension of disbursements. As noted earlier, IDA amended the Credit
Agreement to make more funds available for spare parts to help meet greater rehabilitation needs
than initially envisaged, especially given the delay in the preparation of a full rehabilitation
project. Also, after resuming disbursements in 1992, IDA provided spare parts for the emergency
rehabilitation of diesel generators.
1.14   Part C. Institutional Changes and Training. Project supervision reports indicated that
NPA was reluctant to allow expatriates to assume managerial or counterpart positions in the
utility. They used the consultants mainly as advisors instead. IDA recommended that in order to
use the consultants effectively, NPA clearly define the functions within NPA's organization so
that it would be possible for IDA staff to make an appropriate assessment of the consultant's
participation in the utility's operations. There is no documentation in the Project's files
indicating that NPA followed this advice. The Project provided for the training of twelve NPA
staff in executive positions through several weeks of hands-on experience in a power utility.  In
1984, NPA submitted to IDA the names and positions of 13 candidates for training at various
utilities or engineering firms.ll/ These officials included the General Manager; three Chief
Engineers; an Acting Financial Controller; a Commercial Engineer; two accountants; the
Administrative Officer; the Training and Recruitment Manager; two senior engineers and a
project engineer. The training program covered a broad spectrum of utility operations, including:
thermal plant operation and maintenance; the management of spare parts, hydropower operations;
budgetary control, etc. Project files indicate nine senior officials actually completed training but
do not provide a complete list of staff receiving training. A major problem with the
implementation of the training component was that NPA often did not submit the appropriate
documentation for withdrawing Project funds for training. IDA noted the need for a complete
accounting of the utilization of funds since project records of the borrower were inadequate and
10/    Telex of June 14, 1984 from IDA to the Minister of Energy and Power.
II/    Letter of August 31, 1984 from NPA to IDA.



-7-
IDA was compelled to authorize withdrawals on an exceptional basis without documentation
12/ However, there is no evidence in the files that this review of accounting ever took place.
Divergence between expected and actual results of the Project
1.15   Project documentation suggests that IDA and the Borrower expected four major results
from the Project. The first was the completion of the preparation for the proposed Bumbuna
Project with the expectation of IDA financing if it were economically justified. As indicated
earlier, the Project completed the expected preparatory work for the.proposed Bumbuna project.
The consultant had prepared the feasibility study and initial engineering work during 1980-81,
under the Third Power Project, when the international price of oil had reached its peak.
However, by the time the Credit for the Project had become effective (December 1982), the oil
price already had begun its downward trend.l3/ The proposed Bumbuna Project's economic
analysis had shown the expected rate-of-return was very, sensitive to oil price changes. IDA and
the engineering consultants then reduced the proposed Bumbuna Project's size, to arrive at an
economically viable solution. But the economy took a serious downturn and IDA was very
cautious about encouraging Sierra Leone to take on any large new investments. Annex 3 provides
a summary of the analyses and design modifications of the engineering consultants to account for
these factors.
1.16   The second expected result was an improvement in the quality of the power system's
service as a result of the spare parts which the Project's rehabilitation component provided.
Although the Project ultimately diverted most of its funds to rehabilitation work, service did not
improve but, in fact, declined dramatically. For example, firm generating capacity in the
Western area dropped from 31 MW in 1981 to only 6.5 MW in 1991. This decline resulted
from the fact that (a) Sierra Leone lacked sufficient foreign exchange for proper maintenance of
its system for more than a decade; (b) despite the decline in the international price of oil its cost
to NPA rose steeply due to a major currency devaluation;14/ and (c) improvements in the
management and financial performance of NPA did not materialize.
1.17   Third, the project expected a considerable amount of institutional strengthening from the
presence of expatriate management consultants over a two-year period and overseas training of
staff. There are no indications in the files that the project had any major improvement in
management or that the training staff received had any improvement in their performance.
1.18   Fourth, the project had major expectations for financial improvement of the utility by
meeting fairly high rate-of-return targets on revalued assets, which were supported by several
financial covenants. However, the Government and the Borrower failed to comply sufficiently
with related project covenants and as a result NPA did not meet most of the targets originally
identified.
12/    Internal IDA memo of May 17, 1983 and IDA letter to the General Manager of NPA on the same date.
13/    The average price per barrel of crude oil peaked at US$ 34.3 in 1981 but began its decline in
1982 when it was USS 31. When IDA abandoned the Bumbuna project in 1984 it had falen to
USS 28.
14/    For example, between 1984 and 1991, the exchange rate deteriorated from 3.5 Leones per US
dollar to 424 Leones per US dollar.



-8-
1.19   The main issue that affected the performance of the Project was the divergence between
IDA's priorities for the power sector and those of the Borrower. The Government, since the
early 1970s has considered the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project the chief priority in the power
sector and had during the course of the Project's implementation invested heavily in the Bumbuna
Project without the participation of IDA. However, from IDA's perspective, the Bumbuna
Project was one of a range of possibilities that were subject to economic and financial criteria as
well as IDA priorities for the use of its funds in Sierra Leone. IDA's priorities shifted from the
Bumbuna project to structural adjustment of the economy and rehabilitation of the electric power
sector. Given this shift, once IDA dropped the Bumbuna Project from its lending program it also
lost its major source of leverage for the Borrower's commitment to other aspects of the Project,
especially financial covenants.
E. Sustainability of Project Benefits
1.20   Because of IDA's suspension of disbursements during the Project's second period, as well
as the collapse of the utility in 1991 I5/, this section concentrates on the sustainability of the
benefits of the Project in its third phase, when IDA and the Borrower jointly were developing a
program to rebuild the power sector. In the third phase of the Project, during 1992-93, the
remaining US$1.3 million were utilized for technical assistance and spare parts under the
emergency rehabilitation program, which served as a prelude to rebuilding the power company
and an important first step in creating a new commitment of the Government and NPA to making
NPA a financially viable entity. The benefits of these investments are expected to be sustained
because of the following factors. First, the rehabilitation project (Cr. 2356-SL) is providing for a
comprehensive revamping of the entire power system and represents a fairly large investment for
the Government, US$52.8 million, providing the Government with an added incentive to maintain
its commitment to realizing the potential benefits of the project. The second factor is the
Government's agreement to hire qualified specialists under a performance-based management
contract to manage NPA for a three-year period. Third, because of the Government's poor track
record in compliance with project covenants, the rehabilitation project required considerable up-
front conditionality, in addition to dated covenants governing crucial project actions.
F. Consultant Performance
1.21   The project financed two groups of consultants. One was the engineering firm that
completed the engineering work and tender documents for the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project.
According to supervision reports and interviews with IDA staff involved with the consultants their
performance was good. The second set of consultants were attached to the utility for a period of
about two years to improve general management and financial performance. According to
project files, their performance was "not as satisfactory" as the performance of the engineering
consultants. What is not clear, however, is the extent to which this assessment is due to the
actual work of the consultants or the difficult conditions they were working under since they did
not have line management authority. The consultants expressed a desire to have their contract
renewed, citing their accomplishments, which include a claim to a considerable reduction in
system losses. Nevertheless, NPA decided not to renew their contract.
15/    The Kingtom power station shut down for one month during 1991.



-9-
G. Project Documentation and Data
1.22   The Project's Memorandum of the President (MOP) was the basic document for
information on the project and there are several ways in which this should have been more
comprehensive. First, it should have provided at least a few lines on the results of the Bumbuna
feasibility study that preceded the engineering work the Project was financing. Second it should
have provided information on captive generating plants and the related industries using them.
This information was important since captive plants accounted for nearly 40 percent of total
generation capacity in the country and that the substitution, by mining industries, of power from
the public electricity system for captive power was a major factor in the economic evaluation for
the Bumbuna Project. Third, the report does not clearly link project objectives to electric power
sector objectives; most notably it does not explicitly address the issue of electricity
interconnections with neighboring power systems. Fourth, although there are several strict
covenants for the financial performance of NPA, there is no financial analysis in the report or
reference to one. Concerning the Project's implementation, supervision reports had very little
information on the components which the OPEC Fund financed, making it difficult to assess the
impact of management technical assistance, rehabilitation work, and training. On the Borrower's
side, NPA furnished only one progress report to IDA, during the first phase of the Project. Also,
during the Project's first two periods, NPA provided IDA with no audit reports. However,
during the Project's third phase, NPA submitted audit reports for fiscal years 1987-92, the period
of IDA's suspension of disbursements.
H. Project Relationships
1.23   During the first period of the Project, IDA, especially its engineering staff, appeared to
have a good rapport with NPA and the consultants doing the Bumbuna engineering work.
However toward the end of the first period (1986), IDA staff became very frustrated with the
Government's failure to reply to requests for tariff increases and finally IDA stopped
disbursements. During the second period of the project, IDA had virtually no relationship with
the power sector because of the general suspension of disbursements. In the third period, IDA re-
established relations with Sierra Leone's power sector and experienced a considerable level of
commitment and concern about the implementation of the emergency rehabilitation program and
the preparation of a comprehensive rehabilitation project.
I. Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
Performance
1.24   The Borrower for the Project was the Government of Sierra Leone and NPA was the
Project's Implementing Agency. The Government did not comply with all of the important
covenants in the Credit Agreement which were designed to support the implementing agency's
efficiency of operations and financial viability. Facing a very difficult economic situation, the
Government chose to postpone tariff increases until the economy and the operation of the power
system improved. Unfortunately the expected level of improvement did not materialize and the
power system fell into complete disrepair. NPA's strengths were in the execution of the
components for the preparation of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric project, the repair of the cooling
water system at the Kingtom power station and the acquisition of spare parts for the emergency
rehabilitation program. In particular, the project files indicate that NPA did a good job preparing
the bidding documents for the cooling water system and exercised caution in the repair by first
contracting an engineering study to precisely determine where improvements were needed.



-10-
However, there were problems with NPA's performance in two areas: use of management
consultants; and the execution of the training component (para 14). Furthermore, NPA
experienced difficulties in adherence to the major covenants in the project's legal agreements for:
project execution; safeguarding the utility's financial situation; acceptable standards for
management and operation of the utility; and maintenance of the company's financial viability
(See Part III, Table 7). Perhaps the single most important problem with the performance of both
the Borrower and the Implementing Agency was their failure to take active responsibility for the
project and make a commitment to obtain the expected benefits from it. In particular they seem
to have lost interest in the Project after IDA decided not to finance the Bumbuna project.
Lessons Learned
1.25   The major lesson for the Government and NPA is the importance of making a
commitment to the achievement of sector objectives and taking the responsibility that comes with
the ownership of a project and the related investment. They should fulfill project objectives and
covenants not only to avoid IDA's suspension of disbursements but, more importantly, to assure
the financial viability and operational integrity of the power system and protect their investment.
If NPA believed that the Project had been overtaken by events, making the achievement of the
original objectives and compliance with covenants no longer possible, they should have looked
into alternative actions and proposed them to IDA. For example, in opposition to major increases
in tariffs which already were very high, senior government officials rightly called attention to the
need to concentrate more on reducing the utility's costs, suggesting a detailed look at the power
system's operational efficiency, instead of narrowly focussing mainly on tariff increases. The
utility should have pursued this response actively and requested IDA assistance.
J. Performance of IDA and Lessons Learned
Performance
1.26   First, the design of the Project did not explicitly address the problem of operating
efficiency, measures for reducing costs other than fuel costs and options for increasing revenues
other than tariff increases. This was an important omission for a small country with a very low
per capita income and tariffs already higher than those of many developed countries. Second, the
project did not provide enough detail on the functions of the management consultants in the utility
and IDA did not even finance this important component. This was a significant flaw in the
Project's design considering that previous PCRs and the project brief for the Bumbuna project
cited poor management as the chief cause of the power system's problems. Third, the financial
conditionality of the Project was out of proportion to the small amount of the Credit, SDR 4.5
million, and not backed by sufficient information and analysis in the Project's documents. The
target rates of return on revalued assets, (8-10 percent) were overly optimistic. Under the Third
Power Project, this rate had been no higher than 4 percent and it was not at all clear how the
power utility could reach double this rate in just a two-year period.
1.27  In the supervision of the Project, IDA failed to insist that NPA set up the Engineering
Review Board, accepting NPA's reasoning that the review was not necessary since IDA was
deferring the financing of the Bumbuna Project. According to the Project Agreement, the
appointment of the Engineering Review Board should have taken place before the completion of
the engineering work; it was not contingent on IDA's future financing of the Bumbuna project.
Also, there was the lack of a consolidated IDA position on what to do about the Bumbuna
Project, which may have given conflicting signals to the Government and NPA. The Projects



-11-
Division promoted support of the large Bumbuna project focussing on the need to make
productive use of the sunk costs. The Prograrns Division, however, was concerned that even a
scaled-down version of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project was just too much for the country's
deteriorating economy.
1.28   IDA's strength was its redirection of the Credit's proceeds to support an emergency
rehabilitation program and following up with the preparation of a rehabilitation project with a
design which reflects the difficult lessons learned from previous power projects in Sierra Leone.
Lessons Learned
1.29   IDA learned several lessons from this project. The first is the need to fully incorporate
the experience from past projects into the design of future project components. Given the
Government's past pattern of not refraining from interference in the operations of the power
company, the Project at the very least should have included a management component with
explicit definition of functions and achievement targets. Also given the importance of
management technical assistance, IDA should have financed it. Second, it is especially important
to make sure conditions are reasonable and attainable given the project's scale and past
performance of the Borrower. The financial targets for the Project were unrealistic and without a
promise of financing the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, IDA did not have sufficient leverage for
compliance with a Credit of only SDR 4.5 millon. The third lesson is to take a comprehensive
approach to improving the financial condition of a utility including a wide range of options for
increasing revenues and reducing costs, instead of focussing narrowly on conditionality for
increasing tariffs, especially in poor countries where tariffs already are prohibitively high. The
Loan Committee's review of the Project raised some of these concerns but IDA staff did not
sufficiently account for this concern in the Project's design, leaving too many loose ends and
transferring considerable ad hoc responsibility to the consultants providing management
assistance.



-12-
SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1265-SL
PART II: REPORT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE BORROWER
A. Introduction
2.1    The present NPA management, having been appointed in March 1993, had to take over
the day-to-day activities of the National Power Authority for which an Emergency Program had
been set up on earlier stage. The schedule of activities did also include the promotion of the
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project, supported by IDA and other donor organization. The
emergency program was meant to prevent a further decline in operational conditions, to restore
and improve generation by overhauling a Sulzer engine and to strengthen the institutional and
managerial resources still available. In order to provide a sound basis for the achievement of
these targets, remaining funds of the Engineering Credit 1265-SL were made available for
procurement of spare parts for a one year operation of the generating plant including also funds
for the technical assistance at Kingtom Power Station.
2.2    Due to the given background, the poor management in former years, the nearly total
absence of reliable information of project accounting and project reporting, the present
management presents thereafter a short review and assessment of the Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project 1265-SL. The present NPA-management has inherited a situation
showing for the Engineering credit a balance of about SDR 1.4 million. The present report will
therefore briefly resume the periods 1982 up to 1987, 1987 up to 1992 and the period up to the
credit closing date September 30, 1993.
2.3    At the same time, NPA management wishes to extend its sincere thanks to the team of the
Industry and Energy Operations, Western Africa Department, as well as to the officials of the
Loan Department, for its practical contributions and guidance during the disbursement period.
B. Historical Background 1982-1987, 1987-1992
2.4    The National Power Authority, having been established in January 1982 by the NPA Act
1982 as successor company of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC), has met seriously
deteriorating economic conditions with extreme shortage and limitations to foreign exchange.
2.5    While oil imports have been restricted for some time in the early 80s, it became
extremely difficult for NPA to maintain the technical conditions of the recently extended
distribution network, intended to provide more reliable power supplies for Freetown in general
and particularly during the OAU conference.
2.6   In order to prevent further deterioration of the entire power sector, a project agreement
was signed on July 8, 1982 between IDA, GOSL and NPA, addressing following project
components:



-13-
(a) Preparation of Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project
(i) comprising a detailed engineering, preparation of bid documents for civil works
and engineering contracts
(ii) estahlishment of an Engineering Review Board
(iii) assessment of the economic impact of the project on the Oil refinery
(b) Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities
(i) maintenance of existing diesel generating units and distribution systems
(ii) maximization of power output at Kingtom Power Plant through improvement of
cooling system
(c) Institutional Changes and Training
(i) comprising technical assistance to strengthen NPA's management and oversear
training for 12 selected NPA executives
The project, covering an amount of SDR 4,500,000 was expected to be completed by December
1984, incorporating also contributions from the OPEC Fund for International Development.
2.7    From the view point of the present management of NPA, it is most regretful that the
Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project 1265-SL could not be implemented
according to schedule. It appears that non-compliance with basic principles of the project
agreement had been disregarded by NPA and superior authorities as well. Due to the decision
taken by the GOSL for new investments (i.e., procurement of KHD sets), the project was
reformulated, adjusted and finally suspended until a date (1991) where the present set up of the
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project has emerged including the emergency program, which was
then started in March 1992. Permission was given to NPA to utilize the remaining funds of the
former project known as Engineering Credit 1265-SL.
C. NPA's Performance during Disbursement Period 1992-1993
1. Contractual Prerequisites
Technical Assistance Component
2.8   In view of the nature of the entire rehabilitation project and the intention to utilize the
remaining proceeds of the engineering credit towards the partial overhauling of the generation sets
installed at Kingtom Power Station, NPA has entered into a contract with the German Technical
Cooperation Agency in implementing projects within the framework of the Emergency
Programme, especially in what concerns the technical assistance for the Power Plant. This
project component accounts for US$440,000 and covered services for a generation manager, a
specialist in diesel engines and a manager for the distribution department.
2.9   In addition to that, GTZ in agreement with NPA, has subcontracted services to a
consultancy firm to render technical assistance as part of its cooperation program.



-14-
Consultancy Component
2.10   The proceeds of the remaining funds were also utilized to cover local consultancy services
for the evaluation of fixed assets of NPA and assistance for the computerized billing department
of NPA.
2.11  External short term consultancy services had been sought as part of the strengthening of
the computerized billing in establishing a network operation.
2.12   Both components are accounting for US$25,000.
Procurement of Spares and Equipment
2.13   NPA has also contracted, also in agreement with GTZ, the said consultancy firm to
undertake procurement services in connection with the procurement of spares and equipment
necessary for the Emergency Program. This project component accounts for US$770,000
excluding a 5% service fee.
2.14   The procurement of goods has been carried out in accordance with detailed lists and
specifications in strict conformity of guidelines for competitive international shopping.
2.15   In view of the scarce situation of the vehicle fleet of NPA agreement was reached to
utilize portions of the remaining funds, i.e., about US$110,000 for the procurement of urgently
needed vehicles. In this respect 4-double cabin multipurpose vehicles, 4-WD, were purchased,
serving nowadays to enhance revenue collection exercises, line connections, meter replacements,
etc.
2. Experience during Project Execution
2.16   The coordination of the procurement activities were quite satisfactory. All spares have
been ordered on behalf of the NPA indicating NPA as the beneficiary of the goods. Due to the
lack of information and comnmunication, goods have arrived without prior notice. This situation
has, however, been rectified within shortest time.
3. Type of spares and equipment procured
2.17   The categories of spares and equipment procured may be briefly resumed as follows:
-   parts for Sulzer engine type 8 RNF 68, two stroke cross head engine; low speed
-   parts for KHD standby sets, four stroke cross head engine: medium speed
-   incinerator for proper sludge oil disposal
-   power transformer for distribution network
-   single and three phase meters
-   overhead and underground cabling materials
-   multipurpose vehicles



-15-
4. NPA Contribution
2.18   Due to the given constellation that goods had been dispatched CIF Freetown, NPA had to
face local clearing and forwarding cost from the quay to Kingtom Power Station. These costs are
estimated to about US$15,000, thus 1% of the funds made available.
5. Import Duties
2.19   Basing on the existing contractual conditions, NPA has been granted duty free concession
for the import of spares and equipment.
6. Damages
2.20   All goods were delivered without damages. No compensation or claims had to be dealt
with.
D. Disbursement Procedures
2.21   All disbursement procedures, as indicated in the Disbursement Handbook, had strictly
been followed. Following procedures had been applied during the project implementation:
-   direct Disbursement
-   application of Statement of Expenditure procedure
-   opening of a special account, which, however, had finally been rejected since the
corresponding bank had not been considered as a commercial bank
-   disbursement through letter of credits
The application of all possible disbursement procedures has provided NPA with sufficient
experience to positively address future disbursement activities within credit 2356-SL.
E. Project Benefits
1. Technical Benefits
2.22   In the absence of a sound institutional basis of the utility, it was of utmost importance to
the scheduled Power Sector Rehabilitation Project that it has been proceeded by a emergency
program. The emergency program itself would not have shown the results known to the parties
concerned, when complementary measures in form of financial project assistance would not have
been made available.
2.23   Due to the proceeds of the Engineering Credit 1265-SL, the power generation has been
restored and maintained on a satisfactory level. The technical conditions of the distribution
network has been stabilized and partly improved (new transformers, replacement of faulty meters,
repair of underground cables out of service since many years, etc.) as to the extent that the
transition towards the rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution project becomes more
effective.



-16-
2. Benefits for Human Resources
2.24   The project benefits are also clearly to be recorded in professional training of NPA's
work force. The institutional strengthening generated by the emergency program has helped to
restore confidence in managerial leadership and motivation to reapply professional skill for all
technical works.
2.25   In this respect, it can be stated that NPA is nowadays in a position to address nearly all
kinds of maintenance and overhauling works at Kingtom Power Station. The training on the job
during the erection works of both Sulzer engines and overhauling of the KDH sets, carried out as
joint work between the procurement agent and NPA staff on basis of a high intensity work force
operation, has kept the know-how within NPA.
2.26   A similar boost had been given to the Transmission and Distribution Department. The
supply of materials and vehicles urgently needed, which in former times were absent for many
years, has positively influenced the approach and the quality of workmanship.
F. Project Accounting
2.27   As already mentioned in the introduction, access to data covering the project, spanned
over more than a decade, is no longer available. Multiple changes in project man-power and
replacements in management has completely offset the records of the project performance. In
view of that, the present management regrets the absence of any valuable information on project
accounting and project financing. Therefore, table 5 cannot be completed by the Borrower as
requested in the PCR.
G. Remaining Activities to be fulfilled by NPA
2.28   Following the IDA's lending procedures, the borrower (NPA) still has to seek a complete
audit of the reliability of the financial information and pertinent data set out in the financial
statements and reports. The process of audit shall be undertaken by a competent and independent
auditor. This audit report will have to be provided within 6 months of the closing date of the
credit line. Otherwise the Bank may decide to suspend disbursement in other credit lines.



-17-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
POWER SECTOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO: 1265-SL
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Original Credit
Loan or Credi                                                or Loan
No./Year of          Project Name and Objectives            Amount         Status
Approval                                                (million US$)
Ln. 338-SL   Power I. Help finance the construction of the   3.8        Completed
1964         Kingtom thermal power station, near Freetown,
and related distribution facilities
Ln. 553-SL   Power II. Increase power generating facilities at 3.9      Completed
1968        the Kingtom station and at stations in two
provincial towns. Further expand distribution
facilities.
Cr. 734-SL,  Power III. Provide funding for feasibility and    5.0      Completed
1977         detailed engineering work for the development of
the Bumbuna hydropower site as well as support
in institutional development and system
rehabilitation.
Cr. 2356-SL  Power Sector Rehabilitation Project. Assist NPA 21.0       Ongoing
1992        in maintenance and rehabilitation of its Western
Area power facilities and enhance supply
reliability. Strengthen NPA's institutional
capability to become a viable commercial entity.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report for Sierra Leone: Power Sector Rehabilitation Project, March
31, 1992.



-18-
Table 2
Project Timetable
Stage of Project Cycle                 Original Date             Actual Date
Appraisal                                10/21/81                 10/21/81
Negotiations                             04/30/82                 04/30/82
Board Approval                           06/17/82                 06/17/82
Effectiveness                            07/31/82                 12/31/82
Closing                                  12/31/84                 09/30/93
Completion                               04/30/84                 01/31/94
ource: IDA's management information system.
Table 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year         Original Plan           Actual          Actual as % of
original amount
1983                 3.00                 1.68                 56
1984                 5.00                 1.98                 40
1985                 5.00                 2.76                 55
1986                 5.00                 3.76                 75
1987                 5.00                 3.76                 75
1988                  --                  3.76                 75
1989                                      3.76                 75
1990                                      3.76                 75
1991                                      3.76                 75
1992                                      4.18                 84
1993                                      4.18                 84
1994                                     6.12a/              120a/
_1 IDA disbursed all of the Credit's original amount, SDR 4.5 million. The final figure is higher
in US$ terms than the original amount in US$ terms because of exchange rate changes between
the US$ and the SDR. The final amount in US$ is based on an exchange rate of US$ 1.361
per SDR.
Source: IDA's disbursement data bank.



-19-
Table 4
Project Implementation Indicators
Although project documents do not delineate specific project indicators, the following indicators
are implicit in the project's design.
IndiUator 1: Appointment of the
Engineering Review Board
Original Plan: NPA's appointment, by September 30, 1982, of an Engineering Review
Board with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Actual Result: NPA did not establish the Board and IDA did not insist on compliance
with this covenant.
Indicator 2: Completion of Impact
Study for the Freetown Oil Refinery
Original Plan: Completion by December 31, 1982 of a study on the expected impact of
the Bumbuna Hydropower Project on the Freetown oil refinery.
Actual Result: NPA and IDA decided that this study was not necessary because IDA had
prepared a review of the refinery sector.
Indicator 3: Preparation of the
economic and ftnancial evaluation of
the Bunbuna project
Original Plan: Completion of the consultant engineering work and the review by the
Engineering Review Board to enable economic and financial evaluation by the
Government and IDA by late 1982 or early 1983.
Actual Result: There was a delay in the completion of this work due to a delay in the
effectiveness of the Credit and the need for the engineering consultants to prepare several
design modifications, responding to lower oil prices than anticipated and the need to make
the investment financially more affordable to Sierra Leone.



-20-
Indcatoir 4: Overau project
I ceomple4on timeline 0t 
Original Plan: Implementation of the project over a two-year period with completion by
the end of 1984.
Actual Result: The implementation of the Project was not complete until September
1993. Most of the delay was due to IDA's suspension of disbursements due to non-
compliance with Project covenants and arrears in Sierra Leone's payments to IDA on
outstanding loans and credits.
Source: Project files.



-21-
Table S
Project Cost and Financing
Table 5 (a): Project Costs
Project Components               Original Plan       l            Actual
[ Foreign   Local    Total    Foreign    Local    Total
Rehabilitation of Existing   2.5      0.1      2.6        5.8
Equipment                l                   __
Institutional Support        2.3      0.4      2.7        1.0        *
Completion of Bumbuna        3.7      0.3      4.0        3.3                       l
Preparation                                                                         l
Baseline Costs               8.5      0.8      9.3         --
1.5      0.2      1.7        --
Contingencies            l
10.0     1.0      11.0       10.1       *
Total                    l
Table S (b)
Project Financing
Financing Agency              Original Plan                   Actual            l
Foreign   Local    Total    Foreign    Local    Total
IDA                          5.0       --       5.0       6.1       --
The OPEC Fund                5.0       --       5.0       4.0   |    -
Government                    --       1.0      1.0       --
Total                        10.0      1.0     11.0      10.1       --
* Information to complete these sections is not in the Project's files. IDA requested the
information from the Borrower and was informed that it is not available (see Part II, para 2.27).
Source: Disbursement data from IDA and the OPEC Fund.



-22-
Table 6
Status of Project Covenants
A. Credit Agreement
Section 3.01
Description: Borrower to cause NPA to perform in accordance with provisions of the
project agreement, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate for NPA to perform its obligations and not take any action to
interfere with it.
Status: Insufficient compliance. The Borrower did not consistently take all possible
actions to adhere to this covenant.
Section 3.02
Description: The Borrower to make available the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund
Loan to NPA as part of the Borrower's contribution to NPA's equity.
Status: Complied.
Section 3.03
Description: The Borrower to ensure that, upon an increase in the cost of fuel oil
supplied to NPA, NPA promptly put into effect a corresponding increase in its electricity
tariffs, as required by the fuel adjustment clause.
Status: Insufficient compliance. The Borrower did not consistently take all possible
action to allow NPA to increase tariffs due to higher fuel costs.



-23-
Section 3.04    l:
Description: Until NPA puts into effect the electricity tariff increases which Section 4.03
of the Project Agreement requires, the Borrower shall provide to NPA, promptly as the
case may require, adequate funds in the form of grants to enable NPA to achieve the rates
of return specified in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Status: Insufficient compliance. The Borrower did not always provide NPA with
adequate compensation when the Borrower did not permit tariff increases.
Section 3.05
Description: Without limitation or restriction on its other obligations under this
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that NPA meet its obligations to increase electricity
tariffs in accordance with Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Status: Insufficient compliance. IDA stopped disbursements on the Credit for the Project
from April 1985 to December 1986 because the Borrower did not adhere to this covenant.



-24-
Section 3.06
Description: Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the fuel adjustment clause.
Status: Complied.
B. Proiect Agreement
[     Section 2.01
Description: NPA to implement the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices. Also, NPA will establish an Engineering Review Board by September 30, 1982,
and maintain its form and functioning thereafter satisfactory to the Association.
NPA to furnish the Association with terms of reference for the Board, the list of
candidates proposed form membership and details of the proposed contract arrangements
relating to their employment on the Board.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA did not set up the Engineering Review Board and
IDA did not insist on compliance.
Section 2.02 
Description: NPA to employ consultants, experts, and specialists in accordance with
World Bank guidelines.
Status: Complied.
Section 2.03
Description: By December 31, 1982, NPA to furnish the Association with the results of
the study on the Freetown Oil Refinery, to be implemented under Part A of the Project.
Status: Both IDA and NPA agreed that NPA did not need to do the study because IDA
had prepared a refinery sector review.



-25-
Section 2.04
Description: Procurement of goods for Part B of the Project to take place on the basis of
international shopping after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers. The
procurement of civil works for Part B of the Project to be made on the basis of local
competitive bidding.
Status: Complied.
Section 2.05
Description: NPA to make adequate provisions for insurance of imported goods under
the Project. Also NPA to use all goods and services financed from the Project's proceeds
for the purposes of the Project.
Status: Complied.



-26-
Section 2.06
Description NPA to furnish the Association with any documents and schedules related to
the Project as well as any modifications of them. NPA to provide the Association, no
later than six months after the closing date of the project, unless otherwise agreed, a
report on the execution and initial operation of the project, including its costs and
benefits.
Also, NPA to allow Association access to relevant records and facilities related to the
Project.
Status: Complied.
Section 2.07
Description: At the request of the Association, NPA to exchange views on the progress
of the Project, the performance of obligations under the Agreement and other matters
related to the Credit.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA did not prepare progress reports as IDA
requested.
Section 3.01
Description: NPA to operate according to sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA could not consistently operate its system according
to acceptable utility practice because of a serious lack of funds resulting from the high
costs of its operations and inadequate revenues.



-27-
Section 3.02     ||
Description: NPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant machinery , equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly, as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practice.
Status: Insufficient compliance. Throughout most of the Project's implementation NPA
did not have enough funds to do essential maintenance.
Section 3.03
Description: NPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Status: Complied.



-28-
Section 4.01_       l
Description: NPA to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA did not keep adequate records on the use of
Project funds.
Section 4.02
Description: NPA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements audited for each
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;(ii) furnish the Association as soon as
available, but not later than four months after the end for such year, certified copies of its
financial statements as audited and the report of the audit in such scope and detail as the
Association shall reasonably request;(iii) furnish the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of NPA and the audit thereof as the
Association shall reasonably request.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA was late in providing audit reports.
Section 4.03
Description: NPA to increase its electricity tariffs by at least 15 percent on or before
July 1, 1983.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA was late in making this increase.
Section 4.04 _
Description: NPA shall, from time to time, take all measures such as adjustments in the
structure or levels of its electricity tariffs, to produce for its fiscal year ending March 31,
1984, an annual return of not less than ten percent of the average current net value of
NPA's fixed assets in operation and, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending
on March 31, 1984, an annual return of not less than eight percent of the average current
net value of NPA's fixed assets in operation.
Status: Insufficient compliance. The Borrower did not allow sufficient tariff increases,
or provide NPA with sufficient funds to reach these targets.



-29-
[   7 Section 4.05
Description: NPA shall: (a) no later than March 31, 1984, revalue its assets and
thereafter keep such assets revaluated annually in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the Association; and (b) no later than
March 31, 1983, revise its depreciation policy in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Status: Insufficient compliance. NPA took some initial steps toward revising
depreciation policy and revaluing its assets. However, NPA did not continue the process
as the covenant stipulated.
Section 4.06
Description: Upon any increase in the cost of its fuel oil, NPA shall, promptly put into
effect a corresponding increase in its electricity tariffs as required by the fuel adjustment
clause.
Status: Insufficient compliance. The Borrower did not consistently allow NPA to
increase its tariffs due to higher fuel costs.
Source: The Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and Project files.



-30-
Table 7
Project Results
Expcted Results                            Actual Results
Improved reliability of power services and  Not achieved due to severe shortage of
the financial performance of the power     foreign exchange for parts and the lack of
sector.                                    sufficient management attention to the
reliability of supply.
Improved capability in NPA for the         The technical assistance that the Project
consolidation and development of the power    provided did not develop a sufficient
sector.                                    managerial capability to operate the power
system according to acceptable
administrative, technical and financial
standards.
The establishment of an Engineering Review    NPA did not establish the Engineering
Board to assess the project's viability    Review Board and IDA did not insist on it.
A completed study on the economic impact of  IDA and NPA determined that this was not
the proposed Bumbuna hydropower project    necessary in light of an IDA refinery sector
on the Freetown oil refinery.              study.
Completion of the bidding documents for the   The consultants for the Project completed the
Bumbuna hydropower project.                bidding documents for the Bumbuna project.



-31-
Table 8
Use of Staff Resources
A. Use of Staff Resources by Stage of Project Cycle
(Staffweeks)
Year           Through           Negotiations and    Supervision       Total
Appraisal         Board Presentation
1982           21.6              4.6                1.0               27.2
1983                                                12.1               12.1
1984                                                11.7               11.7
1985                                                 3.3               3.3
1986                                                 7.5               7.5
1987                                                 5.9               5.9
1988                                                 0.1               0.1
1989
1990                                                 0.6               0.6
1991                                                 0.1               0.1
1992                                                 0.8               0.8
1993                                                 2.9               2.9
Total          21.6               4.6               46.0               72.2
Source: IDA's Management Information System



-32-
Table 8 (b): Major ProiectMisseions
Mission     Dates             No.    Staffing    Comments
Type                          of
_  days                                                   l
PREP        Jun 6-10, 1981    5       IDR;       Government agreement on a new
IDC;ILO   power authority to handle the
Bumbuna project.
APPR        Oct 26-Nov 1,    7        lFA;       Board presentation to be withheld
1981                     ICON       pending tariff action.
SPVN 1      Jun 28-Jul 16,    19      1FA;       Overall progress encouraging.
1982                     lPE        Government has contracted for
Bumbuna site works costing US$ 20
million.
SPVN 2      Jul 11-27, 1982   17      1 PE       Bumbuna Project needs design
modifications to make it economically
viable.
SPVN 3      Jul 23-Aug 9,     19      IFA;       Provided detailed explanation of
1982                     IPE; I     project objectives and obligations.
PEC
SPVN 4      Oct 4-8, 1983     5       1 PE       Recommendation of further
evaluations for a comparison between
hydro and thermal solutions to
meeting power demand.
SPVN 5      Oct 13-27, 1982   15      1 LO       Revised project brief for the proposed
Bumbuna Project to reflect IDA
evaluation of economic merits and
results of comparisons with other
hydro schemes.
SPVN 6      Nov 1-7, 1982     8       1 FA       Agreement on reduced scope of
Bumbuna. Credit not yet effective.
SPVN 7      Jan 21-27, 1983    8      1 PE       Bid documents for Bumbuna to be
based on the reduced option.
SPVN 8      Feb 14-22, 1983   9       1 PE; 1    Slow progress in procuring parts for
FA         Kingtom's water cooling system.
Engineering Board not yet formed.
Management consultants selected.
IDA to defer financing of Bumbuna
__ _ __ _ _ _   _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _  _ _ __ _ _ proj ect .l



-33-
Mission     Dates             No.    Staffing    Comments
Type                          of
days                                                    l
SPVN 9      Dec 1983          NS      1 PE        Non-compliance with or rate-of-return
covenants. IDA request that NPA
clearly define functions of
management consultants. Audits
behind schedule
SPVN 10    Jan 3-9, 1984       7      IPE;       Project rate "3 as having major
lFA        problems. Lack of tariff action. No
progress or audit reports received.
IDA study indicates adverse financial
impact of Bumbuna.
SPVN 11    May 21-28,          8      1PE;        Financial situation of NPA
1985                     IFA        deteriorating. Should not present
rehabilitation project to Board without
tariff action.
SPVN 12    Feb 7-21, 1986    15       IDDC;    Disbursements suspended except for
IPE        improvements to the Kingtom power
station's water cooling system.
Government approved a 200 percent
tariff increase. Evidence require that
it has taken effect.
SPVN 13    Sept 8-19, 1986   12       IDDC;    Recommended lifting of suspension of
IPE        disbursements subject to tariff action.
Urgent need for spare parts and
modification of CA to provide them.
SPVN 14    Oct 30-Nov 3,    5         IDDC        Government request for: extension of
.4/          1986                                 project closing date; and financing of
expatriate managers for three years;
and reinstatement of power system
rehabilitation project.



-34-
Table 8(): Major Project Missions (Continued)
Mission    Dates             No.    Staffing     Comments
Type                         of
Days
SPVN        Mar 6-19, 1993   13      lEC; IPE;  Decision to use the remaining funds of
15_/                                 1FA        the emergency rehabilitation program.
New Board of Directors for NPA.
SPVN 16   Jun 30-Jul 15,    16       lEC         Closing date for the project extended
h/          1993                                 to September 30, 1993. Progress
reported in utilization of the remaining
funds of the Credit.
a/ Joint sector and project supervision mission.
12/ Mission also supervised the Prower Sector Rehabilitation Project.
Staffiny codes: CON= consultant; DC=Division Chief;DDC=Deputy Division Chief; DR=
director; EC=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst; LO=Loan Officer; PE=Power Engineer;
PEC =Power Economist
Activily Codes: APPR= Project Appraisal; PREP=Project Preparation; SECT= Sector Mission;
SPVN= Supervision Mission.



-35-
Annex 1
Profile of the Public Electricity System in Sierra Leone
SUPPLY                       AT PROJECT APPRAISAL         AT PCR PREPARATION
Installed Capacity (MW)     Total: 61                    Total: 51.9
Western Area: 44            Western Area: 33.4
Other Areas: 17             Other Areas:  18.5
Number of power stations    Two diesel plants            Two diesel plants
One small hydro plant       One small hydro plant
Firm Capacity in the        31                           6.5
Western Area (MW)
No. of customers in the     20,000                       27,000
Western Area
Consumption by sector (%)    Industrial and commercial:    Industrial and Commercial:
50                          52
Residential: 21             Residential: 46
Losses: 29                  Other: 2



-36-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE: POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1265-SL
Annex 2
Selected Economic Indicators at the time of project appraisal
General Indicators 1/                          US$ million
GNP at market prices                                871.4
Gross domestic investment                           135.2
Current account balance                            -116.6
Exports                                             209.7
Imports                                            -313.8
Petroleum Imports 2/                               -67.0
Structure of exports                 US$ million       % share
(Avg. 1977-79)
Minerals                                              105.8             58.4
Diamonds                                           97.7              53.9
Iron Ore                                           3/                3/
Bauxite                                            8.1               4.5
Agricultural Commodities                              64.1              35.4
Coffee                                             32.5              17.9
Cocoa                                              22.8              12.6
Palm kernels and products                           8.8               4.9
All other commodities                                 10.9               6.7
Total                                                 181.1             100.0
Notes:
1/ Data for 1978/89.
2/ Data for 1979.
3/ Production ceased in 1975 but the average value of exports for 1973-75 was US$ 14.3 million
annually or 10.7 of mineral exports during that period.
Source: Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit to the Republic of Sierra Leone for a
Power Sector and Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit, Annex 1, May 27, 1982.



-37-
Annex 3
Briefing Note on the Engineering Work for the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project
Project Background and Original Design
1.     Engineering consultants identified the Bumbuna Hydroelectric scheme in 1971, during a
1971 survey of the country's hydroelectic potential. After a preliminary study of the Seli River, a
further review recommended its staged development with the Bumbuna Falls dam as the first
stage. In 1977, IDA (Credit 734-SL) and the OPEC Fund financed a comprehensive feasibility of
the is project. This study was completed in 1980. A follow-up Credit (No. 1265-SL) financed
further engineering work and the preparation of the bidding documents. The bidding documents
were completed in 1984. Also, the Government of Sierra obtained a US$ 20 million loan from a
bilateral source to build camps and river diversion works for the project. The original design of
the first stage of the Bumbuna project, based on the feasibility study, called for for two units
totalling 67 MW power plant with the provision for a third unit and double-circuit transmission
with substations to deliver power to : the capital, Freetown; provincial centers; and mining areas.
The projection for medium-term demand growth was 4.6 percent annually.
Design Modifications
2.      The engineering consultants made two sets of modifications of the original design. The
first one, completed in October 1982, responded to the drop in oil prices that had taken place
since the 1980 feasibility study. The second modification, in July 1984, took account of the need
to make the project more affordable for the country while maintaining the expected economic
benefits. For the first modification, the Bumbuna consultants, under the supervision of the Bank,
did several analyses to improve the economic merits of the project under lower oil prices. The
focus was on deferring investments that were not indispensable, such as facilities for substitution
of thermal generation for hydro in small urban centers, and service to private diamond mines
which would not have to depend on the Bumbuna plant for their operations. The conclusions
were based on a constant price of US$ 33/barrel and the OPEC benchmark price of US$
29/barrel. Table 1 summarizes the results of the analysis:
Table 1: Comparative Economics of the Original Bumbuna Hydroelectric Proiect w%ith Two Alternatives
BASE COST             Equalizing Discount Rate (percent)
PROJECT                       IN
US$        Total Investment with  TotAl Investment, leas sunk
MILLION      crude oil at:        cost at:
USS 33    USS 29    US$ 33 per   US$ 29 per
l___________________  per barrel   per barrel   barel  barrel
Original Design                             213.9          12.9      10.6       14.9       12.2
Alternative 1: The Origiaal Project with a single-  192.7  13.1      10.8       15.8       12.7
circuit main transmission line.
Alternative 2: Alternative I without substations  167.2    13.0      10.7       15.7       12.5
outside of Freetown and a line to the mines                                                        l
Source: Based on an IDA report discussing a January 1983 meeting with the Bumbuna consultats.
3.      The consultants and IDA found Alternative 2, which would supply the Western area only,
the most viable alternative economically and financially because it was close to the original
project but the capital investment was much lower than Alternative 1. The evaluation also did



-38-
several sensitivity analyses, taking account of: exclusion of sunk costs 16/; a 30 percent
increase in capital costs; constant fuel prices at the 1982 level; and a one-year delay in project
completion. In all scenarios, the discount rate remained above the cost of capital (10 percent)
except in the worst-case scenario of constant oil prices in combination with a 30 percent increase
in capital costs, which reduced the equalizing discount rate to 8.9 percent.
4.      The second modification responded to IDA's concern that even the preferred alternative,
although economically justifiable would have an adverse financial impact on the economy. IDA
and the engineering consultants then focussed on another design alternative that would take
account of the Sierra Leone's financing constraint and make productive use of the US$ 30 million
the country already had invested in preliminary works. The proposed solution was the Reduced
Bumbuna Project eliminated the headrace works, the tailrace works and the shaft power house
foreseen in the base casel7/, opting instead for constructing the power house at the foot of the
dam. This solution also was to reduce the time necessary for the supply of the machinery. The
new design lowered the head of the dam from 120 meters to 70 meters, in line with the new
location of the powerhouse. Table 2 outlines the main features of the reduced version of the
Bumbuna project's Phase I. The cost of the Reduced Bumbuna scheme was estimated at US$ 100
million compared to US$ 192 million for the base case.
Table 2: Maior Design Features and Cost of the Reduced Version of Phase I of the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Proiect
Design Component                                        Description
Power House and Dam      Construction at the toe of the dam, thereby eliminating the need for headrace and
tailrace works. As a result, the dam head decreases from 120 m to 70 meters,
making it necessary to increase the dam crest from 231m to 241m.
Annual Energy Generation   280 GWh instead of 420 GWh for the base case.
Compensation for dam     Reduction of the dam crest width from 10 m to 4 m. Steeper slopes, which
raising cost             substantially reduce the area of the bituminous facing.
Installed Capacity       40 MW with possible extension to 70 MW.
Impact on total investment   Reduction from US$ 192 million in the base cost to about USS 100 million,
cost                     excluding preliminary works already executed at a cost of USS 20 million.
5.      IDA eventually became concerned that even the reduced version of the Bumbuna project
would pose too great a financial burden on the country's economy and recommended that the
Government defer any further investment in the project until the economy improved. 18/ The
tender documents for the Bumbuna Project, which the engineering consultants prepared in July
1984, reflect both the base case and the reduced version of Bumbuna's Phase I. A letter of
March 14, 1985 from the engineering consultants outlines the various engineering estimates and
essentially signifies the end of IDA's contribution to the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project.
16/    At the time of this evaluation, these costs were about USS 16.4 million.
17/    For the purpose of this analysis, the base case became Altemative I instead of the original design.
18/    Telex of June 14, 1984 from IDA to the Minister of Energy and Power.



-39-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Letter from OPEC Fund to the World Bank dated June 7, 1994
We are thankful for the completion report on the above mentioned project you
sent to our organisation. Although the PCR does not give much details on the project
implementation with respect to the rehabilitation works, management technical assistance
and training, the specific components cofinanced by the Fund, the report has been
reviewed and we are glad to note that the observations and conclusions made in the
document would guide our future operations formulations, not only in Sierra Leone but
also in other countries in which the Fund had operations. However, we wish to make the
following observations on the project and its implementation:
(a)   As a result of large build up of arrears, since the 1984 fiscal year, Fund
suspended disbursements on operations in the country in 1985.
(b)   Fund involvement in project was for the components, such as, provision of
foreign exchange cost of maintenance of Sierra Leone's National Power
Authority (NPA) diesel generators and distribution systems, which
involved the purchase of essential spare parts and materials, participation in
a programme that provided technical assistance, so as to strengthen the
management of NPA and financing of overseas training for up to 12
selected NPA executives.
(c)   Fund's total disbursement on the project amounted to US$3,987,184.50
out of a loan amount of US$5.00 million, or 79.74%. This leaves an
unutilised loan balance of US$1,012,815.50 or 20.26% of the project loan.
The level of disbursements for each of the project components, that is,
79.74% of the project loan are as follows:
US$              % Distr.
Rehabilitation of equipment   3,058,170.15            76.7
Technical Assistance           541,783.55             13.6
Training                        387,230.80             9.7



-40-                               Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
(d)   The closing date for withdrawals under the project loan was on 30th June,
1986. With the steady build up of repayment arrears by the Government of
Sierra Leone, Fund was not in a position to extend the closing date.
(e)   The NPA management made a proposal to the Fund, in a letter dated 13th
October 1987 for the utilisation of the unutilised loan amount. The
proposal was for the purchase of electricity distribution materials,
generation spares, kWh meters, tools and instruments, protective
equipments and walkie talkies through international shopping. The request
was not considered as a result of the arrears situation.
(f)    As of this date, the arrears build up by the Government of Sierra Leone
continues, as repayments due to the Fund were not settled. Disbursements
to on-going operations in the country stands suspended.
(g)   Fund would consider the purchase of spare parts as proposed by the
management of the NPA once suspension on disbursements is lifted.



