Document of                                   A &    
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3341-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
POWER SECTOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJE
May 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US$ = 1.18 Leones
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ESB    -  Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
KfW    -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NPA    -  National Power Authority
OAU    -  Organization of African Unity
OPEC   -  The OPEC Fund for International Development
SLEC   -  Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
Power Sector Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiary:   National Power Authority (NPA)
Amount:        SDR 4.5 million (US $5.0 million)
Terms:         Standard
On-Lending
Terms:        The Government would make the proceeds of the Credit available
to the newly created NPA as an equity contribution.
Project
Description:  The project, which would be carried out over two years, would
help rehabilitate existing thermal generation and distribution
system facilities, support institutional improvements in the
power sector and complete preparation of the Bumbuna hydro-
electric project. It would include the following components:
(a) spare parts and materials for the King Tom diesel
generating station and the power distribution system,
and equipment to improve the water cooling system of
the King Tom station;
(b) 10 man-years of expert assistance to help establish
and staff the NPA;
(q) overseas training for NPA staff;
(d) consultants' services to complete detailed engineering
for the proposed Bumbuna hydroelectric project;
(e)  the services of a Bumbuna Engineering Review Board;
and
(f) a study to assess the impact of the Bumbuna hydro-
electric project on the Freetown oil refinery.
The project's main long-term risk is that the Government's
policies with regard to the power sector's autonomy may be
altered in the future to the detriment of the sector's finan-
cial and technical performance. However, the Government has
taken several important measures recently which demonstrate
its commitment to long-term institutional improvements in the
power sector. An additional risk is that the Bumbuna hydro-
electric project, preparation of which would be concluded under
this project, may not be viable; however, since preparation
is only being carried to the point where a reasonably accurate
cost estimate of Bumbuna can be obtained, the risk is not great.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ million
Foreign    Local      Total
1.   Rehabilitation of
existing equipment               2.5        0.1        2.6
2.   Institutional support             2.3       0.4        2.7
3.   Completion of Bumbuna
preparation                      3.7        0.3        4.0
Base line costs                  8.5        0.8        9.3
Contingencies:
Physical                    0.4        0.1        0.5
Price                       1.1        0.1       1.2
10.0       1.0       11.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                    5.0        -         5.0
The OPEC Fund                          5.0         -        5.0
Government                              -        1.0        1.0
10.0       1.0       11.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
(US$ million)
IDA FY                 1983                1984
Annual                   3.0                2.0
Cumulative              3.0                 5.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD 16257



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE FOR A
POWER SECTOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDRs
4.5 million (US$5 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Power
Sector Engineering and Technical Assistance Project. The OPEC Fund would help
finance the project with a parallel loan of US$5 million. The OPEC loan, to
be administered by IDA, would be interest-free except for 0.75 percent service
charge and would have a 20-year maturity including a five-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Sierra Leone - Prospects for Growth and Equity"
(No. 3375-SL) of July 31, 1981 was distributed to the Executive Directors.
The following discussion is based on this economic report and on the findings
of a brief updating mission which visited Sierra Leone in February and March
1982. Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The economy of Sierra Leone is dualistic in character, a relatively
small modern sector co-existing alongside a large traditional agricultural
sector. For its source of income and growth, Sierra Leone relies heavily on
agriculture and mining, although in recent years depletion of the country-s
richest mineral deposits has led to a decline in their relative contribution
to the economy. Diamonds, the largest export earner, accounted for nearly
54 percent of exports in FY81.
4.        The agricultural sector, still largely outside the monetized economy,
provides livelihood for nearly 80 percent of the population. Its contribution
to GDP, however, is less than 30 percent, implying a low level of agricultural
productivity. Rice is the staple food and is grown by over 80 percent of the
farmers, primarily for subsistence; however, the country is facing increasing
rice shortages.  Coffee, cocoa and oil palm are the major export crops and
also the principal sources of cash income for the agricultural population.
5.        Sierra Leone-s social and economic infrastructure is not yet well
developed. Although the road transport network is generally adequate for its
present needs, there is an urgent need for improved maintenance and the
development of feeder roads. The country has good water resources, but the
hydroelectric power potential has yet to be tapped. Only about 12 percent of
the population has access to safe drinking water, mostly in the urban areas.
Health facilities are inadequate and infant and child mortality rates are
among the highest in Africa. The Government has in recent years invested
quite heavily in education, but primary and secondary school enrollment ratios
are still low (37 percent and 11 percent, respectively) and the country's
illiteracy rate remains high, at around 85 percent.



-2-
6.        The dualistic economic structure is reflected in income disparities
between the modern and traditional sectors. With a population of about
3.3 million, average per capita GNP in 1979 was estimated at about US$250.
The average rural per capita income is around US$120 while it averages about
US$600 in the urban centers. About 24 percent of the population lives in
urban areas. The urban migration rate (4.9 percent) is relatively low
compared with neighboring countries; however, approximately 30 percent of
the urban population has an income level below the urban absolute poverty
threshold estimated at around US$105.
Economic Performance
7.        Production and Income.  During its first decade of independence,
between 1962 and 1972, financial resources did not come under undue pressure
because of a reasonable rate of growth in the domestic economy. Throughout
this period, GDP grew at nearly 5 percent per annum, foreign exchange earnings
were adequate and there was a satisfactory growth in public revenues. Begin-
ning in 1972, however, this situation changed. Diamond output began to
decline, mainly as a result of the depletion of alluvial deposits; there was a
sharp increase in oil prices in 1973 coupled with rising import prices of
manufactured goods, and in 1975 the country lost its second largest source of
export earnings when the only iron ore mine closed due to rising production
costs and a declining iron ore grade. As a consequence, GDP declined by
4 percent in FY1976 and remained virtually stagnant thereafter, averaging less
than one percent per annum over the last five years. With a population growth
rate of about 2.5 percent per year, this resulted in a decline in an already
low per capita real income.
8.        Fiscal Performance.  The slowdown in economic growth and the erosion
of the export base which were experienced after 1973 were accompanied by a
marked deterioration in fiscal performance. While public revenues increased
an average of 12 percent a year between 1973 and 1979, public expenditures
grew about 21 percent per annum and the overall budget deficit widened from
about 6 percent of GNP to about 11 percent of GNP. Fiscal and monetary
expansion, financed largely by short-term external borrowing, led to ever
widening budgetary deficits, a further deterioration in the balance of pay-
ments and a substantial increase in the country's external debt burden.
During the last two years, the increase in expenditures was largely due to
civil service salary adjustments, expansion in the internal security forces
and extra-budgetary spending.  At the same time, revenues were affected by a
sharp decline in export tax collection. The overall budget deficit reached an
all time high of Le 139 million in FY 1981, or 11.5 percent of GDP.
9.        Balance of Payments.  The impact of stagnant production on the
balance of payments was masked until 1974 by favorable prices for Sierra
Leone's major exports. Consequently, the country's foreign exchange reserves
remained at satisfactory levels until the end of 1973. Difficulties began to
emerge in 1974 and 1975 when import prices rose sharply as a result of the oil
crisis and international inflation, while export performance remained modest.



-3-
During 1974 and later, the balance of payments began to deteriorate and show
increasing deficits. The balance of payments position was particularly
affected by oil price increases. The cost of petroleum imports jumped from
US$8 million in 1971 to about US$70 million in 1979, then declined to about
US$55 million in FY1981 but still claiming more than one third of the coun-
try s export earnings. While diamond prices remained strong between 1974 and
1979, the volume of Sierra Leone-s diamond output declined, and overall export
earnings showed only modest growth. The continued decline in physical exports
in 1980 and 1981 was aggravated by depressed prices. Imports, on the other
hand, rose sharply with rising import costs and expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to US$117
million in FY1981, or 11 percent of GDP, from about US$7 million in FY1974, or
1.5 percent of GDP.  Sierra Leone-s  net foreign exchange reserves, which
stood at around US$36 million at the end of 1974, have declined steadily and
remained low since then. In December 1980, gross official reserves amounted
to US$32 million of which only US$7.7 million, equivalent to one week's
imports, was freely disposable.
10.       Development Objectives and Development Effort.  The country's
first National Development Plan (FY1975-FY1979) was prepared with the assis-
tance of the UNDP and the UN Department of Technical Cooperation for Develop-
ment. The development strategy and objectives stated in the Plan and many of
its basic elements were well conceived and articulated. Priority was to be
given to the expansion of the productive capacity of the economy and to a
more equitable distribution of wealth and incomes. Unfortunately, the period
of the Plan coincided with the rapid depletion of the country's principal
source of foreign exchange earnings and a deterioration in the Government's
fiscal performance. These factors undercut the economic and financial resource
assumptions underlying the Plan. The Government's policies concentrated
increasingly on short-term financial problems and neglected the requirements
of longer-term structural adjustment. More recently, the Government began to
focus again on medium-term policies, and formulated a three-year public
investment program (FY1979-FY1981) as an interim measure, and initiated
preparation of a second National Development Plan. The public investment
program attempted to shift resources to increase commodity production, parti-
cularly in agriculture. The second Plan, which was scheduled to become
operational starting in FY1982, was expected to address the question of
structural adjustment and give emphasis to development of the productive
sectors while addressing income distribution objectives. However, continued
financial and economic deterioration has delayed preparation of the Plan.
11.       During the first Five-Year Plan, development spending by the public
sector amounted to Le 150 million (about 45 percent less than the Plan target,
which was based on an annual GDP growth rate of 6 percent, as compared to
an actual growth rate of 0.9 percent). Out of this total, about 22 percent
was spent on agriculture, 20 percent on road transport, 17 percent on energy,
15 percent on social services and 26 percent on other economic and general
services. Of these expenditures, 17 percent was financed by budgetary savings
while the remaining 83 percent came from external and internal borrowings.
Public development expenditure rose sharply in FY1980 to Le 126 million but
fell back to Le 72 million in FY1981.



-4-
Recent Measures for Economic Stabilization
12.       Sierra Leone has been facing a difficult economic situation for
the last two years. Having successfully implemented a standby arrangement
concluded with the IMF in November 1979, the Government signed an Extended
Fund Facility agreement that was put into effect in January 1981. However,
the Government-s inability to control expenditures and a sharp drop in export
earnings resulted in the abandonment of this agreement in mid 1981. FY1981
saw a substantial deterioration of the Government's fiscal position as well
as the balance of payments. New discussions between the IMF and the Govern-
ment started in February 1982 and are still underway.
13.       Sierra Leone's trade balance, which registered a deficit of Le 130
million in FY1979 and FY1980, further deteriorated in FY1981 to a deficit of
Le 155 million in spite of a 10 percent decline in commodity imports. Un-
favorable terms of trade caused exports to drop from Le 234 million in FY1980
to Le 176 million in FY1981. The overall balance of payments, which improved
substantially from a deficit Le 65 million in FY1979 to a deficit of Le 38
million in FY1980, deteriorated the following year, registering a record
deficit of Le 112 million.
14.       Primarily as a result of increasing budget deficits, monetary and
credit trends continued to be highly expansionary. Total domestic credit
increased by 26.4 percent in FY1980 and 33.9 percent in FY1981. Credit
to the Government grew by 35 percent in FY1980 and 37 percent in FY1981.
The expansion of domestic credit in the last two years was mainly financed
through increases in foreign liabilities. Foreign assets, which stood at
+Le 10 million in June 1979, dropped to -Le 164 million in June 1981.
15.       The FY1981 budget introduced new tax measures to yield an in-
cremental tax revenue of nearly Le 20 million, about 10 percent above the
estimated revenue of the previous year. The budgeted growth of recurrent
expenditures was limited to 15 percent which, with the current inflation rate,
implied a virtually unchanged level of Government activity in real terms. In
October 1980, a general wage and salary increase of 20-30 percent was granted
by the Government, the first general increase since 1978. Although this
increase was not provided for in the budget, it was accompanied by revenue
measures on import duties which partially offset the added expense. The
overall deficit was budgeted to be Le 80 million; however, revenues and grants
fell Le 14 million short while expenditures were Le 45 million above the
target, resulting in a deficit which was equivalent to 11.5 percent of GDP.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.       In the face of slow growth in public revenues and export receipts,
Sierra Leone has, since the mid-1970's, relied heavily or, foreign borrowing
to finance its capital expenditures. Total external public debt outstanding



-5-
increased by about US$132 million between 1975 and 1979. As of December 31,
1980 Sierra Leone's external public debt outstanding, including arrears of
principal, amounted to US$407 million of which US$349.4 million was disbursed.
The total debt outstanding and disbursed consisted roughly of 28.7 percent in
commercial credits, 36.6 percent bilateral loans and 34.7 percent loans and
credits from international institutions. As of December 1980, the Bank Group
held about 12.2 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt outstanding and
disbursed. Assistance from bilateral government sources came mostly from the
Federal Republic of Germany, the People's Republic of China, the Netherlands
and Japan.
17.       The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt
deteriorated sharply after 1975 as a result of increased reliance on supplier
credits. The average maturity of all new commitments declined from 16 years
(in the early 1970s) to around 5 years in FY1979 and continued to decline
since then. Foreseeing that it could not service its external debt, the
Government in November 1979 approached its creditor countries through the
Paris Club and in February 1980 negotiated a second debt relief agreement.
The total debt relief granted amounted to an estimated US$10 million for
FY1979 and US$32 million for FY1980. In spite of this debt relief, Sierra
Leone accumulated Le 4 million in arrears in FY1980. The virtual absence of
debt relief in FY1981 caused Sierra Leone to further increase its arrears to
nearly Le 63 million. The already unfavorable debt structure, added to the
accumulation of arrears and the limited prospects of increasing export earning,
will present difficulties in managing external resources in the foreseeable
future. Debt service on Bank Group loans and credits amounted to about 2.8
percent of Sierra Leone's total debt service liability in 1980.
Future Prospects
18.       The next two to three years are likely to be difficult for Sierra
Leone: the earliest revival of the economic activity is not expected before
the mid-1980's even with new investments in mining and continued investments
in agriculture. During this period, while export earnings may at best in-
crease modestly, the cost of imports may continue their upward trend, creating
pressures on the balance of payments. The balance of payments and the budget
will be burdened by debt service obligations falling due on short-term debt.
The Paris Club agreed to reschedule debt for 1980, and committed itself to
reschedule debt falling due in 1981 and 1982 on condition that Sierra Leone
*          continue a program with the IMF; this can now only be envisaged for FY1983.
In the medium and longer-term, Sierra Leone could both restore and sustain its
creditworthiness if the Government implements policies and investment programs
*          aimed at the structural transformation of the economy.  The future outlook of
the mining sector is difficult to assess because knowledge of the mineral
deposits is limited. There are good prospects for the Kimberlite underground
diamond mining project, but these may take some time to materialize; large
iron ore reserves have been discovered, but they are of low ore grade; mining
of rutile has just resumed and there are plans to expand bauxite production.
The proposed Bumbuna hydroelectric power project could provide lower cost
energy to support these activities. Intensification of efforts to increase



- 6 -
agricultural production could increase export earnings from cocoa, coffee and
palm oil, and raise the standard of living and incomes for the vast majority
of the country's people. Although the present balance of payments situation
and the country's debt profile would not justify lending on normal IBRD terms,
the country's low per capita income justifies extending IDA assistance. At
the same time, to ensure an adequate flow of foreign exchange resources for
the country's development during a period of budgetary stringency, it would be
appropriate to finance a portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
Bank Group Operations
19.       Bank and IDA operations in Sierra Leone to date have totalled
US$83.0 million. There have been five loans amounting to US$18.7 million
and ten credits totalling US$64.3 million. IFC has provided a loan of US$2.1
million to Sierra Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd. Five loans and four
credits are fully disbursed. Disbursement performance under Bank loans and
IDA credits has been quite satisfactory, with disbursements amounting to more
than 40 percent of loans and credits outstanding at the beginning of each
fiscal year from FY78 to FY81. This has been because foreign assistance,
including cofinanciers' contributions, have accounted for a high proportion of
project costs and because the Government has provided counterpart resources
promptly. Bank and IDA operations have been in support of agriculture (42
percent), education (12 percent), power (20 percent) highways (23 percent) and
technical assistance (3 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. In general, the execution of the ongoing projects has
been satisfactory.
Lending Strategy
20.       The principal objectives of Bank and IDA assistance to Sierra Leone
are to: (a) support improved economic management, including economic develop-
ment planning and project preparation; (b) stimulate the productive sectors
with a view to broadening the country's export base; (c) improve the country's
essential infrastructure, particularly roads and power, the inadequacy of
which presently constitutes a constraint upon the country's economic growth;
(d) raise the income levels and standard of living of the poorest section of
the population; and (e) broaden access to education, particularly in the
rural areas, and improve its quality.  At the same time, the Bank and IDA aim
to encourage the adoption of appropriate sector pricing policies and to
strengthen the management of public sector corporations wherever appropriate.
21.       Since iron ore production stopped in 1975, and the gradual decline
in the production of diamonds, it has become increasingly important to develop
the agricultural and manufacturing potential of the economy. Bank Group
financed agricultural development projects have provided improved extension



-7-
services, feeder roads and farm inputs to smallholder farmers. These activi-
ties were started in the Eastern area under the first project, and expanded
under the second project in the Northern area. A third agricultural develop-
ment project in the East and a fourth for the Northern area were approved by
the Executive Directors in FY81. These ongoing operations complement other
integrated agricultural development projects under way with the assistance of
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European
Economic Community (EEC). To ensure smooth assimilation of these projects
into the Ministry of Agriculture administration, a project is being prepared
for possible Bank Group support. A possible industrial development project to
assist small and medium scale enterprises is also being discussed.
22.       In infrastructure, the Bank Group's First Highway Project included
sections in the country's main trunk road system and a maintenance program,
as well as studies for further improvement of the road system. The Second
Highway Project aims at strengthening the country's capacity to maintain the
country's road network. A third project in the power sector, approved in
1977, helped finance urgently needed extension of electric power genera-
tion and distribution facilities in Freetown and several provincial centers.
23.       In the social sectors, two education projects are helping improve
and diversify education at the secondary level, and include teacher training,
modern curricula to increase the relevance of education to employment, rural
and non-formal training and educational planning and management improvement.
A third education project which, inter alia, would support the Government's
efforts to increase access to primary education in the rural areas and improve
its quality, has recently been appraised.
24.       To achieve its medium and longer-term development objectives, the
Government needs to improve its economic planning and project preparation
capability. In response to a request from the Government, IDA is financing a
Technical Assistance Project which, in cooperation with UNDP/TCD, is designed
to assist the Government formulate a second National Economic Development
Plan and prepare well conceived development projects in a number of priority
sectors.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, Sierra Leone has experienced
economic difficulties in the last few years. Improvement in the Government's
management of the economy will be an important determinant of the level of
future Bank Group operations in Sierra Leone.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Sector Organization
26.       With no domestic sources of petroleum, Sierra Leone is entirely
dependent on oil imports to meet its commercial energy needs, which are
mostly for transport and electricity generation. Imports amount to around
280,000 tons a year and claim about one-third of the country's export earnings.



Imported crude is refined for domestic consumption and bunker sales by the
Freetown refinery. Gas oil and fuel oil used to generate power account
for about 25 percent of the volume of crude oil imports. Fuelwood remains
the main source of domestic fuel, both in the urban and rural areas. Remain-
ing forest reserves cover only 4 percent of the land area and there is evi-
dence of decreasing fuelwood resources. Lignite deposits exist near Freetown
but have not yet been proven in sufficient quantity to justify construction
of a major thermal generation station. Sierra Leone has a large, untapped,
hydroelectric power potential which is conservatively estimated at about
1,150 MW.
27.       As in many other countries, there are no institutions in Sierra
Leone responsible for overall planning and policy formulation for energy.  The
Government has however taken steps to initiate an overall view of the sector
by obtaining the services of a UNDP financed advisor. Nevertheless, energy
related functions in the Government are dispersed with little coordination
among the various ministries concerned. The Ministry of Energy and Power is
charged with responsibility for petroleum storage and with supervising the
operation of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC), while the
Ministry of Trade and Industry oversees the refinery and in effect runs the
petroleum subsector. The Ministry of Economic Development is responsible for
developing the country-s hydroelectric potential and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Forestry is responsible for the fuelwood sector. To overcome
planning deficiencies and to assist the Government prepare a comprehensive
energy sector policy, the Bank Group has prepared an energy sector report,
which is being discussed with the Government.
The Power Sub-Sector
28.       The Government-s Strategy for Developing the Power Sub-Sector.
The Government-s present objectives for the power sector are to:
(i) develop the country's renewable energy resources, in particular
its hydroelectric potential;
(ii) develop and consolidate the institutional structure for planning,
constructing and operating thermal and hydroelectric power stations
and associated transmission and distribution systems;
(iii) adopt power tariffs which would permit the recovery of costs and
promote an efficient allocation of economic resources;
(iv) develop national managerial capabilities through systematic
training of manpower; and
(v) promote power sharing with neighboring countries over the longer
term through interconnection.
29.       Supply and Demand.  At the end of 1981, the country-s total installed
generating capacity was about 98 MW, of which 96 MW was thermal, and 2 MW
was accounted for by a small, seasonal, hydroelectric plant. Approximately



-9-
40 percent of total capacity (38 MW) is privately owned and serves the mining
industry, while the remaining 60 percent (60 MW) is operated by SLEC, a
Government-owned corporation established in 1964 under the Bank supported
First Power Project as the sole commercial supplier of electricity to the
public.
3U.       To supply the Western area, which includes Freetown, the capital,
SLEC operates three diesel electric stations with a combined capacity of
around 44 MW and a present firm capacity of around 31 MW, and the seasonal
2 MW hydroelectric unit owned by the Guma Valley Water Authority. In addition,
SLEC operates a number of Government-owned diesel plants with a combined
capacity of 15 MW in the major provincial towns outside the Western area.
Peak demand in the Western area reached 23 MW in 1981 and is expected to
grow at an annual rate of 4.6 percent per annum to about 35 MW by 1988. In
1984, SLEC's Western area's firm capacity will be reduced (by equipment
retirement) to 26 MW, which will be insufficient to meet demand beyond this
date. As an interim measure, SLEC proposes to install a 9.2 MW slow speed
diesel electric unit to complement the two units installed in 1979; this, and
cooling water system modifications and rehabilitation of existing older units,
should be sufficient to meet the forecast demand of 35 MW in 1988.  To meet
demand in the Western area beyond 1988 and provide power for the mining
industry, the Government proposes to start harnessing the country's hydroelec-
tric power potential by developing the first phase of the Bumbuna hydroelec-
tric project.
31.       In 1971, UNDP financed a study of the power market in Sierra Leone
and of its hydroelectric potential, including major and some minor development
sites within the country's boundaries. This study ranked major sites in terms
of cost per kWh to be produced and formed the basis for selecting a project to
be included in a power development plan. From 19 major sites, three were
selected for detailed examination. The principal criteria for selection were
potential output and geographical location in relation to forecast demand,
cost, and future potential with regard to further hydroelectric developments
on the same river system. From this analysis, the Bumbuna Falls project
on the Seli River, about 200 km from Freetown, was shown to be the most
economical initial development. A decision on whether to proceed with this
project was however postponed because of the country's difficult economic
condition at the time. In 1972, an Italian/Canadian contractors' consortium
commissioned a feasibility study with the intention of mobilizing financial
resources to carry it out on a turnkey basis. The study was completed but it
was not found possible to finance the project.
32.       In 1975, the Government engaged an Italian consultant to review
the 1972 consortium's study, update the information on hydrology and the
power load forecasts, and compare the Bumbuna project with alternatives to
meet the country's long-term power requirements. Following a review of this
and previous studies by IDA in 1975, the Government commissioned, under terms
of reference prepared with IDA assistance, a full feasibility study of the
first stage of the Bumbuna project. A consortium of Swiss, Italian and Sierra
Leonean consultants completed the feasibility study in 1980.



- 10
33.       These proposals were reviewed by the Electricity Supply Board of
Irelend (ESB) in 1981, which confirmed the choice of the Bumbuna site and the
proposed phased development.
34.       Based on the results of the feasibility study and the review by
ESB, the Government decided, in agreement with IDA, to continue preparing
the first stage of the Bumbuna project and instructed the consultants to
prepare detailed engineering. Funding for the feasibility study and detailed
engineering was provided under Credit 734-SL, but funding for detailed
engineering proved to be insufficient due to inflation, additions to the scope
of work, and delays. In 1979, the OPEC Fund agreed to provide supplementary
financing (OPEC Loan 121P) to continue the detailed engineering, but this
again proved insufficient to complete the work.  Faced with a foreign exchange             9
shortage, the Government has been unable to cover the shortfall and, as a
result, payment for past work carried out by the consultants is outstanding.
Preparation work is now 97 percent complete; the proposed project would
finance the cost of finishing detailed engineering so that a firm base for
estimating the cost of Bumbuna may be available. This in turn would make a
full economic evaluation of Bumbuna possible. If the results of this evalua-
tion are positive, the Government could then seek, with IDA's assistance,
foreign financing for the Bumbuna hydroelectric project.
35.       SLEC supplies some 20,000 customers in the Western area of Sierra
Leone. Its power production increased from 98 GWh in 1978 to 133 GWh in 1981,
an annual growth rate of 10.7 percent. However, this substantial rate of
growth reflected: (a) suppressed demand due to insufficient generating
capacity prior to 1978; (b) underpricing of electricity and (c) ineffective
billing and collection practices which further contributed to wasteful con-
sumption. In 1981, industrial and commercial users accounted for about 50
percent of consumption, residential users for 21 percent, and system and
unaccounted for losses for the remaining 29 percent. The latter has been
rising since 1977 and can be attributed to a combination of factors: SLEC-s
inability to prosecute fraudulent users of power, and its ineffective billing
and collection system compounded by lack of qualified staff. Improvements in
the billing and collection system would be initiated under this project while
the act establishing the new power authority (para. 41) authorizes the prose-
cution of fraudulent users of power.
Institutional and Financial Management
36.       Organization and Management.  SLEC was a largely autonomous corpora-
tion run on commercial lines up to 1969, when its senior management was
changed following serious industrial labor unrest. Thereafter its financial
and technical performance declined. The oil crisis of 1973 accelerated its
financial deterioration as SLEC was not permitted to pass on higher oil prices
to power consumers in the form of higher tariffs. In 1974, the Government
abolished SLEC's Board and vested management responsibility in a newly-created
Ministry of Energy and Power, which retained a foreign consulting firm to
provide day-to-day management. Its team comprised a general manager, a chief
engineer in charge of generation, transmission, and provincial systems, and
a financial controller; Sierra Leonean counterparts were to be trained to



- 11 -
eventually take over these functions. The counterparts (other than for the
financial controller) have assumed responsibility for SLEC's activities in
anticipation of a scheduled departure of the expatriate management team in
mid 1982. The present expatriate financial controller will be retained
pending appointment of the technical assistance team as SLEC has been unable
to employ an accountant of the required caliber to act as counterpart.
SLEC has had difficulty over the past five years in recruiting and/or retain-
ing sufficiently competent middle-management accounting staff. As a result,
the expected benefits and improvements in accounting anticipated as a result
of the previous Credit have not come about. To strengthen financial manage-
ment and control of commercial activities, the project would provide for
international recruitment of a financial controller.
37.       Training and Manpower Development.  Credit 734-SL required SLEC to
implement a satisfactory staff development and training program; apart from
the appointment of counterparts to the expatriate management team, little
tangible progress was made. To help overcome SLEC's training deficiencies,
KfW has concluded negotiations with Government to finance the construction of
a training center, teaching equipment, and the services of instructors for the
training of technicians, skilled and unskilled labor. To complement KfW's
program, the project would provide training overseas for up to twelve managers.
Training would take place by secondment to selected operating utilities in
other developing countries, and would emphasize practical, work-related
experience.
38.       Financial Performance.  Notwithstanding the substantial institu-
tional and administrative support provided under Credit 734-SL, SLEC's
financial performance declined due to a combination of factors; poor financial
control, especially evident in the billing and collection systems was one such
factor. As a result of accounting staff shortages, annual accounts were not
prepared for FY76 and FY77, while for FY78 only a statement of affairs was
prepared. Accounts were prepared for FY79 but were heavily qualified by the
auditors; the proyisional accounts for FY80, which were prepared by the
auditors, show no marked improvements in the timeliness or effectiveness of
accounting. The FY81 accounts are now being prepared with the assistance of
consultants financed under Credit 734-SL. Accounting staff shortages also
prevented SLEC from revaluing its assets by March 31, 1979 or revising its
depreciation policies by March 31, 1978, as had been agreed upon with the
Association under Credit 734-SL.
39.       The FY80 accounts record SLEC's worsening financial position.
Revenues for the year amounted to Le 12.3 million which, after fuel costs
(representing 54 percent of revenues), other operating expenses, depreciation
and provision for bad debts, resulted in an operating loss of Le 0.9 million.
SLEC's rate of return on historical net fixed assets was negative; it had thus
not met the rate of return target of ten percent on net assets in operation
agreed upon under Credit 734-SL. Absence of tariff increases over the past
five years, aggravated by poor financial performance, has forced SLEC to rely
increasingly on the Government to subsidize fuel costs and meet its debt
servicing obligations. However, as these subsidies have been unpredictable
and insufficient, SLEC's operating reliability has declined and consumers have
experienced frequent power outages.



12 -
40.       Since abolition of its Board in 1974, SLEC's tariffs have not
reflected economic costs. In 1981, SLEC's average tariff was Le cents
ll/kWh (US cents 9.4/kwh) while the cost of fuel had risen to Le cents
15.6/kWh (US cents 13.2/kWh) following a substantial price increase of 60
percent at the beginning of the year. A consultants' study carried out in
1981 recommended a substantial increase in tariffs. The Government chose a
phased approach to tariff increases and as a first step authorized, effective
February 1, 1982, a general power tariff increase of 75 percent and the
introduction of a fuel adjustment clause based on ex-refinery fuel prices
prevailing in November 1981. These increases, which raised the average tariff
to Le cents 19.3/kWh (US cents 16.3/kWh), will enable revenues to cover
the bulk of operating costs but not debt service; continued Government sub-
sidies to the power sector will therefore be needed until the second phase of
the tariff increase--calling for an adjustment of 15 percent--is carried out
in mid-1983. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that until this tariff increase is put into effect, it would provide
grants to enable the sector to meet the financial rates of return agreed upon
(Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and para. 44).
41.       National Power Authority.  To assist the Government develop the
power sector, ESB was commissioned in 1980 by the UNDP, with IDA as executing
agency, to study the organizational and financial requirements of the sector.
In 1981, as a result of ESB's proposals, the Government decided to create a
new, autonomous, institution with broad responsibility for the power sector
which would replace SLEC. The necessary legislation to create the National
Power Authority (NPA) was enacted in February 1982. An eight-man Board of
Directors, including a Chairman, has been appointed; most Directors are
prominent members of the commercial and academic communities. The NPA's
Chief Executive, and a senior civil servant, will be ex-officio members.
42.       NPA's organization would consist of a chief executive officer and
general manager who would report to the Board. He would be supported by a
deputy general manager, a project engineer and a chief financial officer.
The deputy general manager would be SLEC's present assistant general manager
and he would continue being responsible for operating the existing thermal
generation and distribution facilities. The project engineer would be res-
ponsible for implementing the Bumbuna project when it is decided to carry out
that project and he would have a full-time Sierra Leonean counterpart engineer.
The chief financial officer would be responsible for the financial control and
management of NPA, including the Bumbuna project.. The positions of chief
executive officer and general manager, chief financial officer, and project
engineer would be filled by international recruitment.
43.       Based on successful experience elsewhere in West Africa, the
preferred arrangement for international recruitment is to contract an
operating utility to provide a team with the required disciplines and ex-
perience. Such a team, consisting of a chief executive, a project engineer,
and a chief financial officer supported by a financial controller for the
operations branch of NPA (previously SLEC) and a project accountant for



- 13 -
Bumbuna, would be provided under the project. The team would have qualifica-
tions, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment satis-
factory to IDA (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
44.       Since legislation to create NPA has already been approved by Parlia-
ment, it is expected that SLEC's assets and liabilities will be incorporated
into those of NPA on July 5, 1982. On the basis of SLEC's preliminary
financial statements for FY82, financial forecasts for NPA have been prepared
for FY83-86; these show that action to reduce costs and/or increase revenues
will be required to make NPA financially viable notwithstanding the 75
percent power tariff increase introduced in February 1982. Considering that
tariffs are high in absolute terms and that SLEC has already experienced
t          collection difficulties, a further tariff increase might not be possible in
the near future. However, the Government could in the meantime improve the
financial situation of NPA by requiring the Freetown oil refinery to adjust
the price it charges for fuel used to generate power so that it reflects
prevailing free market prices. At the present time, the power sector pays
substantially more than free market prices for its fuel. To improve the power
sector's financial situation, the Government and NPA provided the following
assurances during negotiations:
(i) As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit, (a) the
Government would cause the Freetown oil refinery to adjust the price
of fuel supplied to NPA to correspond to the free market price for
similar fuel and (b) NPA would change the base oil price in the fuel
adjustment clause to correspond to the free market price at the time
of the initial adjustment (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement);
(ii) The Government and NPA would ensure that NPA applies the fuel
adjustment clause to its electricity tariffs (Sections 3.03 and
3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.06 of
the draft Project Agreement);
(iii) NPA would raise its tariffs by at least 15 percent no later than
July 1, 1983 (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement) and for
its fiscal year ending March 31, 1984 take all measures, including
adjustments in its tariffs, to achieve a rate of return of ten
percent on its average fixed assets in operation and thereafter
achieve a rate of return of 8 percent per annum on revalued fixed
assets in operation (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement);
and
(iv) NPA would revise its depreciation policies by March 31, 1983
and revalue its assets by March 31, 1984 (Section 4.05 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Bank Group Experience in the Power Sector
45.       The Bank Group has provided two loans to SLEC and one credit in
which SLEC was the beneficiary. The First Power Project--Loan 338-SL of



- 14 -
August 18, 1964--helped finance the construction of the King Tom generation
station near Freetown and related distribution facilities. The Second Power
Project--Loan 553-SL of August 5, 1968--helped increase power generation
capacity at King Tom and in two provincial towns, and further expanded distri-
bution facilities. The Project Performance Audit Report of May 27, 1977 (Sec.
M77-456) for the Second Power Project concluded that construction had been
implemented satisfactorily, though with some delay and cost overruns. Other
objectives of the project were not achieved however: energy sales had been
substantially lower than forecast and system losses had increased. Plant
outages and increases in operating costs not compensated by tariff increases,
had resulted in poor financial performance. These factors and progress under
the Third Power Project, for which Credit 734-SL was granted on September 29,
1977, are discussed in the preceding paragraphs.
The Bank Group's Role in the Power Sector
46.       To assist the Government to overcome the sector's present constraints
and to achieve its sector objectives, IDA support has been requested to:
(i)  strengthen the commercial organization for power distribution to
make it more efficient;
(ii)  establish NPA, so that in the event that the Bumbuna project proves
to be economically viable, there will be-an institution capable of
carrying out that complex project and of managing the power sector;
(iii)  carry out all the necessary engineering, financial and economic
work preliminary to developing the first stage of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project with an initial capacity of 71.5 MW.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       A Credit and Project Summary may be found at the beginning of this
report. The project was appraised in October/November 1981 and since its main
elements are engineering and technical assistance, no staff appraisal report
has been prepared. Negotiations took place in Washington on April 30 and
May 3, 1982; the Sierra Leone delegation was led by Mr. V. A. W. Nylander,
Financial Secretary, and included The Honorable Dauda Kamara, the Ambassador
to the United States, Dr. T. F. Hope, Chairman of the NPA, and other Govern-
ment officials.
Project Description
48.       The project, which would be carried out over a two year period,
would help rehabilitate existing thermal generation and distribution system
facilities, support institutional improvements in the power sector and com-
plete preparation of the Bumbuna project. It would include the following
components:



- 15 -
(a) Rehabilitation of existing facilities
(i) essential spare parts and materials to maintain SLEC's
existing diesel generators and distribution systems; and
(ii) equipment to improve the cooling water system at the King
Tom station so as to maximize its power output.
(b) Institutional changes and training
(i)  about 10 man-years of technical assistance, over a two year
period, to strengthen the management of NPA by providing a
team of expatriates with the required disciplines and experi-
ence; and
(ii) about 5 man-years of training in foreign utility companies for
up to twelve NPA executives and managers to complement in-house
training for technicians.
(c) Completion of the preparation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project
(i)  a study to assess the economic impact of the Bumbuna hydro-
electric project on the Freetown oil refinery;
(ii)  consultant services to complete detailed engineering so that
there may be a firm base for estimating Bumbuna's cost and
assessing its economic and financial viability. If the project
proves viable, the consultants would help evaluate bids for
the main contracts for civil works and engineering; and
(iii) the services of an Engineering Review Board, consisting of
up to four internationally recognized experts, to advise the
Government on technical and safety aspects of the project.
49.       Impact of the Bumbuna Project on the Freetown Oil Refinery.  The
thermal system serving the Western area currently consumes 50,000 to 60,000
tons of oil products purchased from the Freetown oil refinery, representing
20-25 percent of total output. If the Bumbuna project is carried out, the
power sector's demand is expected to drop to less than 10,000 tons per annum.
As this reduction in domestic oil consumption could adversely affect the
oil refinery, the justification of Bumbuna should take into account any
loss resulting from reduced demand from the refinery. The proposed study
would assess the economic impact of the Bumbuna project on the Freetown oil
refinery. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the study would
be made available to IDA no later than December 31, 1982 (Section 2.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
50.       Engineering Review Board for Bumbuna Project.  As part of the
proposed project an Engineering Review Board, consisting of up to four
internationally recognized hydroelectric power experts of various specialties,



- 16 -
would be established to advise on all technical aspects of the Bumbuna
project, including a review of engineering and bid documents and advice during
construction. The proposed credit would finance the services of this Board up
to the commencement of construction; further financial support would be
provided under subsequent credits. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that an Engineering Review Board would be appointed by September 30,
1982 with terms of reference acceptable to IDA (Section 2.01(b) of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
51.       Total costs are estimated at US $11.0 million of which US $10.0
million (91 percent) are foreign costs.  Cost estimates are based on 1981
year-end prices and are net of duties and taxes; a breakdown may be found in
the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. The estimate
of consultant costs for the Bumbuna project is based on the terms of their
existing contract updated to take into account increased work, inflation and
delays. The estimated cost of services of the Engineering Review Board is
based on the equivalent of US $15,000 per man-month, which reflects recent
experience in West Africa. The cost of the oil refinery study is based on
consultant services of approximately six man-months at US $15,000 per month,
including travel and subsistence expenses. The cost of equipment and materials
to rehabilitate SLEC's facilities has been based on the cost of such supplies
in the past, adjusted for inflation and/or recent quotations, while the cost
of the water cooling improvements is based on SLEC's estimates and local price
enquiries; all estimates have been reviewed by IDA. Technical assistance
cost estimates are based on US $15,000 per man-month; this cost is appropriate
given the senior caliber of staff required and recent experience in West
Africa. Training costs have been estimated at US$20,000 per trainee-year
which includes fares, overseas subsistence, and training grants. A physical
contingency of 5 percent has been provided, while price contingencies average
10 percent per year.
52.       The foreign exchange cost of US $10.0 million would be financed
in parallel by IDA and the OPEC Fund. IDA's credit of US $5.0 million equi-
valent would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of completing
the preparation of the Bumbuna project, the Engineering Review Board, the oil
refinery study and the water cooling improvements. Retroactive financing of
US $1.5 million, to cover consultancy charges incurred between March 31, 1981
and December 31, 1981 to prepare the detailed engineering for Bumbuna, is
recommended. As noted earlier, the Government has had insufficient foreign
exchange to meet these costs.
53.       The OPEC Fund loan to the Government of US $5.0 million would
finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of rehabilitating SLEC's
generation and distribution facilities, technical assistance and training.
54.       Local costs of US $1.0 million would be for residential accommoda-
tion of technical assistance personnel, office accommodation, utilities,
vehicle operating expenses, subsistence expenses, and support staff. These
would be met by the Government.



- 17 -
55.       To carry out the Bumbuna hydroelectric project, currently estimated
to cost about US $390 million equivalent including contingencies and working
capital of about US $30.0 million, and to take on the responsibility of
operating the power transmission and distribution networks, NPA will require
an equity base of at least US $90.0 million equivalent. To start building up
NPA's capital base, the proceeds of the IDA credit and the OPEC Fund loan
would be passed on to NPA by the Government as an initial equity contribution.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (Section 3.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
56.       The project would be carried out between 1982 and 1984 by the NPA.
Pending recruitment of NPA's executive staff, the Board, through the Chairman,
would continue to monitor progress.  The engineering consultants would resume
work to finalize detailed engineering of the Bumbuna project for bidding
documents, the study to assess the impact of the Bumbuna project on the oil
refinery would be commissioned, and the Engineering Review Board appointed.
The results of the consultants' work, which would be reviewed by the Engineer-
ing Review Board with the refinery study, would enable the Government and IDA
to evaluate the economic and financial viability of Bumbuna by late 1982 or
early 1983.
57.       NPA would rehabilitate the thermal generation facilities and the
distribution system, and would improve the water cooling system at the King
Tom generating station with contractor/supplier assistance. Lists of spare
parts and maintenance materials have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable.
Procurement
58.       The preparation of the Bumbuna project would be completed by the
consultants appointed under IDA Credit 734-SL; if it is established that
Bumbuna is economically and financially viable their services would be
retained to assist with bid evaluation. These services, with the cost of
advertising for bids, would be financed by IDA.
59.       The four members of the Engineering Review Board would be hydro-
electric project experts of international repute and would be appointed
according to Bank guidelines on the use of consultants. NPA would submit a
list of candidates and proposed contract arrangements for IDA to review and
approve. The consultants to undertake the study on the impact of the Bumbuna
project on the oil refinery would also be appointed according to Bank guide-
lines on the use of consultants.
60.       In view of the specialized nature of the spare parts and equipment
required for the project, procurement of goods would be by international
shopping after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers. Should
civil works be required for the King Tom station cooling water system, they
would be contracted on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to IDA, as the small size of contracts would not justify inter-
national competitive bidding. Foreign contractors operate in Sierra Leone.



- 18 -
Disbursement
61.       The Credit would be disbursed to cover 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for: (a) consultant services to complete the preparation of
Bumbuna, including bid advertising and evaluation, (b) services of the Engi-
neering Review Board, (c) consultant services for the study on the oil refinery
and (d) equipment and materials for water cooling improvements at the King Tom
generating station.  Disbursements would be fully documented and are expected
to begin during the first quarter of FY83 and be completed by June 30, 1985.
Project Benefits and Risks
62.       The project would assist the Government to develop the power sector
in three areas. Firstly, by improving the reliability of services and the
sector's financial performance through (a) rehabilitation and overhaul of
existing thermal generation units and the distribution system, (b) training
to strengthen management capability, (c) technical assistance to improve
financial management including cost control and revenue collection, and (d)
adoption of a tariff policy based on full economic costs. Secondly, through
technical assistance to fill key executive positions in the newly created NPA
which will be responsible for consolidating and developing the power sector,
including the country's hydroelectric power potential. Thirdly, by financing
the completion of the preparation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project. Prima
facie, there is reason to believe that this project, which would be the
country's first major effort to tap its hydroelectric potential, would be of
significant benefit by substituting crude oil imports now refined in Sierra
Leone to produce fuel used to generate electricity. Completion of the prepara-
tion of the Bumbuna project and appointment of the Engineering Review Board
would enable the Government, IDA and other potential cofinanciers to assess
the hydroelectric project's justification, investment requirements and risks
before further commitments to it are made. To complete the assessment, the
project would include a study to evaluate the economic impact of Bumbuna on
the Freetown oil refinery.
63.       The main long-term risk to the project is that the Governments-
policies with regard to the power sector's autonomy may be altered in the
future. This could result in the loss of autonomy to determine tariffs
on the basis of costs, recruit staff on conditions of service which would
attract suitable people, prosecute fraudulent users of electricity, or
purchase fuel at competitive prices. However, the Government has recently
taken several important measures which demonstrate its commitment to institu-
tional improvements in the power sector: it authorized a substantial increase
in power tariffs earlier this year to improve the finances of the sector, and
created the National Power Authority with statutory autonomy on financial and
operational matters, including the power to establish its own tariffs and an
independent Board of Directors. The risk therefore appears acceptable.
With respect to the completion of the preparation of the Bumbuna project,
there would be the risk that Bumbuna might not be economically justified
or, if it is, that it may not be possible to raise sufficient concessionary
financing to carry it out. However, since preparation is only being carried
to the point where a reasonably accurate cost estimate can be obtained for
purposes of economic and financial assessment, the risk is not great.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Sierra Leone and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and NPA and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special features of
the Credit are referred to in the text and listed in Annex III; special
conditions of effectiveness are that the Government cause the Freetown oil
refinery to adjust the price of fuel used by NPA to generate power to corre-
spond to the free market price for similar fuel and that this price be used as
the base price for purpose of the fuel adjustment clause in NPA's electricity
tariff.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 27, 1982



- 20 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
SIERRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SC. IM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            71.7/                                   HOST RECENT          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     27.7                 1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..       150.0    250.0                238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        30.6       127.3     89.1                 70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    2164.7      2692.1   3381.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   13.0        18.1     23.8                 17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                         30.2        37.5     47.2                 27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND       79.9        97.9    118.8                 73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           41.7        43.0      44.0                44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                           55.0        53.8     52.8                 52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3         3.2       3.2                 2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8         2.2       2.5                 2.6                    2.8
URBAN                                5.2         5.5       5.6                 6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.8        45.7     45.5                 46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.6        21.9      18.5                19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.0       3.0                 3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)      ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            98.0        99.0     82.0                 89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     85.0        96.0      93.0                90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAIS PER DAY)            43.0        47.0     48.0                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0        14.0      17.0                17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       41.0        32.2     25.4                 27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      37.2        42.4     46.8                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..         ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        12.0       ..                 23.9                   27.4
URBAN                                           75.0                          55.0                   74.3
RURAL                                 ..         1.0       ..                 18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..        ..                 26.2
URBAN                                 ..         ..        ..                 63.5
RURAL                                 ..         ..        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           20421.4    18067.7        ..              31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5904.0/c   3802.0        ..               3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1311.8      1095.2       ..               1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                              288.9       361.1        ..               272.8                  423.0
RURAL                                 ..         ..        ..               1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         6.5
URBAN                                 ..         5.7
RURAL                                 ..         6.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..         2.1/d     ..
RURAL                                 ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..        ..
URBAN
RURAL                                2.0/ c



- 21 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
SIERRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLIYENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  23.0         33.0      37.0                   56.4                      73.7
MALE                  30.0         40.0       45.0                  70.7                      96.8
FEMALE                15.0         26.0       30.0                  50.1                      79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0      11.0                   10.0                      16.2
MALE                   3.0         12.0       15.0                  13.6                      25.3
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0        7.0                   6.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (l OF SECONDARY)   9.0            2.0        2.0_/                 8.0                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         32.0      32.0                   46.5                      36.2
SECONDARY                           17.0         20.0       19.0/g                25.5                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          7.0         15.0         ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          8.7       6.0                    2.9                      32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PUPULATION                           4.3         14.9      98.3                   32.8                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2/_        1.1       4.7                    1.9                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                    6.0         16.7       10.0                   2.8                      20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            0.1         ..                   1.2                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        910.5       1055.6    1243.9
FIMALE (PERCENT)                   36.6         35.8      34.9                   34.1                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               78.0         71.0       65.6                  80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.0         15.0      18.6                    8.6                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.1         39.2       36.8                  41.7                      37.2
MALE                                  54.7         51.5       48.8                  54.3                      47.1
FEMALE                                30.0         27.5       25.2                  29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.2        1.3                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF' PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.8/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           64.17 '      ..                    .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          4.5/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.17         .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     105.0                  136.0                     381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      75.0                   84.5                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                 ..           ..     198.0                   99.1                     334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      40.0                   61.2                     137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  39.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0                   68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1967;  /e 1963;  /f Population; /g 1975.
May, 1981



- 22 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DFOINITIONS OF SOCIA, INDICATORS
fates:  Alth-ugh the data are drawn from  sources generally judged the most aut.hritlai-e and reliable, it ahould also be noted that they any tat be inter-
natioonsly ranynenhia beoaoae of the look of stsrdardoo ed deftoitioes and cnonepts used by bdifferen - oI          ri.et on collecttig the data.  The dota see, nose-
theless, usefol to descriho rdern  of nagnitode, iodtcntetrends, and ohearneriee  -reeat snoIor ditfenerrees hetteene rotrirs.
The refer r geups ore (i  t .      the  at         rap  f th   ubst cuntry and (2) a. e.try group with somewhat higher outrage iora.e than the traetry sroup
of the eubjeot country (earept f_r  Capittl Sorplun Oil Etp-rtees  group  ater  'rMiddle I-ooms Ntoth Afrido at        d Middle dam" le tosen beoauon  of stronger
so-ob-oultural offiniti-e).  Or ohs refereo-e group date the averages are pryulationteeghtnd ar-rtbantr  acorn  fur otch ifdicot-r and thorn only abet
joetrity of the  .countrie  it a frayp hbe  dnto  for thne tndioaoer.  Sitno  the  -o-erage of countrien saore  the litra porn  deyends or the  .v.lahbilty of data
mud bi  nor atifoom, cautine rat the exercised in reloting aVerages  f onet indiboaor to onother.  Th-e-eaverages Oct otly useful t1    on i-arning the vae of
one indlcator at a sine aomog tie roounry and reference groups.
LfND AREA (rhoasund sq.kA.)                                                                       Prpolotuon par hd-ittel  ted - tutl, urbar., ard rnral - Popalultin(total,
Total - T-tal turfare area romprining lard area ard ailmud nococt.                                unbar, and rural) dividad by thinr nesrchtina  -beh  of h-spital reds
Agrrooltooml - Estisane of agtriultucal area used ttp orartly or pereunestly                      available be publtc and prurane Retral and npet airrod hospilal and le-
fur  -crps, pastures, market end kftche- gardens or to lie fall-w; T97t dath .                  habilitatnon certert.  lontt     are e         ptovidi- prtanentlay   uatoed
by as beget urn  hysbln   Etnrlbtharnte  prrn~idig Pr,tohpa-lyna-r-
CtR  PtR CAPITA (lS$) - GNP per topita  estlEares of currnen  me'Ket prloen, cal-                    dinl  eare are nut ic_tded.  Rurol ioepitals, bherv,or  ifrbade health
ralated by  asae  -oenensbin Eethe d as WIrld lark Atlas (1977-79 bhais); .960,                    and nediyal orenter  not paeonent11l  stuffed by a phyailuar (bht by a
1970, snd 1979 data.                                                                              =edical  mesistant, torte,  htdr'fr, etc.) which offer ir-patieet arremmo-
dtandi a tfyrvide a li'tted  -ange of medital  oaclitie.  Fur atatis-
ENERGY CONSUtPTION PIR CAPITA  -           -Atnnal -oreetpetin of ousserohal energy (coal            tioa: purprectorhan boupenItl  ilude tAhd   pranolpah/generel brupill,
and lignite, rerrom,  eacal Eam g nd h               ud ydr-    .ear   d getheh l elec-           and roal hoapital, loanl or reral h          tels end _edual and   -erty
trtciny) is kilbgrr.s of -orl eqiui-lent per -opit.; 1960, 1970, a-d 1979                         renters.  Specisliaed h-spitals  are incIlded only order tonal.
dono.                                                                                           Ad=issions ten fospbnal Bed - Total  _nbe of adeisaioes to I r discharges
from htypitels divided by the ta=ben of bode.
PCPUI,ATION AiD VITAl. STATISTICS
tan,.  Puopuatien, Mld-Tear (thuonouds) - An of J3 py 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                 F.USING
darn.                                                                                         deeaee Sire if toutehold (persons pec rinolcld) - rural, arbor, ind  rol-
Utbet Puralarion (pecent of  iotal) - Ratit  of uch- ur  total ppopatuin;                         A heasebold consists of a group of tihbvidool nwho shorn living quat-es
different definiton   of urban arena may affeot -opparnbility of data                           and their ain otal.  A bhuroer no Lodge- ray oray nor be inlulded be
among rururien; 1960, '970, and 1979 dato.                                                      ohe household fri -atifstical parposen.
Populotton   rojeactrrns                                                                        Average anther of persons ten vatba.z- gty .urbon, oad reral- Arerage oag         -
Pprlattrt in year C110 - Current population prje-titors ore bated on -1980                       er af perso-r  per  ure. in all urban, ard tac-i  -occpied t.o..eti.ona
tonal pupolunben by age and sea ard their nortality and fertility  rates.                     dwellirgn, respetpai-ly.  Dfetlllngseeclude nao-prmaene-t str -rtares and
Peaojmotion par.emtere  fur nortaluty rants to=prite of nere  levels assum-                   unoaupind parts.
tog litfe eepectancy an birth anoratogintS wth sncouty's pecrcapit a furors                 Atoness no fEietoticit  (percent of dveelinne) - total, uchur, and cacti -
ovl, ande fenle bif   onp lnno   uairlieLogu   77.r.), yeas   The,                          AZo  encbaa   oltgsnt   lrebtyb  Iin    ueaa
fev-,      fer         if rare talso hov  nroe  lerels at  u=irg declee in                   of tota ,  rce n. and r r c el fwalgs ertsp lct olt.
fertility acrording Co Intone bevel and pest foolly pltaning perfocrogne.
Earl ourntry ib  then  .a.igned rue  df rhbee tire ntbbneatoont of  -crality             EDUCATION
and fertlitty  trends for projeetion  parpunes.                                             Adiostad Eraolbeect lutre
Stani-naru  Populaton - In a sotamioary popolation there In no groweth  .nor                    PrImary sthonl - tntr.1  male and ferale - tross ttotl, sale and fcrale
ohm birth cute Is equel to the doith rare, nd atlso the oge anenoare re-                        reeblsDenn  of alt ages at the poitooy level as pereentages of respefti-e
eains nonatonr.   Thin in achieved only a   f ter fertility races debline no                    prary s otol-age populantion; n-oaoll  includen childr-en aged b-11
the reylacerentevel of   l: nr   repro-d ttion rare, then eech geneescban                       years bat edjunted fre differenr lengths of primary  ducretien  fur
of women replares itself exacoly.  The esetetieay populotien sloe tan                           Ioaories with atnienal educaticn eneollent nay eaneed 100 Percent
asctloted on the basis of rho yrcjetIed rharano tsotrs of the pepulation                        stnce seer pupils ace  .b.e.  00 sbhut  the official Scho-1 age.
it the year 20001,  nd rho rate of decline of ferility rate to replaem-                       Secondars Il hrl - total  mlbe and fele - Computed as above:; e,o-Idry
seen level.                                                                                     oduantion  requires at lots.  fear years of approved primary lesrtlo;
fea-     boroionary   toauar  It ra-hed - Thm year oben enai.onary pop.ado-fe                     pro-ide- general, cre-dIunel.  or teac bo,    radh   g  "eIecaoro   far puPI7
star hoa beet reached.                                                                          usuably of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondmene courses sae gee.rally
Pupapletron Desitiy                                                                                 =onloded.
Pee s;. hn. - Mid-year populetonr pee square kilomeitelCr (1 heotares) of                            tr                            fsecndaryf - Votioal instittutios
total area; 1969, 1900  nd 1979 data.                                                           include teconibal, industrials  o nther pergeesm  wbich operate independ-
Per sq. Fu. aeriutaral laud - Cnop-ted us above for agrioultural lard                             enby at asfeysenmenne of secondmry itst.tttons.
Irly; b960, 1970 and 197E data.                                                               Parll-tesoheo catio - pt""arn. a-d  eo-ndaoy - TIoal sntaenst enrolled ie
Poplcation Age Strunuore (rctmr-I) - Children (0-14 yeses), -rfking-age (15-                         pri=ry and  -e.oodoey levelt divfded by nuebers of rea.hers is thm
64 years), ard rerleed  (6b  years and over) as percentagen of eid-yer popu-                      correspondlng Ieves.,
latton; 19ff, 1970, and 1970 dana.                                                              Aduls ilt literacrate (rcente) - Literate adole (able rD rend and trIte)
Popabrtion Grwnt hone fpercent) - toted - Annual groyth rates of 1otel rid-                          asnaprcentage of ntlal adult popatuo  aged 15 years and ofer.
year populationn fur 1950-60, 1961-70, and 197D-79.
Pooplation Groyth Oate (pe-ce-t) - urban- Anr. l groyth rates of urban pupa-                  CONSMTTION
lations for 195D-6D, 196D-7D, -d 1970-79.                                                     Pessenger dare (ver rhotasrd eulelian) - Ps gsergee nets ...prite metre
trade Birth haoe (fer tbousand) - Apua.l live births per thousand of eid-year                   Prat  seoinfg loss thee etght persons; enolados  eaberoes,  hearses ted
popclatio;: 1969, 1979, and 1979 dart.                                                          silitryyvehtiles.
Crud Teeth OnIc (perrbrusecd) - Anneal deonbe per tho..n.fd  of mid-yeam                         bRdo      ses R ogeneret   ui e th n dln) - Al types of roa-eiers far radio
pupaon 1n; 60l, 1970, ard 11979 dora.                                                           broadn..sts no g.esoce  pabliro Pee  h"ns,, of lpopbttn;  -rlad            _ s
Gross Rt -odction u    re - Average  _aabet of daughtersn o-an will bear to                       litensed ..reei-rs In rusntres end be years wen rcgistrto  of radio
booeur nol vyredaroduve period if she experiences present age-secifitc fee-                     sets wee beffetters  dls foe rerent yeers may set bet oeeeablestnee
dility  rates; usually fivs-year o9verges ondreg to t6D, 197l, and 1079.                        mn nt o-ntrire  abolished lieesing.
feebly Planning - dcceptoren  Atnnnol  hobassods) -OnoA..  tam hben of norepeers                TV Reeiees (tee th.asand d urplatilo) - ITV reief-ar  foe beanda...  tq
of bilrh-roaterl devices undor ausplces of ntion.al fasily planefoig Pn-ge.                     general pablit  per tho.and pop        itulai; excludes nli.eeeed TV rectivers
Faeily Planntng - Psers (percent. of macried nuren) - Percenrage of married                       be roanneeeP and in pears ooei registration ef TV sees was ta eftect.
wunen of rhild-bearing age (15-4u years) who uem b brth-oontrel devits tno                    NewePe2er Circulation (Pee thosasd pepatntn) - Sh-os the aerage tin-
all  avrried  Iona in sear ag' gr-up.                                                           oslenun of "daily general ibeleesntnewspaper", defited as  aperiodical
Pnhboutodev-ted prlmantly to eronf lag9 geerl nag.  It Is rrotsld -d
FOOD AND N7UTRITION                                                                                  tO bh  "drily" if it appears or mast fu nIeral teal.
loden of Prod Prodauntio  par Capita )1969-71=bl0) - Iodie rf per .apita av.a..                 Cinema Annoal Attendanrce per Capit  per Year - Bod n  the  nuret of -
prductdion of all food au,rnodftime.  Prdoducionexrcludes need and feed and                     eicknet  sold deeding nb  year, includiag id.i-aIen- to doori-if  oiseman
ib  on reloader year bahis.  Co-ditines rover primary goods (e.g. sgsere.ne                     and rabil  units.
instead of nogar) which are ed1ble and conte nutelero  (e.g.  .offee and
ce ae       ..load.  Aggregate p-da-ti- tf nach  -urep i  basedf LcAthRb PORCE
te -aa  -ve-neg  prudoro Plit t   eights;  h961-65, 1970, aod 1979 detn.                      Tet.1 L.bhr Force (th.ssands) - Eoa....ie Ily artist pesrEos. ir oladleg
Per capita sapol  of calorins (percenr of renairereots) - tonpunod from                         armed fuoos  and see yploped bat e        cladles honsewines, , tadeaus, era.,
energy equalel-nt of oat fled supplies anailalie is onantry pereatr                            overbng popalatos of all  ages.   efninrins tn rier .osn  otrieb    are
par day.  dAvilable nopyddna ranprse- donOsOdy prud"roducto, bpee, ieps                       ntO cesparablo; 1960, 1979 and 1979 deco.
exrnp., and oh anges inst-ok.  Net auPplrit   erlude animal feed, seeds,                    Fmmale (percent) - Fesale labor furor  as percennage of sterl labor force.
q_antities used itu          -a     g  ad lasses to dnc tana . hRquire-                     Agr     ure (perceni) - a boo forre it terming, forestry, hunting and
meets mare nest  aned by PAO baend on physbilrgboal areds fun normal noti-                    fithing en percentage of tonal labor fSrce; 1960, 1970 end 1979 data.
,ite  end harlth -on-idering anvirc- -o-al ttpeeanuoe1  body -eights  age                   Industry (neenent) - Labot fuore it. =inig,  .n.ntrucsion, .ag.f.a.t...g
and sea dlstoibbnirn af populartio.  and allv,ing 1O percent foe waste an                     end eletririty,   -       tee  and gae as perrennoge ef total laber force; 1960,
household ltvel; 1961-65, 190          107  dana.                                             1970 and 1979 doto.
Far -helto supply ofIet ir gemn ecdfey  - Pernebi  t-nnc  of pen ospina                       enennotp-etbet   ..n   ..e..stn  - total,  am'   o  femab  - Frsitbpottee n
Fea  sappiy of  fd per da        et soPply ef frd is defined as abe-s.  h.e-                  activitynroeas arecnctd as ttal  mle, and demf  a le lbo  f              onf..
qbIrements too all  tenoribes e-tablished ly USDA preside for eitiaot                         percenangee of natal, male and female populantio  of ellages reepeotniel;
allosacue of 60 grams of to-al proraei  per day end 20 grate rf sbtrel and                    t96l, 197D, ond 1979 data.  Thone are bhaed an ItO's priticipation rarer
poIse prrteri, of  thibh 10 gret ehsuld he  atninal p_otein.  These seand-                    reflectung age-see steetrnre uf the populetion, end loag time treed.  A
nrds are lower than three af 75 grnrs of toral prooein end 23 grams of                        few estimne are ftoo  -ai.on..al souce.
asleal prone. an us sn sverge tee thl  cuold, pceps,ed by FAD ib  the Third                Efosor.to Dnpendenor lano - Btaio of prpyleltin und-r 15 a=d 65 and roe
teeth lnod Sucrve    196-,'l97f ned 1977 date.                                                to  thb  total labor fore.                                                                                 S
Per Ia.ita protein sooPly foro anImal and tuise - ProteIn supply of ford de-
Iried fro=m eieabs and pulses be graas pee day; 1961-65, 197D  and 1977 data.             INClIE DIedfdlO
Child (ages 1-4) Mt-enliti lore (pee thousand) - Annual da abhs per thousand tn                 Pernoege  f Felvete Ineo   (borh it rash and kind) - keceived by rithest
age gIat 1-0 yeu... nro, lhilde- in this age grasp; for east devel_ pefer.ns-.                  5 percent, richest 2D pertent, protmet 20 percent, end poorest 40 perenet
totes darn de rIved  te  lIife nobles; 19h0, 1970 nod 1979 dana.                                uf ho-eholds.
unbotH                                                                                          POVERTY TARG CI  GROUPt
Lifrdnexetncvy st erth  yyeoeu) -Aoenogf neabe  of yeosr  of life resounuE                      Tb  fulleniag ettmanas me aey apprexipvtenrases of poserey levels,
en   thti; l960, 1070 nod 1979 dan.adIbahb  tetdpecad   thProieeterai
Infert Mortaltit  hone Cuter thpannd) - Anaual deaths of infants under une ytar                 Onimated Abs- 7ue Poerten   Irnctt level fUll oer a-itn-) - orbaon ad rarel -
of age Pee th.ouaod line bitrhn.                                                                Ahenlone pottr,y   rm   le         NEtarbeoI        lve  hbam   elih a  imia.le
Atuass  t- Nale hater (potee-n a d  rupai)tvith nutal mbI e  adcu     - tm                         Abrtltelyodeqoote dtrn pl   es  ential one-lod reqairemeote iE not
ho tfyrl   trl  ohe    decl   u   ceaarbl  noness  reasef                                    affoedahi
wearn supply (includatrtet   carfare eaters  r -ntreatced but  _nror_Diatned                   Er td eativ  P..tt I-rv    lee  f    emo teiO  - arr   and  are- -
eer,uc           Pss       -h-- froor rneeedboreholes, springs,snd  sanitary wellns              tar n Relative Povert P.oma Level orw-t perot average -ubn pitoa
etemcengme  atf their resyectuie papulations.  Inn an urhn nsea s phbl                           u                    t       e         ts         r  of          frag     h.  -1
baonnboi or stoedpast boasted net epre shun 200 eaters fro= a boase map he                      persoenal ittmei et rheracounry.  Leheen lcvel iE derived from  the rursl
considered  tas p, l-withinreasa. e access 200 that... houste .  In -y b._ level with edj-utmean  fur higher test of living to orham  arees.
resonas hi  access would Imply thee the housewIfe or members of the hh,usehld haned  s-Peplain  ofp`r Aba.l-ti   Pfcerty Iand                        n Leval (speract) - e" bat
do ent hane to spynd a disproprorrtinte part of the day ia fetching the                          pour"a
feeily'   -r nw deets.p
Artenstoa Ereta Dlipoaal .    pe..  t etf populatiao  - total, orbae, and rural -
latber of people (ryoni, urbon, -nd-ruraC) erved by .e.reet dispas-l as
percentages of uteiespective populatIons.  fanrots disposal may inolude
tIe  -olicosi-n and dispsal, with    n ihbour trt-enE- uf huorn ers                                                                   P      i o  d S-n        Dnto 
and aste-_ater by water-borne systems or the use of pit privies sr.d sini                                                       d--nr analysis ned FP-j-b..s  ce,.rtet
ler bnstallations.                                                                                                                                   lop 1901
Porpltion per Physbinte  - Pupularirn dividtd by nu.bee af perairing physi-
obans qualified tame a aedbnel etherol at university letel.
Ppculatbon oper N_i_bo   Perset- PpoluotIndvided bp number of precttriig
male snd fseate geadyate nurset  practical outset, and assistaentoeses.



-23 -                              ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IlN 1978 /79                                    ANAL RATE OF GROW_TH (, 1972/73 constant prires)
UJS$ K1n.      %168J69-70/71    1970/71-77/78                              1978179
GNP at Market Prices           871.4        100.0                        7.4                0.9             1.6
Gross Domestic Investment      135.2         15.5                        1.1               -1.2            11.1
Gross National Saving           22.6          2.5                         -                -6.8          -45.0
Current Account Balance       -116.6        13.0
Exports of Goods, NFS          209.7         24.1                       -2.0               -2.0           -3.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         -313.8        36.0                         1.5               -0.6            14.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY AN 1978/79
Value Added                   Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ An.      -i                  Mln.        %                    iUS 7 ~       ;
Agriculture                   285.5        35.9               .820       67.0                  348.2         53.5
Industry                      174.1         21.9              .195       16.0                  892.8       137.2
Services                      336.0        42.2                .184      15.0                 1826.1        280.7
Unallocated                    -                               .024       2.0
Total/Average                                        1T7.0                             65          100.0
GOVERNMIT FINANCE
Central Government
( Le.Mln.)         % of GDI -c
1978/79     1978/79  1974-1975/76
Current Receipts                                                                      172.8       20.7        17.5
Current Sxpenditure                                                                   166.0       19.9        16.2
Current Surplus                                                                      .3           U7t
Capital Expenditures                                                                   41.6       5.0          5.4
External Assistance (net)                                                              36.2       4.2          4.7
MONEY, CRDIT and PRICES                    1974         1975         1976         1977        1978      1979     1980
(Nllion  Le outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      84.6         91.6        ill.?        136.2       179.3    214.5    26135
Bank credit to Public Sector 3/            23.0         56.7        107.3       119.7        182.4    252.5    338.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector              39.7         41.1         43.7        46.8         64.9     71.0      84.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP (m.p.) 17.7           16.0         18.2         18.3        22.0      23.0     25.4
General Price Index (1961 = 100) 4/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        14.4         19.9         17.2         8.3         10.9     21.2      11.2
Bank credit to Public Sector               52.3        146.5         89.2         11.6        52.4     38.4      34.2
Bank credit to Private Sector              40.8          3.5          6.3          7.1        38.6      9.4      18.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
'Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ 1980 figures are preliminary.
31  Credit from the Banking Systen.
4/  Consumer Price Index (Freetown).
not available
not applicable



-24 -                                  ANNsXI
Page 5 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLO-WS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCtANDISE EKPOIrS(US $ Million)
1974  1976  1979                           ~~~~~~1973-75   1977-79
(Million-s US $)                                        Average       Average
0    230 0   Minerals            ~~99.1   74.1   105.S       58.4
Exports of Goods, NFS            153.5    120.0    230.0           Minerals                   91       4__               58_4
Imports of Goods, NFS           -217.2   -162.5   -304.2             Diamonds                 80.4   60.1   -97.7        53.9
Resource Gap (deficit =-         -         -         -               Iron Ore                 14.3   10.7       -         -
- 63.7   - 42.5   - 74.2             Bauxite                  4.4    3.3       8.1       4.5
Agr'l. Commod.             24.8   18.5    64.1       35.4
Interest Payments (net)                                              Coffee                    7.8    5.8    32.5        17.9
Workers' Remittances                                                 Cocoa                     8.2    6.1    22.8        12.6
Other Factor Payments (net)  - 18.8   - 25.2   - 40.9                Palm kernels & Prod.   8.8    6.6          8.8       4.9
Net Transfers                     21.9      10.7      28.6         All other Commodities       9.9    7.4    I0.-L        6.Z
Balance on Current Account   - 60.6   - s7.0   - 86.5                           Total        133.8  100.0   181.1    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         10.3       8.5       7.6
Net MLT Borrowing                 26.8      16.4      37.0
Disbursements                  38.5      32.3      86.1             EXTERNAL DEBT. December 31, 1980              US $ MK
Amortization                  -11.7    -15.9    -49.0
Subtotal                       37.1      24.9      44.6                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                334.7
Capital Grants                     3.5       5.6       6.7                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)               10.4       4.3       7.6                Total outstanding & Disbursed                334.7
Other items n.e.i                 :_...8    =-2.A1    =lL.5
Increase in Reserves (+)           7.8    -24.3    -43.1               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Gross Reserves (end year)         49.2      21.8      46.7
Net Reserves   (end year)         36.5    - 4.9    -26.2                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 29.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    -
Fuel and Related Materials                                                Total outstanding & Disbursed                 29.6
Imports
of which:  Petroleun          25.3      11.2      67.0 2
Rports
of which:  Petroleum            -         -        -
IBRD/IDA LENDING (May 31, 1981) (Million US $):
RATS OF SICHRAr1J                                                                                             IBRD          IDA
i hrouwn     1971                 In   -      1980                  Outstanding & Disbursed                 18.5        29.9
be    1. 0 l U.8297 Le         US$$ 1.00 - 1.050 Le                Undisbursed                              0.2          4.1
1.e   1.00   US $1.2053            Le 1.00 - US $ .9518             Outstandi.g  mc. Undisbursed            1F8.7        34.0
1/ Preliminary.
2/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.  Excludes debt servicing of arrears
($16.3 million in principal and $4.9 million in interest).
not available
not applicable
July 31, 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                         US$ million
Credit                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower         Purpose             Bank    IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Five Loans and Four Credits Fully Disbursed               18.7    15.8
573      1975    Sierra Leone    Education II              -      7.3        1.12
734      1977    Sierra Leone    Third Power              -       8.2         .09
970      1980    Sierra Leone    Technical
Assistance           -       2.5       1.70
1094      1981    Sierra Leone    Eastern Agric.            -     12.0       10.90
1128      1981    Sierra Leone    Northern Agric.           -      8.5        8.20
1129      1981    Sierra Leone    Highways II               -     10.0        9.30
Total                                 18.7    64.3        31.31
of which has been repaid             6.2      0.1
Total now outstanding                 12.5    64.2
Amount sold             0.5
of which has
been repaid           0.5            0.0
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                        12.5    64.2
Total undisbursed                      0       31.31      31.31
1/ Net of Exchange Adjustments.



-26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Year      Obligor         Type of Business      Loan      Equity      Total
1980      Sierra Cement       Cement and Con-       2.1          -         2.1
Manufacturing      struction mate-
Company, Ltd       rials
(SERACEM)
Total Undisbursed                        0.7          -         0.7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (Status as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Credit No. 573-SL   Second Education Project:  US$7.25 million Credit of
July 29, 1975; Effective Date: September 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project administration continues to be efficient and physical
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts have been awarded
for all civil works, equipment and furniture. Training courses for technical
teachers and community development workers are well established and management
training programs for private and public sector staff are underway at the new
facilities constructed under the project. Curriculum development work for
secondary education has been successfully completed. The only significant
project difficulties have arisen in connection with efforts to strengthen the
local capacity for educational research and planning by providing assistance
to the Institute of Education and the Ministry of Education Planning Unit.
The principal source of this problem is the lack of qualified local staff.
The project includes fellowships to train local staff in these areas, but
recruitment of suitable candidates into the civil service is proving diffi-
cult. A gradual strengthening of educational planning is taking place with
the help of the advisor financed under the Technical Assistance project
(Credit 970-SL). To assist the Government to finance the local cost portion
of the project, the Executive Directors approved a US$1.0 million EEC Special
Action Credit which became effective July 2, 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Credit No. 734-SL   Third Power Project; US$8.2 million Credit of
September 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The 9.2 MW slow speed diesel electric generator has been installed
and is operating satisfactorily. The feasibility study for the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project has been completed by the consultants and detailed
engineering is at an advanced stage, but work has been suspended because
funds under this Credit for such work have been fully disbursed and the
Government does not have foreign exchange to meet the shortfall. At present
approximately US$90,000 remain undisbursed but this amount is expected to be
completely disbursed shortly.
Credit No. 970-SL   Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.5 million Credit of
February 8, 1980; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at strengthening the Government's capability in
development planning, the preparation of development projects, the training of
local staff, and the monitoring and evaluation of public investment programs.
It includes: (a) 10 man-years of advisers; (b) 75 man-months of consultants;
(c) training in development planning and project preparation; and (d) project
preparation and prefeasibility studies. Project implementation has-been under
way since the appointment of planning advisors in four ministries during the
second half of 1981. Progress towards institutional and training objectives
of the project has been slow due to national staff constraints and coordina-
tion problems. Studies on the organization of the agricultural sector services,
rural banking and seed multiplication have been completed and are under review
by the Government and IDA.
Credit No. 1094-SL Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project III:
US$12.0 million Credit of February 13, 1981;
Effective Date:  September 16, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project aims at consolidating and expanding the assistance to
small scale farmers in the Eastern Region which was started under the previous
two Bank Group integrated agricultural projects by further increasing food and
export crop production. It also continues support for the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Forestry's Project Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit which
coordinates and supports all agricultural projects in the country. Monitoring
and evaluation, which had heretofore been inadequate, is being given special
attention in order to better assess accomplishments and design future strategy.
Implementation is progressing satisfactorily.



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Credit No. 1128-SL Northern Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of May 13, 1981;
Effective Date: October 15, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project, which is a follow-up to the Second Integrated Agricul-
tural Development Project for which a Credit and Loan were granted in July
1975, would enable the Government to continue the agricultural development of
the Northern Region by capitalizing on the earlier project. It aims at
strengthening existing commercial and credit services in the region until an
independent and national credit and input supply institution is established.
It provides for:  (a) reinforcing existing extension and farmer support
services; (b) medium and short-term credit to finance inputs and developmental
investments; (c) consultancy and technical assistance for supporting studies
and forestry research; (d) strengthening of staff training, and (e) the
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation cell. The project has got off to
a reasonably good start.
Credit No. 1129-SL Second Highway Project: US$10.0 million Credit of
October 29, 1981; Effective Date: February 3, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The consultants have mobilized and are preparing an inception report
which will probably recommend some changes in the scope and timing of the
maintenance component. The report will be discussed with IDA, the ADF and the
Government in June 1982.



- 29 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SIERRA LEONE
POWER SECTOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  time taken to prepare project:  about six months
(b) agency which prepared project: Government of Sierra Leone, assisted
by the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
(c) date of first IDA mission to consider project: October 1981
(d) date of appraisal: October, 1981
(e) date of completion of negotiations: May 3, 1982
(f) planned date of effectiveness: July 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Until a tariff increase is put into effect in mid-1983, The Govern-
ment would provide the funds required by NPA to enable it to meet
the agreed rates of return (para 40);
(b) The NPA would contract a technical assistance team with qualifica-
tions, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment
acceptable to IDA (para 43);
(c) as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit, the Govern-
ment would cause the price of fuel used by NPA to generate power to
be adjusted to correspond to the free market price of fuel and
NPA would change the base price in the fuel adjustment clause of
its electricity tariff to correspond to such price (para 44);
(d)  NPA would adopt and apply the fuel adjustment clause (para 44);
(e) NPA would raise its power tariff by 15 percent no later than
July 1, 1983 and achieve a rate of return of 10 percent on fixed
assets in operation during its fiscal year ending March 31, 1984
and 8 percent on its revalued fixed assets in operation each fiscal
year thereafter (para 44).



- 30 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(f) Consultant to carry out a study of the impact of the Bumbuna project
on the Freetown oil refinery, the study to be completed by December 31,
1982 (para 49).
(g) NPA would appoint an Engineering Review Board on terms of reference
acceptable to IDA by September 30, 1982 (para 50); and
(h) Proceeds of the Credit and of other resources for the project to
be provided to NPA by the Government as an equity contribution
(para 55).



IBRD 16257
___MAURITANIA j            1                                                                                         MARCH 1982
SENEGA                   MAL                  This map has bee, prepared by the                     SIERRA  LEONE
THE    'r              '*T~~~~~~~~~., --. -N IGE R  World Bank 's staff esclosirely for
THE GAM      )          r  PPER .  r         the conv.emt,ence of the readers of          P O W  E R   EN G I N E E R I N G
UP PE L.,the report to which it is attachedI
GUNE                     VOLTA              Te denomninat,ios us'ed and the
BISSAU   GuINEA 2  _                        boundaries shown on this map                                  AND
'.~~~  (  \.  ' 3   f ~~~~~do not,imply, on the part of the
IVORY            ~~~~~~~jsdgment on the legal status of     T    C     NC       LA        SS      A     C
LEO;'EQ  (COAS /IGERIA           World Bank andisafliGates, any   |       TECHNICAL   ASSISTANCE
COAST                     any terrtory or any endorem,ent-~I
GHANA         ~~~~~or acc eptance of such boundaries
LtBERIA                                                                                        132 kV Transmission Line
GOG   EN                                                                    132 kV Substations
AEfoctla  Ocean                                                                                            33 kV Transmission Line
*                        National Capital
0D   Provincial Capitals
i 10     -       -- .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .....Provincial Boundaries     10-
13  _   (    j   ,\   _   _International Boundaries
(             _ a mbaIo0~alaba
G U I N E A                       f                         0                     \ 
l           60v-gX                              V             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KABALA   
i               4,             g   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kamakwei0 ,At                         <                GUI I N E A
,s.e'~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .1SI t   ~9
..FS'zV;Watorlo6T   H O                                                              R             i j RN                               )
9' 9    e 7 g    r , < ,  umDuno   V  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pagum                                              2
10 (I               ndem ui
13                                           g<; 0                                         1_ 1 > X tz gE 5 ~ / i ) R v
~~~~~s~~~~~~~<eo ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    T J  { Flcol,
FREOETOW              0     ;0       6        0     10                                     i/lnos
7   t1  '   '   '  '   '    '    '  '   '  z  ^ '               : +                   v                                         7b  l
IUILES O   20     40            60                     Sulima.~Taama  
813                                             .S       r2\                                                      u



