OFMIIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1265 SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Sector Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project)
between
SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1265 SL
DEVEOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
SIERRA LEONE (hereinafter called he Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the contributing
parties to the OPEC Fund for International Development (herein-
after called the OPEC Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the FUND
Loan) in an amount of not less than five million dollars
($5,000,000) to assist in financing Parts B (1) and C of the Pro-
ject on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (here-
inafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and OPEC Fund;-
(C)  the Borrower, OPEC Fund and the Association intend to
enter into an agreement (hereinafter called Memorandum of Agree-
ment) making arrangements for the Association to process applica-
tions for withdrawal of the proceeds of the FUND Loan and of the
Credit and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with the financing provided for the Project by the
OPEC Fund and the Association;
(D)   on July 5, 1982, the Sierra Leone Electricity Cor-
poration (hereinafter called SLEC) was transferred to and vested
in the National Power Authority (hereinafter called NPA) pursuant
to Section 37 of the National Power Authority Act, 1982;
(E)   the Project will be carried out by NPA with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to NPA the proceeds of the Credit and of the
FUND Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NPA;
NOW THFEEFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective- meanings therein set forth and the follnwing     addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NPA of even date    herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules,
and all agreements supplemental, to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "National Power Authority" or "NPA" means the National
Power Authority established under the National Power Authority
Act, 1982;
(c).   "Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project"    means   the  hydro-
electric project to be constructed at Bumbuna Falls on the River
Seli in Sierra Leone;
(d) "Engineering Review Board" means the engineering review
board to be established by NPA pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of
the Project Agreement;
(e)   "free market price for similar fuel" means the price
the Freetown Oil Refinery charges ships for bunker "C" fuel;
(f)   "fiscal year" means the year starting April 1 and
ending March 31; and
(g)   "fuel adjustment clause" means the fuel adjustment
clause as set forth in Nottces of Tariffs for Electricity Supply
published by the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Power in the
Sierra Leone Gazette.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The 1Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to four million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from -ime to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1992, and ending
February 1, 2032, each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2002 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause NPA to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall tke and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds (including foreign exchange),
facilities,   services   and   other   resources,   necessary   or
appropriate to enable NPA to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall promptly make available the
proceeds of the Credit and of the FUND Loan to NPA as part of the
Borrower's contribution to NPA's equity.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that, upon any
increase in the cost of fuel oil supplied to NPA, NPA promptly
put into effect a corresponding increase in its electricity
tariffs as required by the fuel adjustment clause.
Section 3.04. Until such time as NPA puts into effect the
electricity tariff increases required under Section 4.03 of
the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall provide to NPA, prompt-
ly as the case may require, adequate funds in the form of grants
to enable NPA to achieve the rates of return specified in Section
4.04 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure
that NPA meet its obligations to increase electricity tariffs in
accordance with Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive the fuel adjustment clause.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a resul- of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tIon shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NPA
shall be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The National Power Authority Act, 1982 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the abilit1 of NPA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NPA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the FUND Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Fund Loan
Agreement, or (B) the FUND Loan shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿-6-
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its   obligations   under   such   agreement;   and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of NPA under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)    the event specified in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreetment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and NPA;
(b) any event specified in Section 4.01 (b), (c) and (d) of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in Section 4.01 (e) (i) (B) of this
Agreement   shall  occur,   subject   to  the   proviso  of   Sec-
tion 4.01 (e) (ii).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) that the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to the Association that the transfer to and vesting in NPA of the
rights, privileges and obligations of SLEC pursuant to the
National Power Authority Act, 1982 is in full force and effect;
(b)   that the Association has received evidence, satisfac-
tory to the Association, that: (i) the price of fuel supplied to


﻿-7-
NPA has been fully adjusted to correspond to the free market
price for similar fuel; and (ii) a revision to the fuel adjust-
ment clause, satisfactory to the Association, has been made to
incorporate the adjusted price of fuel referred to in sub-para-
graph (i) hereof as the base price for the fuel adjustment
clause; and
(c)  that the OPEC Fund has notified the Association that
all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the FUND
Loan have 'len fulfilled subject only to the effectiveness of
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b' of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NPA, anA is legally binding upon NPA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the transfer to and vesting Ji NPA of the rights,
privileges and obligations of SLEC, pursuant to the National
Power Authority Act, 1982, is in full force and effect.
Section 5.0?  The date                cl'/ 11 / -  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
George Street
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:
MINFIN
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunLto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  f      Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Cred$t, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Consultant Services:
(a) Preparation of              3,240,000    100% of foreign
Bumbuna Hydroelectric                   expenditures
Project
(b)  Engineering Review           180,000     100% of foreign
Board                                   expenditures
(c) Freetown Oil Refinery         180,000     100% of foreign
Study                                   expenditures
(2) Improvements to the water          450,000     100% of foreign
cooling system at King                        expenditures
Tom Station
(3) Unallocated                        450,000
TOTAL        4,500,000
2.      For  the purposes of    this Schedule   the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 10 -
(b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of one million five hundred thousand
dollars ($1,500,000) may be made in respect of Category (1) on
account of payrents made for such expenditures before that date
but after March 31, 1981; and
(c)  payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Preparation of Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project
(1) Completion of detailed engineering, preparation of bid docu-
ments and assistance in evaluation of bids for the main
civil works and engineering contracts for the Bumbuna Hydro-
electric Project.
(2) Establishment of an Engineering Review Board consisting of
up to four internationally-recognized hydroelectric experts
to advise the Borrower on the technical aspects of the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project.
(3) A study to asseos the economic impact of the Bumbuna Hydro-
electric Project on the Freetown Oil Refinery.
B.   Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities
(1) Maintenance of NPA's existing diesel generators and distri-
bution systems involving the provision of essential spare
parts and materials.
(2) Maximization of power output at the King Tom Station through
improvements to its cooling water system.
C.   Institutional Changes and Training
(1) A program of technical assistance to strengthen the manage-
ment of NPA through an arrangement with an operating uti-
lity for the provision of a chief executive, an assistant
general manager (finance), an assistant general manager
(engineering) with responsibility for construction of the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, a financial controller and a
chief accountant.
(2) Overseas training for up to twelve selected NPA executives.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


