FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 224a-VE
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
VENEZUELA
October 3, 1973
Agriculture Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for offidal use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accumacy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALETrS
US$1.00       -  Bs 4.30
Bs 1.00       a US$0.23
Bs 1,000      -  US$233
Bs 1,000,000  =  US$232,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAP       -   Banco Agricola y Pecuario
BDA       -   Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario, S.A.
IAN       -   Instituto Agrario Nacional
MAC       _   Ministry of Agriculture
MMH       -  Ministry of Mining and Hydrology
PRIDA     -  Programa Integral de Desarrollo Agricola
BDA FISCAL YEAR
January 2 - December 31



VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......       ......................    i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........       ........ .... .                1
II.   BACKGROUND         ........................................  1
A.   General   ..................................       1
B.   Agricultural Credit ........... . .........       4
III.   THE PROJECT ........    ........................             5
A.   Definition .............. * .... ............*     5
B.   Detailed Features ........................         7
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing        .............  8
D.   Procurement and Disbursement   ..............    10
IV.   BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, S.A. (BDA) .......        11
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND SUB-BORROW4ERS1 BENEFITS ..       17
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS    ........................     19
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............        21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Venezuela in
April/May 1973, consisting of Messrs. K.W. Berg, D.S. Evans, R. Arrivillaga
(Bank), and B.C. Bilbo and H. Kreckel (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Background
2.   The Livestock Sector
3.   Production and Marketing of Commodities to be Financed
under the Project
4.   Investments for Irrigation, Drainage and Mfechanization to be
Financed under the Project
5.   Agro-Industry to be Financed under the Project
6.   Project Cash Flow
7.   Disbursement Estimate
8.   Agriculture Credit in Venezuela
9.   Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario, S.A. (BDA)
10.   Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
11.   Actual and Projected Profit and Loss Accounts for Year Ending
December 31, 1970-77
12.   Table 1 - Producer Income and Financial Rates of Return on
Investment Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Table 2 - Producer Income and Financial Rate of Return on
Investment Farm Model and Cash Flow
13.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Rates of Return to the Enterprises
Table 2 - Employment for Semi-skilled and Unskilled Labor
MAPS



VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an Agricultural Credit Project for which a
Bank loan of US$22 million equivalent is proposed. The loan would support
a three-year lending program of the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA)
for medium- and long-term investments in agriculture and related agro-
industries to be made by medium and large farmers and, as a new line of lend-
ing of BDA, a few associations of smaller commercial farmers. BDA, which is
in equal parts Government and privately owned, would be the borrower with
Government as the guarantor bearing the exchange risk.
ii.       This would be the second Bank loan to the agricultural sector of
Venezuela. The first - loan 807-VE for US$11 million in 1972 for livestock
credit - was also made to BDA. After a slow start during the first six months,
the project is now accelerating and progressing satisfactorily.
iii.      Although Venezuela's agricultural sector employs one-fifth of the
country's active labor force, it contributes only 6.5% to the GNP, about the
lowest in South America. During the last 10 years, agricultural production
has grown at an annual rate of 4.8%, as compared to the growth of Venezuela's
total GNP of 4.0 to 4.5% during the same period. The country's self-sufficiency
in agricultural production increased from 752 to 82% over the previous decade.
However, this trend changed somewhat between 1968 and 1972, when the sector's
growth slowed down to 3.4% annually. While livestock and fishery output rose
annually by 4.7% and 10.5% respectively, annual crops' output increased by
only 1.6%, thus much slower than population, which grew by about 3.3% per
annum. Coffee, cocoa, sugar, bananas and plantains are the main agricultural
exports, while wheat, fruits, vegetables, animal products, sorghum, and maize
constituted the principal agricultural imports.
iv.       During the past 11 years, Venezuela has vigorously pursued implemen-
tation of an agrarian reform law, which was passed in 1960.  About 6 million ha
changed ownership and of this about one-third was private land and two-thirds
public property. The program settled some 196,000 families, but about 66500C
of these have since left the land because the holding size assigned and ser-
vices provided were often too small and inadequate respectively.so that urban
opportunities appeared more attractive to the settlers.  Priority has,
fore, been shifted to consolidation of farms already allotted.  Under a BTb$18
million equivalent IDB-assisted project (PRIDA), the Agriculture and Live-
stock Bank (BAP) provides long-term credit under highly subsidized interest
rates (less than 4%) to small farmers and this project absorbs fu-ly the
administrative capacity of that bank.
v.        While BAP, by law, lends at less than 4% and to small- and non-
commercial medium-size farmers only, the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(BDA), the proposed borrower for the Project, addresses itself to commercial



- ii -
medium- and large-size farmers and charges commercial rates of 9% per annum.            x
Under the Project, the effective interest rate would be increased by one
percentage point to 10%.
vi.       The proposed Project would be in line with Government's IV National
Plan and would finance on-farm investments for annual and perennial crop pro-
duction and related agro-industries.  Therefore, it would assist Government
efforts to increase, particularly, the production of crops, which has been grow-
ing at an annual rate of only 1.6% during 1968 through 1972.
vii.      BDA is virtually the only institutional source for long-term lend-
ing to commercial medium and large farmers. It has, however, been very short
of medium- and long-term lending funds, other than for livestock which are in
part financed by the first Bank loan (807-VE). BDA also handles the commercial
loan portfolio of BAP for a fee, but the risk of these operations is borne by
the Government.
viii.     Under the Project, BDA would make about 550 sub-loans to medium
and large farmers and a few associations of smaller commercial farmers arid
some (about 10) agro-industrial enterprises, mostly owned by farmer associa-
tions. Medium-size farmers are defined as those having an annual gross income
of US$7,000 to US$16,000 equivalent. This corresponds to a net family income
of US$2,000 to US$4,000, or some US$500 to US$1,000 per member of the family.
Total Project cost would amount to US$50.4 million equivalent, and would be
financed as follows:  sub-borrowers would contribute 20%, Government would
provide 18% and BDA would oontribute from its own resources 182 equivalenvt,
which it would obtain in part through a bond issue guaranteed by the Govern-
ment. The proposed loan of US$22 million equivalent, or 44% of Project cost,
would cover the balance, representing the estimated foreign exchange cost.
ix.       Procurement would be through normal commercial channels, since the
range of items to be financed under the Project is very diverse and spread
over a four-year investment period and are, therefore, not suitable for bulk
procurement. A number of foreign firms are represented, assuring keen com-
petition, and supplies are satisfactory on the local market and prices com-
petitive.
x.        The financial rates of return are estimated to range from 16 to
52%. The overall economic rate of return is estimated at about 19%. During
negotiations appropriate assurances were obtained, providing a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$22 million for a term of 14 years, including a four-year
grace period.



VENEZUELA
0                                   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      An identification mission, consisting of Messrs. K. Berg (Bank) and
H. Casati (FAO/CP), visited Venezuela in May/June 1972 and concluded that
there was a strong demand for medium- and long-term credit for investments in
agriculture. Following that mission, the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario
*            (BDA) prepared a detailed Project request, which was submitted to the Bank
in September 1972. In November 1972, a FAO/CP mission helped in completing
Project preparation. The Project would complement BDA's lending program and
would be the second Bank loan to BDA, with Government as the guarantor. The
first loan (807-VE) was signed in 1972, amounting to US$11 millicn, and finan-
ces long-term livestock investments. This Project is proceeding well. Actual-
ly, it was the first Bank loan to the agricultural sector in Venezuela. The
proposed second loan to BDA would help finance an agricultural credit project.
A loan of US$22 million equivalent is recommended.
1.02      Government is encouraging investments in agriculture by providing
technical and financial assistance.  The Agricultural and Livestock Bank (BAP)
lends to the small farming sector at highly subsidized interest rates, while
BDA lends to commercial farmers at commercial rates. For the latter sector,
BDA is virtually the only source of medium- and long-term financing, but BDA
so far has been short of funds, other than for livestock credit, to lend on
these terms. The proposed Project has been designed to heip correct this
deficiency.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Venezuela in April/May 1973, consisting of Messrs. K.W. Berg, D.N. Evans,
R. Arrivillaga (Bank), and B.C. Bilbo and H. Kreckel (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
Area and Population
2.01      Venezuela has an area of some 912,000 km  (Maps) and a population
about 10.  million.  Thus, the overall population density is quite low, about
12 per km . Of the total land area, only about 2% or 1.7 million ha is used
for annual, semi-permanent and permanent crop production. Another estimated
16.6 million ha is under pasture, 2.5 million under fallow, 4.4 million under
forest and 0.9 million is declared as other agricultural land. Thus, Venezuela's
total agricultural land is about 26 million ha or 29% of the country's area.
0



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Since less than half of the potential agricultural area is presently used, land          e
pressures, cormon in some other Latin American countries, are, except in some
densely populated areas, not likely to arise in Venezuela for some time to come.
The Economy
2.02      Despite the satisfactory performance of the economy (high foreign ex-
change reserves, low debt service ratio and a moderate rate of growth of about
4.0 to 4.5% per annum) and a GNP per capita of about US$1,000, income distribu-
tion is such that the average income of the poorest 25% of the population is
around US$250 equivalent. The country continues to be heavily dependent on
oil, which still acounts for 90% of merchandise exports and two-thirds of
Government resources, although its share in GCD has been declining. The
petroleum sector produces 24% of the GNP, but employs only 2% of the country's
active labor force. Other main sectors of the economy are manufacturing (14%
of GNP), transport (8.4%), agriculture (6.5%), and mining (1.2%).
Agriculture in the Economy
2.03      About one-fifth of the country's active labor force is employed
in the agricultural sector, which contributes only 6.5% to the GNP, about
the lowest in South America. Agricultural output has been growing at an
average annual rate of about 4.8% over the last decade. This compares to
a growth of the whole economy during the same period of about 4.0 to 4.5%.
Venezuela's self-sufficiency in agricultural production increased from 75%
to 82% over the previous decade.  However, this trend changed somewhat between          0
1968 and 1972, when the sector's growth slowed down to 3.4% annually. While
livestock and fishery output rose annually by 4.7% and 10.5%, respectively,
annual crops increased by only 1.6%. Venezuela imports annually about US$186
million equivalent of agricultural products as compared to about US$45 million
agricultural exports. This represents about 12% and 2%, respectively, of
total imports and exports. The main agricultural exports are coffee, cacao,
sugar, bananas and plantains, while the major agricultural imports are wheat,
fruits, vegetables, animal products, sorghum and maize. Crops occupying more
than 100,000 ha are maize, coffee, sesame and rice (see Annexes 1 and 2).
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
2.04      Comprehensive data on land use are based on the out-of-date Agri-
culture Census of 19615 which does not reflect the impact of the land reform
program (para 2.06). Venezuela's farm land is estimated at about 26 million
ha. The 1961 Census showed that about 79% of the farm land was concentrated
in farms more than 500 ha in size, representing only 3.6% of the number of
farms, while small farmers having less than 20 ha occupied only 4.0% of total
farm land but represented 76% of the number of farms. The balance, 16% of
farm land and 20.4% of the number of farms, was occupied by farms of 20 to
500 ha in size (Arnex 1, Table 4)3
2.05      An Agrarian Reform Law was passed in 1960 and the Instituto
Agrario Nacicial (IAN) began implementation in 1961. Under its provisions,
all public land is affected and is to be used first for new settlements in



-3-
specified areas.  If necessary, privately owned land can be acquired in the
following order:  (a) idle land; (b) inefficiently managed land; (c) land
where cropping is feasible but which is used for grazing; and (d) any private
land after all other sources are exhausted. Farms between 150 to 5,000 ha,
depending mostly on soil capability, are exempted as are properly managed
commercial livestock farms larger than 5,000 ha.
2.06      Venezuela's agricultural sector presently faces two main problems:
(a) production incentives are given only to selected crops; and (b) the lower
productivity of the less privileged farmers, who, while already receiving
substantial Government assistance, have still a low income. As a result of
petroleum development, commercial agriculture in Venezuela is competing for
labor with urban centers offering artificially inflated wage rates. In
addition, Venezuelan agriculture suffers as well from the disincentives of
an overvalued exchange rate, which has contributed to some marked distortion
in the agricultural sector. Forselected crops these disadvantages have been
overcome by Government investment, subsidies and protection against imports.
Government's agricultural policy has been aimed at encouraging of: (i) food
crop production to reduce imports; and (ii) commodities production with
export potential. Within this production-oriented policy, strong emphasis
has been given to assisting the small farmer sector.  In general, a growing
share of the budget (ranging from 14 to 19%) is being provided for the agri-
cultural sector.  The proposed Project (Chapter III) has been designed to
encourage investments in the crop producing sector by commercial farmers to
complement Government assistance for small farmers under the PRIDA Project
(para 2.10).  During the past 11 years, Venezuela has vigorously pursued
implementation of the agrarian reform.  Between 1961 and the end of 1972,
about 6.0 million ha changed ownership under the agrarian reform, (about one-
third private land and two-thirds public property). Some 196,000 families
were settled and a large number of small holders, especially in areas suit-
able for crop farming, received additional land. The average holding size
assigned to land reform beneficiaries varies between 3 and 5 ha in areas suit-
able for crop farming and where population density is high, and it is about
100 ha where only livestock production on pastures is feasible. The total
cost of the program to-date amounts to about US$590 million or about US$3,000
per family settled. However, experience so far has shown that the size of
holdings assigned was in many cases too small to provide year-round employment
and an income sufficient to retain people on the land; furthermore services
provided were inadequate. This has apparently contributed to the continued
migration of rural population to urban activities. IAN estimates that, as of
the end of 1970, 66,000 land reform beneficiaries had left the land to pursue
urban opportunities, which implies that a total of 130,000 farmers have been
permanently settled. Priority has, therefore, been shifted to the consolida-
tion of farms already allotted. The large Integrated Agricultural Project
(PRIDA), which has a total cost of US$180 million equivalent, is aimed at
helping raise the productive capacity of agrarian reform beneficiaries and
alleviate income disparities. A considerable proportion of the program, which
is assisted by IDB with a US$75Ymillion equivalent loan, is to be used for
0



-4-
the further development and consolidation of 120 existing Agrarian Reform
Settlements affecting about 130,000 families. The program includes US$37
million equivalent for small farmer credit (para 2.10).
Research and Extension
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for overall development
of the agricultural sector, including research and extension work. It con-
ducts research and extension work through nine regional sub-organizations,
which are staffed by about 900 professionals. Research in agronomy and live-
stock is centralized in two agencies at Maracay--the Agricultural Research Cen-
ter and the Veterinary Research Center--which supervise 14 field stations. Ex-
tension services are supplied from 67 nationwide offices, with major emphasis
on crop production. The Ministry also has five regional experimental stations,
two of which are in Zulia State, and one each in the States of Lara, Apure and
Guarico. The Government has also established several specialized agencies
which conduct research and extension work on specific crops. The Ministry's
extension work is oriented mainly towards small farmers and the agrarian
reform sector, while other specialized agencies work satisfactorily with BDA
and commercial farmers (Annex 1).
B. ARricultural Credit
2.08      Commercial Banks.  Venezuela has a countrywide distribution of about           0
35 commercial banks which are privately controlled. Although concentrated in
the Caracas metropolitan area, there are about 500 banking offices, including
headquarters' banks, branch and agency offices, servicing the country. How-
ever, most of their lending goes to trade, industry and services, and lending
to agriculture is mainly on short-term. Lending is limited to five years and,
under the General Banking Law, comnercial banks are permitted to lend up to
25% of their assets for up to five years, subject to certain security stipula-
tions. However, at least 25% of such lending must be for agricultural
purposes. Nevertheless, as of December 31, 1972, only 7% of commercial bank
loans outstanding for agriculture were of more than two years' maturity,
mostly for agro-industry.
2.09      Interest rates are restricted by the General Banking Law to 12%
per annum and are regulated by the Central Bank. Presently the maximum
allowed is 11%, but these rates are nominal, since it is normal practice to
collect interest on short-term loans in advance, thus increasing the effective
interest rate on such loans. Commercial bank rates to agriculture presently
range nominally from 10 to 11%, depending on the status of the client (a
substantial part of commercial banks lending for agriculture is to customers
with other investments outside the agricultural sector). In addition, vari-
ous charges are levied on the borrower for documentation, registration and
others which, together, amount to about an additional one percentage point
of interest.



-5-
2.10      Banco Agricola y Pecuario (BAP).  Up to the end of 1969, BAP provided
nearly two-thirds of institutional credit to agriculture.  It is government-
owned, receives substantial budgetary allocations and is obliged under its law
to lend at subsidized interest rates of less than 4% per annum. As a result
of BAP's social orientation loan recovery has been very low. Its role has
somewhat diminished since early 1970 due to the establishment of the Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA) (para 2.11). However, BAP is still the most
important single source of agricultural credit since, like BDA, it is permitted
to make loans for up to 20 years. BAP lends mainly to small farmers and
administers special Government credit programs, particularly for land reform
beneficiaries, including a portion of a US$75 million IDB loan. BAP's staff
resources are finally reached under its ongoing lending program particularly
due to the PRIDA project (para 2.06). It also lends to farmers which are
defined as medium size but non-commercial. Another factor which has contributed
to the relative diminution of BAP's share of the total agricultural portfolio
since 1969 has been a substantial increase in commercial bank's short-term
lending to livestock for beef fattening.
2.11      BDA, owned in equal shares by Government and the private sector
(see Chapter IV), was established with'the principal objective of providing
credit to commercial farmers, and to separate such lending operations from
loans to small farmers which are taken care of by BAP (para 2.10). BDA
charges rates of 9% per annum. The Bank assisted in drawing up its rules
and regulations. By end 1972 BDA's portfolio amounted to Bs 217 million
(US$51 million).
2.12      Lending to Agriculture.  As of December 31, 1972, bank loans out-
standing to the agricultural sector totalled Bs 1,768 million (US$412 million),
representing about 15% of total bank loans to all sectors. Of the amounts
outstanding to agriculture, BAP held 40%, BDA 13%, and 32 commercial banks--
the remaining portion--47%, but two-thirds of this were for short-term live-
stock fattening loans; and the remaining one-third was mainly for agro-indus-
tries and financing of agricultural trade.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The Project would be part of BDA's lending program over a three-
year commitment period.  It would help finance investments for on-farm develop-
ment including mainly minor irrigation, drainage, storage, mechanizationf,
coconuts and orchards, and for related processing facilities on loan terms
ranging between five and 14 years. Investments would be made by medium- and
large-size farmers, and a few associations of smaller commercial farmers and
agro-industrial units as new lines of lending by BDA. The Project would



-6-
provide finance for eligible investment throughout the country:  (i) on-farm
development for annual crop production (87% of total Project investment);
(ii) perennial crops (7%); and (iii) agro-industrial development (6%). BDA
would be the borrower and would administer the Project. Total Project cost
is estimated at Bs 217 million (US$50.4 million) and the Bank contribution
would be USS22.0 million, or 44%, covering the estimated foreign exchange
cost. Government/BDA and beneficiaries would contribute US$18.4 million and
US$10.0 million, i.e. 36% and 20% respectively. The contribution of the
latter is considered reasonable.
3.02      The following table shows the major investments expected to be
made over the three-year commitment period:
Invest-
Investments        Typical                                       ment
Financed for         Size     Number of       Total               per     Total
Production         of Sub-    Sub-loans       Sub-    Total       Sub-   Invest-
of            project   made in Year    loans   Area        project  ment
( ha )     1   2    3               (ha)    --(Bs '000)-
Annual crops
(surface
irrigation)         150      67   135  134    336   50,400         420   141,120
Annual crops
(sprinkler
irrigation)         180       18    36   36      90   16,200       520    46,800
Coconuts             60       14    28   28      70    4,200        89     6,230
Tree crops other
than coconuts        25       8    16   16      40    1,000        250    10,000
Agro-industry         -        2     4    4      10        -    1,300    13,000
Total                  109   219  218    546   71,800               217,150
3.03      About 550 medium- and large-size farmers and some newly formed
associations of smaller commercial farmers would participate in the Project.
The latter is a relatively new activity for BDA promoted through the proposed
Project following detailed studies undertaken by BDA in this field (para
4.12). A large portion of Project investments would be made in two distinct
regions: in the State of Portuguesa (Llanos Occidentales) and around the city
of Maturin (Llanos Orientales) where intensive agricultural production, together
with increasing investments, is taking place. The number of sub-loans under
the particular investment categories mentioned above, and the estimated crop-
ping pattern could vary, depending upon world market prices and Government
pricing policy for certain crops. The estimated number of sub-loans is based
.



-7-
on the separate consideration of each investment category but, in practice, in-
vestment would likely be made in a combination of several integrated items.
The separation into four illustrative types of investments has been made to
test the financial return of each major production activity on its own merits.
3.04      The composition and size of the proposed Project has been based on:
(i) the estimated credit demand by farmers for investments and (ii) BDA's
expected staff capacity to process sub-loan applications and supervise out-
standing sub-loans.
3.05      Government Funds for Infrastructural Work.  The Ministry of Public
Works has started to build and maintain major drainage canals in the Portuguesa
area where a major portion of Project investments is envisaged. This work is
expected to require about three years. However, while the responsible Ministry
appears to be well equipped and staffed to complete it satisfactorily, suffi-
cient fund allocation by Government would be indispensable. Such work is not
part of the Project but completion is considered a prerequisite for some of the
proposed Project beneficiaries. Accordingly, appropriate assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that it would give high priority
to such work and allocate not less than Bs 60 million (US$14 million) for
the years 1974 through 1976 to ensure timely completion.
B. Detailed Features
Investments for Production of Annual Crops
3.06      Existing crop farmers, mostly medium- and large-size farmers
(about 50 to 200 ha), would get medium- and long-term loans for expanding
and improving their operations. It is estimated that about 400 farmers
would benefit from the Project. Investments would take place mainly in the
Llanos Occidentales where surface irrigation from deep wells, and to a lesser
extent from rivers, together with land levelling, drainage works, on-farm
roads, storage and mechanization would be the predominant investment items.
Yields in the area presently vary considerably from year to year, depending
on weather conditions. In addition, considerable minor irrigation by sprink-
ler system is expected in the Llanos Orientales. The source of irrigation
water there would also be mainly deep wells and, where appropriate, rivers.
In total, about 67,000 ha of farm land is expected to be improved under the
lending category for annual crop production. Crops to be grown are mainly
rice, maize, groundnut, beans and sorghum. Investments in the Llaaos
Occidentales would include: wells and other minor irrigations works (29%
of investment), drainage, land levelling and on-farm roads (41%) and machi-
nery (30%). They would be slightly different in the Llanos Orientales where
sprinkler irrigation would be used instead of gravity as in the area described
above. Wells would cost about 33% of investments, the sprinkler irrigation
system 25% and machinery 42%. Investment costs for a 150-ha farmer in the
.



-8-
Llanos Occidentales are estimated to be about US$88,000 equivalent, while
investments for a 180-ha farmer, or a group of farmers, in the Llanos Orien-
tales are estimated at about US$110,000 equivalent (Annexes 3 and 4).
Perennial Crops
3.07      Mostly medium-size farmers (25 to 60 ha) would make investments in
perennial crops, which would include mainly coconuts, citrus, banana, avocado,
cashew and pineapple. It is expected that the major portion, about 4,200 ha,
would involve coconut plantations, either by making supplementary irrigation
available or by planting new trees to expand existing operations. To a 1esser
extent, about 1,000 ha of other perennial crops, mostly citrus, are also ex-
pected to be developed. Sub-project costs would cover irrigation facilities
(about 80% of investment), planting (10%), and land clearing and levelling
(10%). Groundwater investigations have been carried out by the Ministry of
Mining and Hydrology (MMH) and resources are adequate, both in the Llanos
Orientales and Occidentales.  It is expected that about 70 sub-loans would be
made to coconut growers and another 40 sub-loans for other perennial crops,
mainly for citrus growing. Average investment costs are estimated at about
US$34,000 equivalent per sub-borrower (Annex 4).
Agro-industrial Investments
3.08      Increasing production from commercial farming has created a need for
investments in processing facilities for agricultural products.  Producer or-
ganizations are keen to establish their own processing facilities, particularly
for sesame, cashew and citrus. The existing processing industry has often pre-
ferred to process imported material and is located at a considerable distance
from local producing centers and preliminary studies indicate that moving more
in-land is economically justified. This problem is discussed in Annex 5. So
far three such plants are under investigation in Venezuela. Since it is very
difficult to forecast which specific sub-projects would finally be proposed to
be financed under this category, and, since BDA has only very limited experi-
ence in this field, all sub-loans under this category would be submitted to
the Bank for prior approval, regardless of size (para 4.14). It is estimated
that a total of US$3.0 million agro-industrial investments would be made during
the Project period.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.09      Total Project cost is estimated at Bs 217 million (US$50.4 million),
of which 44%, or Bs 95 million (US$22 million), would be foreign exchange.
Cost estimates and foreign exchange requirements, based on the estimated demand
for medium- and long-term investments, are:



9 
Medium- and Long-term                                                       Foreign
Lending Categories         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
---(Bs Million)---             (US$ Million)-- x
1. Investments for
annual crop
production              108      80       188    25.0   18.7    43.7        43
2.  Investments for
perennial crops         11        5        16      2.6    1.1      3.7      31
3.  Agro-industry             3       10       13      0.8    2.2      3.0      75
Total:              122       95       217    28.4   22.0    50.4       44
=~~ =                           =   ==
3.10      Cost estimates include a 10% allowance for price increa-es.  The
following investments would be Involved:
Annual Crop   Perennial    Agro-
Production       Crops    industry   Total
…-----(in Bs Million)--------------
Land levelling and preparation              52           5           -          57
Buildings                                    -           -           3-          3
*          Machinery and equipment                     62           3          10         " 15
Irrigation and drainage facilities          74           8      -    -          82
Total:                          188          16          13         217
Excluded from Project financing would be investments for livestock production
since this sector is covered by another project, also financed in part by
the Bank (Loan 807-VE).
Financing
3.11      The total Project cost, amounting to Bs 217 million (US$50.4 mil-
lion), would be financed as follows: sub-borrowers would contribute 20% or
Bs 43 million (US$10.0 million); the Bank loan would cover 44%, or Bs 95 mil-
lion (US$22.0 million), which represents the estimated foreign exchange
component; the balance, 36%, or Bs 79 million (US$18.4 million), would be
contributed by Government (Bs 37 million or US$8.6 million) free of cost to
BDA, and by BDA itself through a Bs 25 million (US$5.8 million) bond issue
guaranteed by the Government plus Bs 17 million (US$4.0 million) additional
share capital generated by Project lending. Government contribution would
be made as follows: Bs 10 million within 12 months of the Loan Agreement;



- 10 -
an additional Bs 10 million within 24 months of the Loan Agreement; an                     I
additional Bs 92 million within 36 months of the Loan Agreement; and an
additional Bs 5 million within 48 months of the Loan Agreement. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained on these matters. The financing plan
for individual components of the Project is summarized in the following table:
Medium- and long-term                      Sub-         BDA/                 Total
Lending Categories                       borrowers  Government  Bank  Project Cost
( in ~~Bs MilliSon)
1. Investment ror annual
crop production                          38         70         80         188
2.  Investment for perennial crops            3          8          5          16
3.  Agro-industry                             2          1         10          13
Total:                            43         79         95         217
% of Total:                       20         36         44         100
3.12      BDA would be the borrower and Government would bear the foreign ex-
change risk. Assurances were obtained on this matter. The Bank loan would
be at the standard interest rate and repayment would be made over a period of
14 years, including four years of grace. The Project cash flow projections
indicate that repayment of the Bank loan as indicated above would be appropri-
ate (Annex 6).
D.  Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.13      The items to be financed for the approximately 550 sub-borrowers
throughout Venezuela over the four-year investment period are varied and
would not be suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive
bidding.  In -wst cases, land development and constructiori of irrigation
and drainage facilities would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers themselves
or by small local contractors. Goods required for such construction would
be obtained through existing commercial channels, which are satisfactory.
Most international suppliers of the imported items are well represented in
Venezuela, competition is keen and service reasonable.
Disbursement
3.14      E..th BDA's cotitments extendirng over three years, its disburse-
ments would be spread over about four years and Bank disbursement is expected
to cover four and. a lhalf years. Bank disbursements would be made for 55% of
6



- 11 -
amounts disbursed by BDA for individual loans, against a certificate of ex-
penditure. The documentation for such expenditures would not be submitted
to the Bank for review, but would be retained by BDA and made available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions. Individual
sub-loans would represent up to 80% of the new investment financed. The Bank
would disburse up to an amount allocated for each category, representing the
estimated foreign exchange cost (para 3.11). Bank disbursements would be the
equivalent of: Bs 80 million for medium- and long-term investments for annual
crop production; Bs 5 million for perennial crops; and Bs 10 million for agro-
industry. A schedule of estimated Bank disbursement is given in Annex 7. In
the event expenditures under any category provided for should decrease, the
amount of the loan allocated to such category and no longer required could, at
the request of the borrower, be reallocated to another category.
IV. BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, S.A. (BDA)
General
4.01      Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario, S.A. (BDA) was created as a joint
stock corporation by a law dated July 20, 1967. It was formally established
in August 1969, when the legally required minimum capital of Bs 20 million
(US$4.7 million) had been subscribed, and it commenced business operations in
January 1970. Its objectives are: to stimulate the increased productivity
of agricultural, livestock, forestry, and fishery enterprises; to improve
the living standards of workers in those enterprises and to promote and
strengthen rural cooperatives and farmers associations through the extension
of credit. BDA is also permitted to conduct normal commercial banking opera-
tions and to purchase shares of other companies up to an amount equal to 20%
of BDA's paid-in capital and reserves subject to a maximum holding in any one
company of 10% of that company's paid capital (the restrictions are slightly
different in respect to investments in other banking companies).
Capital and Resources
4.02      The authorized capital of BDA is Bs 100 million (US$24 million)
represented by 1 million shares with a nominal value of Bs 100 each and
divided into 500,000 "Class A" shares, which are reserved for purchase by
the Government of Venezuela and 500,000 "Class B" shares purchasable only
by the private sector. All share issues must consist of an equal amount of
shares from each class so that ownership of BDA is always equally divided
between Government and the private sector. A unique feature of BDA's capital
formation is that each borrower must own "Class B" shares equivalent to 5%
of the loan amount approved to him and purchases of stock made by borrowers
in fulfillment of this requirement are matched by an equivalent purchase of
"Class A" shares by Government.



- 12 -
4.03      Besides its own capital (paid-in Bs 45 million or US$10.5 million                I
and reserves Bs 16 million or US$3.7 million), BDA's other sources of funds
are interest -free current accounts balances, savings accounts (interest 4%
per annum), time deposits (4-1/2% to 7-1/2%) from the private sector and
Government entities, discounts from the Central Bank (5% for up to 360 days)
and the 4% trust portfolio management commission (para 4.05).
Use of Resources - Lending Operations
4.04      Owing to an acute shortage of long-term lending resources, BDA was
obliged during the first three years of its operation to restrict its lending
to short-term and, to a much lesser extent, medium-term credit. During the
period 1970-72, BDA granted 8,272 loans to 3,240 borrowers for a total of
Bs 599 million (US$139 million). Loans approved during 1972 amounted to
Bs 273 million (US$64 million) and were mainly for short-term with an average
loan size of Bs 70,000 (US$16,000), while long-term livestock sub-loans aver-
age about Bs 300,000 each (US$70,000). At end 1972, there were 2,866 loans
outstanding totalling Bs 218 million (US$51 million) which included 602 loans
aggregating Bs 56 million (US$13 million) of medium-term (two to five years)
maturity. The comparative figures at end 1971 were 1,732 loans totalling
Bs 129 million (US$30 million) of which 164 loans amounting to Bs 28 million
(US$6 million) were medium term. Since June 1972, when the Bank-financed
livestock project became effective, BDA has been providing eight- to 10-year
loans for livestock investments. The proposed Project would enable BDA to
extend its medium- and long-term lending into the agricultural sub-sector,
where there is substantial demand.
4.05      The law establishing BDA provides that all agricultural loans
previously granted by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAC), Banco Agricola y
Pecuario (BAP) and Corporacion Venezolana de Fomento (CVF) bearing interest
at 4% per annum or higher (with the exception of loans granted under programs
financed with USAID or TDB funds) must be transferred to BDA in trust for
collection and reinvestment. By end 1972, nearly 16,000 loans totalling
Bs 625 million (US$145 million) had been transferred to BDA. For administer-
ing the trust funds (FIDEICOMISO), for which it does not assume any financial
responsibility and is not answerable for uncollectable debt, BDA receives a
commission equal to 4% of the total trust portfolio. In FY72, FIDEICOMISO
commission provided 60% of BDA's total income (Annex 8).
Financial Situation
4.06      During the first three years of its operations, which ended
December 31, 1972, BDA was authorized under its law to open branches and
agencies in such numbers and at such places as it wished without the prior
consent of the Superintendent of Banks. in that time, it opened six branches,
six agencies and six technical offices spread throughout the developed regions
of the co .' -A_y; this rapid expansion gave rise to high administrative costs
while lending -,ol-.ume was still low. In future, BDA will require the specific



- 13 -
'        approval of the Superintendent of Banks before opening additional branches
and, as objections by other banks will have to be taken into consideration, it
is likely that physical growth will be considerably slower during the n3xt
few years which should lead to some stabilization of administrative costs.
Personnel and other administrative costs have been running at an annual rate
of over 6 of average loan balances reflecting the high cost of opening offices
and the rapid build-up of staff, many recruited at comparatively high salaries
from the banking, commercial, and Government sectors. Although an increase
in staff is foreseen (para 4.10) BDA's administrative costs in relation to
its loan portfolio are expected to fall considerably within the next years.
During its first three years of operations, BDA has suffered from space
constraints at headquarters; staff is at present occupying offices in four
separate buildings, but the situation will be eased when a new building, in
which BDA has reserved adequate space, is completed in the latter part of
1973 (Annexes 9 to 11).
4.07      During its first three years of operations, BDA has established a
sound financial position. As of December 31, 1972, assets were Bs 343 million
(US$81 million); liabilities Bs 282 million (US$67 million); paid-in capital
Bs 45 million (US$10 million) reserves Bs 16 million (US$4 million); and the
ratio of medium- and long-term debt to equity was 2.5:1. The short-term
assets, including 50% of the short-term loan portfolio, was nearly double
(198%) short-term liabilities. The commission received for administering
the FIDEICOMISO portfolio has thus far provided the major part of BDA's earn-
ings but it is anticipated by BDA management that by 1974 income from its
*        own loans will exceed that received from the FIDEICOMISO management fee.
Annual net profit for the years 1970-72 averaged Bs 6.6 million (US$1.5
million) which, after a 3% annual dividend to shareholders (in the form of
additional stock), was distributed to statutory and other reserves. It is
anticipated that BDA's financial condition will continue to be sound and its
operating results satisfactory.
4.08      BDA's arrears at December 31, 1972, totalled Bs 26 million (US$6
million), equivalent to 12% of portfolio, representing 650 loans of which
about half were past-due for more than 90 days. These arrears, however, were
mainly in respect of short-term production loans made in the Llanos Occidentales
area where two consecutive seasons of unduly heavy rains followed by drought
conditions in 1970/71 and 1971/72 caused serious damage to the rice, maize
and sesame crops. A good rice crop harvested in October 1972 was expected
to bring about a substantial reduction in the arrears and BDA does not anti-
cipate that any bad debts will ensue. Debt recovery procedures are quite sound,
Organization and Management
4.09      The administration of BDA is vested in a Board of Directors composed
of five members, each serving for a two-year period but eligible for reappoint-
ment. Two, representing Government's "Class A" shares, are appointed by the
President of Venezuela and the other three are elected by holders of "Class
B" shares. The President of the Bank, who is its chief Executive and also
the Chairman of the Board of Directors, is one of the two Board appointees.
*        The General Manager, appointed by the Board of Directors of the Bank, is



- 14 -
Secretary to the Board without voting right (BDA is described in greater
detail in Annex 9). BDA's President, a former Minister of Agriculture, is
involved in the day-to-day operations of BDA and has been substantially
responsible for its rapid development. Members of the Board, who are part-
time executives of BDA, each have extensive farming experience and are pro-
minent members of the Venezuela farming community. While having no banking
experience, they are conversant with commercial practices and are conscien-
tiously concerned with the sound development of BDA.
4.10      BDA's staff, headed by the General Manager, totalled 471 in May 1973,
of whom 238 were employed at head office and 233 in branches. There were 93
university graduates and 48 hold agricultural diplomas. BDA's present agri-
cultural and livestock technical staff with either university degree and/or
diploma includes two veterinarians, 23 livestock specialists and 27 agronomists
(Annex 9). While of good caliber, they would be inadequate in numbers to
appraise and supervise the proposed Project, particularly in regard to those
specialized in irrigation. It would be necessary, therefore, for BDA to employ
and train technical staff with qualifications acceptable to the Bank and
appoint not less than 15 project technicians, at least five of whom would be
irrigation engineers or agriculturists with experience in irrigation. The
appointment of the 15 technicians would be a condition of effectiveness. An
additional 10 technicians would have to be appointed within 12 months after
loanveffectiveness and 10 more within 24 months. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained on these matters. It is assumed that one field
technician appraises and supervises about 15 sub-loans.  The technicians, who
would report to their branch manager, would be necessary to execute the
proposed Project in addition to carrying out BDA's short-term lending and the
IBRD Livestock Project. Additional office facilities would not be needed,
since newly opened offices are presently underutilized.
Lending Policy
4.11      BDA's primary function is to provide short- (up to two years),
medium- (up to seven years), and long-term (up to 20 years) credit to
commercial-type agricultural enterprises. No minimum or maximum criteria as
to farm size are applied. BDA has, however, lent during its first three
years of operations mainly to farmers having a gross income of more than
Bs 70,000 (US$16,000) which corresponds to a net income of about US$4,000
to US$5,000 per annum. Assuming a family of four to five, this amounts to
a net income per capita of about US$1,000 annually. The proposed Project
would to a considerable extent also benefit medium-size farmers having a
gross income in the range of BS 30,000 to 70,000 (US$7,000 to US$16,000),
corresponding to a net family income of about US$2,000 to US$4,000 or some
US$500 to US$1,000 per member of the family. These smaller commercial
farmers would benefit from the Project in three different ways: (i) by
receiving a direct medium- or long-term loan from BDA for on-farm investments;
(ii) by participation in a farmers association receiving a group loan from
BDA, together with technical assistance; or (iii) by joining with neighbors



- 15 -
to borrow for joint irrigation investment in a water sharing arrangement.
Each of these forms of lending would be a new type of financing for BDA.
Under BDA's law direct loans to individuals are limited to Bs 500,000
(US$116,000) and guarantees or letters of credit to Bs 1 million (US$233,000).
In exceptional cases, the Directors are permitted to approve loans or
guarantees to associations or societies of commercial producers for certain
specified investments or for on-lending to individual members up to an amount
not exceeding 10% of BDA's paid-in capital and reserves. Loans may be secured
by (a) mortgage (real estate or chattel); (b) agrarian or industrial pledges;
(c) bonds and guarantees of third parties; and (d) agrarian debt bonds as
stipulated in the Agrarian Reform Law. Loans may not exceed two-thirds of
the market value of the security provided. Amortization schedules and grace
periods are determined in accordance with regulations issued from time to
time by the Board of Directors and take into account the borrowers' investment
program and repayment capacity.
4.12      Farmers Associations.  BDA has assigned a small unit headed by a
lawyer to investigate and formulate methods of establishment and operation
of farmers associations in order to develop a sound method whereby smaller
farmers, who as individuals would be precluded by lack of security or other
constraints, will be able to participate in BDA's lending programs. Over a
two-year period the unit has studied procedures in operation in other countries
and has evolved a system whereby groups of interested farmers, with geographical
or product affinity, will be formed into legally registered associations with
an "A" share and "B" share capital structure in the ratio 1:9.  BDA will
purchase the 'A' shares (it is limited to 10% equity participation in any one
company under the General Banking Law) while the 'B' share capital will be
subscribed by the farmer members. As owners of the 'A' share capital BDA will
have the right to appoint the Vice President of each association and to approve
the appointment of the General Manager. This system will enable BDA to provide
strong guidance to the associations while leaving overall control in the hands
of the members. To date, BDA has formed two such associations whose progress
will be carefully followed for some months so that the experience gained can
be utilized to rapidly expand the movement. The proposed Project would
finance a few investments in such associations.
4.13      Loan Procedures.  BDA's loan approval and administration methods
which are governed by comprehensive regulations are generally sound.
Approvals of all loans are based on appraisal reports prepared by BDA techni-
cians and, after a loan has been granted, supervision visits are made at appro-
priate intervals. Field staff, who are competent and hard-working, are re-
quired to estimate the value of the security offered and to report on the
creditworthiness and repayment capacity of the loan applicant in addition to
making a detailed assessment of the viability of the proposed investment.
Until recently, it has been the practice to make all loan approvals at the
Board of Director level in Caracas, reflecting a desire to properly assess
the competence of branch managers before granting them loan approval authority.
Loan committees are now being established at branch level, with the local



- 16 -
manager as chairman, and they will be permitted to approve loans within limits
which will be authorized for each branch by the Board of Directors. As of
May 1, 1973, the branches in Maracaibo, San Cristobal, Acarigua, and Calabozo
had authority to approve loans between Bs 50,000 and Bs 150,000 (US$13,000
to US$36,000).
4.14      BDA staff would assist sub-loan applicants in the preparation of
detailed investment programs including farm plans, income and expenditure
estimates, and cash flow projections and would appraise all sub-projects in
terms of incremental returns. Sub-loans, other than for agro-industrial
investment, would be approved at branch level provided branch authority were
adequate. Sub-loans in excess of branch authority but not exceeding Bs 500,000
would be approved in Caracas, while all sub-loans exceeding Bs 500,000 equiva-
lent by itself or together with any sub-loan to the same beneficiary would
require prior Bank approval. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
on these matters.
4.15      With regard to loans that include investments in irrigation from
groundwater and in land levelling, assurances were obtained that BDA would
require: (a) from the appropriate ministry, certification that water supplies
are adequate for the proposed farm plan considered and approval of each pro-
posed well site; and (b) from farmers, a satisfactory levelling map prepared
by a qualified engineer and that the levelling would be carried out under his
guidance. With regard to agro-industrial loans, assurances were obtained
from BDA that potential sub-borrowers, if necessary with the assistance of
consultants, would prepare detailed feasibility studies, covering the techni-
cal, organizational, financial and economic aspects of the sub-projects,
which would determine the soundness of the investment and the creditworthiness
of the applicants. Each proposed agro-industrial sub-project would be
submitted to the Bank for prior approval and BDA s loan financing under the
project could be as high as 80%, but the amount of lending, in each case,
would in the final analysis be determined on the adequacy of the debt/equity
ratio and the debt service capacity of the applicant.
Interest Rates
4.16      Interest rates on loans are set by the Board of Directors within
the limits permitted by the Central Bank.  Loans granted since September 1,
1971 bear interest at 9% per annum; loans issued prior to that date are
charged at 10% per annum. Interest on loans with a maturity of up to two
years is discounted at the beginning of each year. Interest on loans of more
than two years' maturity is charged annuallIy or semi-annually on the out-
standing balance. Loans made under the Project would cover up to 80% of
investment cost and would carry an effective interest rate of 10% per annum,
which would include a 1% per annum charge for technical assistance costs.
Assurances were obtained on this matter during negotiations. The interest
rate to _ charged under the Project is justified for the following reasons:
(i) the inflation rate in Venezuela is 3.5%; (ii) farmers have sufficient
price incentives zo borrow for Project investments; and (iii) the financial
rates of returns are high. BDA's appraisal mechanism would ensure that
investments would be in line with Government's cowmodity price policy.



- 17 -
4.17      Cash flows of typical investments under the Project indicate that
the following repayment periods for sub-loans would be appropriate but, in
no case, would a sub-loan under the Project be made for a period of less
than five years:
Medium- and Long-term               Grace Period  Repayment Period  Total
Lending Categories                  -----(in Years)-
1.   Investments for annual crop
production                              2               8            10
2.   Investments for perennial
crops                                   5               9            14
3.   Agro-industry                             2               8            10
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these periods would not be
exceeded without the Bank's prior approval.
Accounts and Audit
4.18      BDA's law requires that two auditors (Comisarios) be appointed by
the General Assembly of shareholders to audit its operation. In addition,
BDA employs a local firm of chartered accountants which carries out a thorough
semi-annual audit. Both the Comisarios and the accountants provide compre-
hensive half-yearly reports on BDA's operation and accounts. Under the
General Banking Law, BDA, in common with all banks operating in Venezuela,
is subject to audit and supervision by the Superintendent of Banks. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that BDA would keep separate loan
accounts for the proposed Project, that these accounts and its general accounts
would continue to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and that the-audited accounts and auditors' report would be sent to the Bank
within four months of the end of BDA's financial year. BDA is well organized
with a competent staff and positive leadership. Its accounting and reporting
systems are sound and it is considered to be a suitable channel to administer
the proposed Project.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND SUB-BORROWERS' BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Under the Project, incremental production generated from investment
financed would consist mainly of maize, kidney and black beans (caraotas),
rice, sorghum, groundnuts, citrus (oranges and grapefruit) and copra. This
would be consistent with the Government's National Plan which aims at import
substitution and/or export diversification. Depending on future Government



- 18 -
price policy, the Project may also generate the production of sesame and some            S
other products which are not foreseen to a large extent at this time. How-
ever, this might change as participating farmers are quite flexible in changing
their cropping pattern. It is, for example, expected that farmers would re-
duce the area planted to sesame after having secured irrigation facilities
since other crops are relatively better priced. While it is not expected that
the area planted to rice would materially increase, expected higher yields
would generate incremental production.
5.02      At full development, it is estimated that farmers would produce
incremental amounts due to Project investments of about: 136,000 ton of maize;
5,000 ton of kidney beans and 27,000 ton of black beans (caraotas); 35,000
ton of rice; 22,000 ton of groundnuts; 20,000 ton of citrus (oranges and
grapefruit); and 5,000 ton of copra.
Marketing and Prices
5.03      For most agricultural commodities to be produced under the proposed
Project, Venezuelan prices are above world market prices. One of the reasons
for this is the petroleum-based exchange rate, which is considered overvalued
regarding the agricultural sector. However, in 1973 the difference between
world market and local prices had narrowed considerably due to rising world
market prices and only slightly increasing local prices controlled by Govern-
ment. For example, the domestic price for long grain rice was only 8% higher
than comparable world market offers, while the difference in 1972 was up to
40%. Also, the domestic price for copra is only 5% higher than that on the
world market, while prices for sesame are even slightly lower. Similar trends
can be observed with feed grain prices.
5.04      The IV National Plan (1970-1974) proposed a complete revision of the
support program to create better production incentives for the agricultural
sector but observe changing market conditions. The revisions proposed have
not yet been fully implemented, but some adjustments of some overpriced pro-
ducts have already been made. From experiences gained, Government intends to
handle its price support and subsidy programs with much more flexibility so as
to adjust minimum prices more quickly to the changing supply and demand situa-
tion and to prevent distortion in resource flow and demand. In 1973, announ-
ced support prices for the main products produced under the Project were
in US$ equivalent per ton: maize 112; sorghum 98; black beans 325; kidney
beans 225; rice long grain 197; rice short grain 121; groundnuts 349; and
copra 288. Prices for oranges are not regulated and fluctuated between 58
and 81. Government support prices encouraged production, particularly in re-
gard to rice, corn and groundnuts. However, the Agricultural Marketing Corpora-
tion sustained considerable losses in 1972, mainly in its support program for
corn and groundnuts.
5.05      The incremental production arising from Project investments would
be consumed internally with the exception of citrus, of which a small portion
would be exported. The existing marketing system should be able to handle



- 19 -
the increased production due to Project investments which would be a rela-
tively small fraction of the sector's production. MIarketing arrangements
have improved lately due to the Government's Agricultural Marketing Cor-
poration although there still exist some shortcomings. However, producers
have benefited from the country's well developed infrastructure; particularly
small farmers receive assistance. For example, the Agricultural Marketing
Corporation pays the transportation and supplies the bags for the corn pro-
duced by small farmers. For several products, such as groundnuts, sesame,
and rice, Government efforts have resulted in the establishment of marketing
channels, which directly link the producer and processor. The Government
Marketing Corporation has its storage facilities adequately placed throughout
the agricultural areas of the country, and the marketing system is expected
to make further improvements as a result of public investments programmed
for these types of services.
Sub-borrowers' Benefits
5.06      On the basis of investment costs, yield and price assumptions, four
illustrative investment models (Annex 12) have been worked out to analyze
the financial benefits expected from different items to be financed under the
Project. The financial rates of return are estimated to be about 45% for
investments in annual crop production in the Llanos Orientales, 41% for annual
crop production in the Llanos Occidentales, 52% for copra production, and 16%
for citrus production. These financial rates are high, partly because of
high domestic prices, but mostly because of the provision for irrigation on
an already existing farming structure resulting in high incremental returns.
They should be more than adequate, assuring incentives to prospective investors
under the Project. To test the sensitivity of financial returns to varying
costs against the "best estimate," it has been assumed that annual costs
would increase by 10% without a subsequent rise in farmgate prices of farm
products. Under this assumption, the financial rates for the above models
would be 35%, 30%, 39%, and 15% respectively, thus still acceptable. There-
fore, it can be concluded that returns should provide sufficient incentives
to farmers to undertake the intended investments.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
6.01      The Bank loan would enable BDA to provide medium- and long-term
credit facilities to medium and large farmers, and to a few associations of
commercial smaller-type farmers, mainly for: (i) investments in on-farm
irrigation, drainage and land development; (ii) the establishment of citrus,
coconut and other perennial crops; and (iii) investments in related agro-
industries. This Project would complement BDA's long-term lending program
to the livestock sector, which is assisted by a Bank loan for US$11 million
equivalent (Loan 807-VE). Commercial farmers have no other medium- and
long-term credit funds available since (a) BDA does not have sufficient



- 20 -
funds available to lend on these terms; (b) the other Agricultural Bank (BAP)
lends at subsidized interest rates (less than 4%) to small and non-commercial
farmers only; and (c) commercial banks are allowed to lend only up to five
years. Actually the latters' agricultural portfolio is mainly on short term
with only 7% of outstanding loans being lent at terms of two to five years.
6.02      The lack of medium- and long-term credit has resulted in low private
investments in the commercial sector of agriculture, particularly if compared
with other sectors in the economy. The situation has been aggravated because
commercial credit funds have been more attracted to other sectors offering
lower risks. Shortage of lending funds on longer terms has prevented invest-
ments in irrigation and drainage in areas where inadequate and/or poorly dis-
tributed rainfall makes agricultural production risky without such facilities.
The proposed Project would assist Government efforts to provide investment
credit to 'commercial farmers and processing entrepreneurs. In addition,
the employment of 35 technicians and the introduction of appraisal methods
on the basis of incremental return, together with a continued dialogue through
the Bank's supervision missions, would have an institution building effect in
regard to BDA, which is a relatively young bank with lending experience only
since 1970.
6.03      Agricultural growth has been about 4.8% per annum over the last
10 years, but only 3.4% during the last 4 years. Investments of the kind to
be financed under the Project would help raise agricultural productivity and
would be in accordance with the targets of the IV National Plan (1970-1974).
Many Project beneficiaries would be farmers who settled in the 1950's in-
cluding a number of skilled workers from the petroleum fields who were attrac-
ted to farming by the possibilities offered by groundnut production. These
are quite progressive farmers providing employment in newly opened lands,
particularly in the Llanos Orientales where the demand for labor in the
petroleum fields has declined.
6.04      There are about 12,000 large farmers in Venezuela with an annual
gross income of more than US$16,000 equivalent, of which about 4,000 are
already clients of BDA. Another 50,000 medium-size farmers having a gross
income of US$7,000 to US$16,000 equivalent would become potential clients
under the proposed Project, particularly those grouped together in farmer
associations formed with the assistance of BDA, or by joining with neighbors
to borrow for joint irrigation investment in a water sharing arrangement.
Each of these forms of lending would be a new type of financing for BDA. This
would also include some smaller farmers having a gross income of less than
US$7,000 equivalent annually. There are about 260,000 farmers of this group
which is attended by the other Agricultural Bank (BAP). The administrative
capacity of BAP is fully occupied, mainly in handling an IDB-financed loan
to land reform beneficiaries, who receive long-term loans at heavily subsidized
interest rates of less than 4% per annum (para 2.10).
0



- 21 -
6.05      The Project would assist medium-size farmers who have recently
settled in newly opened areas and the impact at the managerial level would
be significant. Due to the wage differential between urban and rural com-
munities it is important to consolidate medium-size farms because there is
a danger that they may disappear if they are not able to increase their
incomes. Those farmers who would benefit from the Project are different
from the traditional "Latifundista", characterizing some other Latin American
countries. The proposed Project beneficiaries live on their farms and have
endured the hardship of newly opened areas; they have not acquired their
land through inheritances or other forms of perpetuating an unjust land
tenure structure; on the contrary, they have expanded the agricultural
frontier. At full development, the Project would create employment for an
additional 3,000 semi-skilled and unskilled farm workers. About 90% of
these jobs would be created during Project investment, while the remainder
would be created when the coconut and other orchards reach full development
(after 7 to 9 years). Those jobs would be particularly important in the
Llanos Orientales, where the unemployment rate is high.
6.06      The economic rate of return has been calculated on the basis of
projected world market prices, plus an allowance for transportation costs
for the major agricultural products expected to be produced under the
Project, with the exception of beans, which have been regarded as "non-trade-
able" commodities and for which current prices have been used. The Project's
overall rate of return to the economy is estimated at 19% (Annex 13). At
full development, the Project is expected to generate annually an incremental
production of about US$37 million equivalent. Tax revenues to Government
are expected to amount to about US$1.7 million equivalent per year.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  the Government would provide BDA with Bs 37 million free of cost
on an agreed time schedule and bear the exchange risk (paras 3.11
and 3.12);
(b)  BDA would, by means of a bond issue, obtain Bs 25 million and
transfer the additional share capital generated through Project
lending to the Project account (para 3.11);
(c)  BDA would recruit and train 35 project technicians and appraise
sub-loan applications in terms of incremental returns (paras 4.10
and 4.14);
.



- 22 -
(d)  send to the Bank for prior approval sub-loan applications in                 0
excess of Bs 500,000 and for agro-industrial investments of
any amount (paras 4.14 and 4.15); and
(e)  make sub-loans under the Project at an effective interest rate
of 10% and keep separate loan accounts for the proposed Project
(paras 4.16 and 4.18).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be (i) that BDA had
paid Bs 25 million to the Project Account; and (ii) BDA had appointed 15
Project technicians (paras 3.11 and 4.10).
7.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$22 million for a term of 14 years, including a four-year grace period.
October 3. 1973



ANNEX I
Page 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Background
General
1.       Venezuela  the sixth largest country in Latin America, covers an
area of 912,050 kmn. It is situated in the northern tier of South America
and is bordered on the west by Colombia, on the east by Guyana, and on the
south by Brazil. To the north it has a coastline of 2,813 km on the Carib-
bean Sea. Its population is estimated to be about 10.7 million and has been
growing at an annual rate of 3.4% between 1961 and 1971. Approximately half
of its population live in cities of more than 100,000 inhabitants. Its labor
force was estimated to be about 3.2 million in 1971 of which 20% was engaged
in agriculture, a percentage that had declined rapidly since 1940 when it
was 60%.
2.       Venezuela has a wide range of climates.  The most important dif-
ferences are determined by altitude.  Most of the land, however, is located
in the flat tropical and subtropical zones.  The rainfall distribution is
characterized by a "winter" wet season from April to November and a "summer"
dry season from December to March. This dry season is less pronounced in
the mountains and piedmont zones than it is in the low lands. There are three
main areas in the country: (i) the mountain area to the west, which is known
as the Andean region; (ii) the flat range of the Llanos on the south and
east of the country, which also includes the Orinoco Valley; and (iii) the
flat coastal areas, of which the most important one is the area around Lake
Maracaibo. Throughout the Andes and the coastal ranges, agricultural produc-
tion is restricted to valleys and gentle slopes. Production is concentrated
in these heavily populated mountainous and piedmont zones in the north as
well as in the west. On the other hand, the vast flat and undulated areas
of the Llanos and the Orinoco Valley are thinly populated. The Llanos consists
of two distinct parts: the western plains and the eastern plains. The zone
called Llanos Occidentales is the northwestern part of a large internal plain
to the east of the Venezuelan Andes and to the south of the coast range. It
comprises the three States of Cojedes, Portuguesa, and Barinas (see Maps).
Before World War II, this region was exploited to a very limited extent; over
the last thirty years, however, settlers have cleared and cropped some
640,000 ha. The eastern plains (Llanos Orientales) comprise the State of
Monagas and Anzoategui. The most important agricultural zones in the eastern
plains lie around Maturin, the capital of the State of Monagas, and around
the Mesa de Guanipa. These areas have recently been transformed into so
called agricultural centers. Their development has been based on the production
of peanuts, which have been promoted under a Government plan launched in 1965.
South of the Orinoco, there is little agricultural development and the potential



ANNEX I
Page 2
of this area lies largely in forestry. The flatlands around Lake Maracaibo
occupy a total area of about 640,000 ha.  In this area, some agricultural
development has taken place but excessive rainfall and the drainage from the
Andes on the flat ranges impose some constraints on the development of the
region.
3.       For agricultural purposes, land use is classified as follows:
Area              %
(in '000 ha)
Permanent Crops                                 653             2.5
Annual and Semi-Permanent Crops               1,025             3.9
Fallow                                       2,447              9.3
Cultivated Pasture                           2,748            10.5
Natural Pasture                             13,958             53.2
Forest                                       4,476             17.1
Other                                           908             3.5
Total Area:             26,215           100.0
Source: Data from Agricultural Census, 1961.
Agriculture and the Economy
4.       Despite a GNP per capita of about US$1,000 and a relatively low
contribution of agriculture to the total product (6.5% in 1972), Venezuela
shows some characteristics of a country at an early stage of development.
First, the agricultural sector still retains an important fraction of the
labor force (20% in 1971). Second, there is a skew distribution of income
and a great difference between rural and urban incomes.  Third, as far as
productivity is concerned, the agricultural sector lags behind the rest of
the economy. During the 1960-1969, period, productivity of the agricultural
worker hardly represented 25% of the mean agregate value per worker in the
country.
5.       During the last 10 years the agricultural sector has been growing
at a rate of 4.8% while GNP has grown at an annual rate of 4.0 to 4.5%.
The sector's rate of growth, however, has declined during the last five years



ANNEX 1
Page 3
to about an annual rate of about 3.4%. The value of agricultural production
in 1972 was US$1,102 million equivalent of which US$536 million originated
from the livestock sector (49%); about US$461 million from the crop sector
(42%); and the remaining US$105 million from fisheries, forestry, and other
products (9%).
6.       Venezuela has an agricultural trade deficit.  Agricultural imports
amount annually to about US$80 million equivalent. This compares to about
US$40 million exports, of which coffee, cocoa, sugar, bananas and plantains
are the main products. The main agricultural imports are wheat, cattle,
fruits, vegetables, animal products, sorghum and maize. In general,
Venezuela has been successful in import substitution of rice, milk, poultry,
eggs and sugar. Agricultural exports represent about 2% of the country's
total and imports 12% respectively.
Agricultural Production
7.       The area and production of Venezuela's main crops in 1971 are as
follows:
Crop                             Area      Production      Yield
(ha)        (ton)        (ton/ha)
Rice (paddy)                   112,626       153,038         1.36
Mayze                          587,702       713,486         1.21
Beans (caraota)                 75,546         27,253        0.36
Cassava                         40.157       322,724         8.04
Potatoes                        13,841       115,178         8.32
Bananas                         53,425       988,875        18.51
Plantains                       61,394       286,648         4.67
Oranges                         28,913       192,308         6.65
Sesame                         169,308        93,937         0.56
Cotton                          46,179        42,629        0.92
Coconut                         19,380       151,221         7.80
Peanuts                         11,831        13,392         1.13
Coffee                         288,120        58,385         0.20
Cocoa                           70,870        18,953         0.27
Sugarcane                       67,275    5,180,175         77.00
Tobacco                          9,888        13,755         1.39
Source: Anuario Estadistico, Ministerio de Fomento.
Basic Problems of Agriculture In Venezuela
8.        Despite the fact that the agricultural sector makes a relatively
small contribution to Venezuela's economy, the social importance of agriculture



ANNEX 1
Page 4
0
through its effects on employment and regional development is still
considerable. The basic policy problem, then, is to define a set of
agricultural policies which bring into balance the needs of a commercial
agricultural sector and the social problems associated with rural poverty.
Because the exchange rate is largely determined by the highly efficient
petroleum industry, other sectors are negatively affected by an overvalued
exchange rate. The rate of exchange and the lack of compensatory policies,
such as export subsidies, have limited the growth of agricultural production
not only for the domestic market but also for export. In economic terms,
the agricultural sector is at a disadvantage compared to the rest of the
economy. The annual return on total fixed investment in agriculture, exclud-
ing land, has averaged around 7.5% countrywide compared to 16.0-22.0% in industry.
9.       Another problem is price policy.  Government intervention in the
market has distorted the flow of resources within agriculture. While the
price of rice and maize is fixed at a relatively high level, the subsidy on
wheat imports, which makes it relatively cheap, has led to a disequilibrium
in the supply and demand for cereals. As a result, land has not been utilized
efficiently. A further problem is the lack of a flexibility in the price
support program versus changing market conditions. In general, the terms of
trade have been deteriorating somewhat.
10.      Another major problem is the lack of long-term credit.  The total
amount of institutional agricultural credit corresponds to about 15% of the
agricultural output at farm gate prices and most of these resources are for
short-term loans. Therefore, without long-term credit, private investment
in agriculture has been low compared to that in other sectors. This situation
has been aggravated because commercial credit has been attracted more by the
higher profits and lower risks offered by other sectors.
11.      Climate conditions in the form of inadequate or poorly distributed
rainfall affect large areas of Venezuela. In the Llanos Occidentales, as
well as in the area south of Lake Maracaibo and the Central Plains, there
exist serious drainage problems. In the Llanos Orientales, there are problems
during the dry season, which limit cropping to the rainy season. Where
conditions of soil and topography present a real agricultural potential,
considerable investment in irrigation or drainage is often needed to bring
land into production.
12.      The proposed Project has been designed to help overcome the problems
of the lack of credit and the problems caused by an irregular distribution of
rainfall. First, the Project would provide BDA with resources for long-term
credit; second, the Project would provide financing for investment in
drainage and irrigation in order to increase the cropping intensity of the
land as well as its productivity. The problems of price policy are discussed
between Venezuela and the Bank, following the 1973 Economic Mission to that
country.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
National Development Plan
13.       The National Planning Office (CORDIPLAN) has drawn up several
proposals, described below, as the basis for future agricultural policy
(IV National Plan, 1970-1974).
(a) Import substitution program: It seeks to continue to reduce
agricultural imports. Government prices and policies will
be adjusted according to the substitution possibilities
of each commodity.
(b) Export diversification: It proposes to encourage the pro-
duction of those commodities with export potential.
(c) Price policy: It proposes a complete revision of the price
support program to generate production incentives in accord-
ance with market conditions.
(d) Marketing: It proposes to implement a marketing program
to improve the transport, storage, and sale of agricultural
produce.
(e) Irrigation: It proposes a continued emphasis on irrigation
and reclamation projects. Priority will be given to small
projects and to the efficient exploitation of existing works.
(f) Land Reform: It proposes an emphasis on land titling and
consolidation of existing settlements instead of an expan-
sion of the program.
14.       The performance of the Plan cannot yet be fully evaluated, since
it is still too early to measure its impact on the economy. Nevertheless,
it appears that the target rate of growth was too optimistic (7.3% between
1970-74) since growth rate has fallen in the last two years below the level
achieved in the last decade. The proposals on price policy have not yet
been implemented and market distortions remain despite the proposed policy
stated in the Plan. Large efforts, however, have been made in generating
projects which are consistent with other objectives. The main criticism,
then, to be made of this Plan, is that in its implementation very little has
been done to correct those policies that put agriculture at a disadvantage
with respect to other sectors.
15.       Public efforts in the agricultural sector have been oriented to-
wards the achievements of social objectives. A vast program of land reform
was launched in 1960. Within the past 11 years, about 6.0 million ha of
land have been affected by the program and approximately 196,000 families



ANNEX I
Page 6
have received land. H.owever, out of this total, about 66,000 have abandoned
the land. In order to consolidate the land reform settlements, the Govern-
ment is now embarking on a Bs 800 million (US$181 million equivalent) Integral
Agricultural Development Program (PRIDA) in part financed by IDB (US$75 million)
in four selected areas. The program deals with 50,000 campesino families, and
it is absorbing most of the administrative capacity available existing in the
country, which leaves little or no room for additional programs dealing with
the campesino sector. Total public investments in agriculture between 1970
and 1974 has been projected by CORDIPLAN at Bs1,805 million (US$420 million),
44% of which has been earmarked for the PRIDA Program.
Recent Performance and Future Prospects
16.      Prospects for significant increases in the production of traditional
agricultural export commodities are not good, but they are better for non-
traditional commodities.  Coffee production has remained static in recent
years, and despite its export subsidy, production may not increase significantly,
As far as cocoa is concerned, prospects are a little better; however, the
profit realized by the producer is insufficient to attract enough investment
to generate an expanded production. At present, agricultural production of
non-traditional commodities begins to appear as a promising enterprise.
Industrial crops such as cotton, sesame, peanuts, corn, and sugar will
continue to have good prospects. It is possible that, if the Congress
approves the draft laws creating an export subsidy scheme and an export
financing fund, high-value crops such as fruits and winter vegetables could
become financially attractive and could generate remunerative employment.
The prospects for a diversification of exports by means of establishing the
production of high-value commodities with a specialized market exists. In
this respect, the well developed infrastructure and human element should
provide some comparative advantages.
17.      The proposed Project is consistent with the objectives outlined in
the IV National Plan. It would make the import substitution of fats and
oils economically feasible because of the potential increase in productivity
in the production of these commodities. If the export subsidy bill is approved
by Congress, it not only also be feasible to produce these commodities for the
domestic market, but it will also be feasible to produce these commodities for
export. This is consistent with the export diversification program.
Institutional structure
18.      Public administration in agriculture is based on six principal
organizations. The Ministry of Agriculture is repponsible for overall
development of the sector. The National Agrarian Institute (IAN) administers
the programs for land reform and land settlement. The Agricultural and
Livestock Bank (BAP) and the Agricultural Development Bank (BDA) are the



ANNEX 1
Page 7
principal sources of agricultural credit. The Agricultural Marketing
Corporation (CHA) is in charge of executing the price support program. In
addition to these institutions, the Hydraulic Works Division of the
Ministry of Public Works is responsible for investments in irrigation and
land reclamation.
Research and Extension
19.      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for research and extension
work. There are nine regional suborganizations which are staffed by about
900 professionals. Research in agronomy and livestock is centralized in two
agencies at Maracay, the Agricultural Research Center and the Veterinary
Research Center which, together supervise 14 field stations. However, specific
research programs are undertaken by the Universities of Maracay, Maracaibo,
Jusepin, Barquisimeto, and Merida; as well as by other organizations such as
Servicios Shell, Mendoza, Creole, and Ford Foundations. Extension services
are supplied from 67 nationwide offices, with major emphasis on crop production.
The Ministry has five regional experimental stations: two in Zulia, one in
Lara, one in Apure, and one in Guarico. Extension workers from the Ministry
are mainly concerned with small farmers and agrarian reform beneficiaries,
while extension workers from specialized agencies work closely with commercial
farmers.
20.      There are several important autonomous institutions which deal with
technical assistance in specialized commodities.  The Regional Maize Fund has
a technical assistance program and research projects on its own farms. The
Fund for Development of Sesame Seed is a semi-governmental agency which provides
technical assistance for sesame growers. The Fund also has an agreement with
the Ministry's experimental stations for specific research programs. Another
important institution is the National Cotton Growers Association. This
association provides technical assistance and grants credit to cotton growers.
The Association is also involved in ginning operations.
21.      Agronomy and Veterinary Science courses are given in several Venezuelan
universities. However, there are no specific programs in agricultural economics,
farm planning, or farm management. From 1963 to 1968, about 340 students were
graduated in agronomy and about 120 in veterinary science, with an additional
920 receiving diplomas in a variety of agricultural courses. At present, the
Government is the main employer of these trained people. BDA provides also
technical assistance to its borrowers. For this purpose, a technical unit of
well qualified technicians has been established.
July 6, 1973
*






VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Value of Agricultural Production. 1968-72
(Millions of bolivares at 1968 prices)
4~                                                                                               2,,   Distribution   Average Annual
1-                                         1968         1969        1970         1971         19731'    in 1972           Growth
% Z        1962-72 1968-72
TOTAL AGRICULTURAL                  4,117.3      4,323.1      4,585.       4586.        4.739.7      100.0          4.9     3.4
TOTAL CROPS                         1,877.0      1,889.2      2.022.6     1,981.6      1,983.9        i.2           LL      1L6i
Cereals                            411.8        409.6        414.7        371.0        359.1       7.6          4.1    -3.6
Legumes                             64.8         65.3        65.4         63.5         64.1        1.4          2.5    -0.5
Roots and Tubers                   282.8        270.2       278.2        265.6        271.6        5.7          1.4    -1.0
Oilseeds and Fibers                175.5        188.9       245.1        235.4        214.2        4.5          8.4      6.0
Fruits                             391.3       418.8        43B.8        431.0        447.0        9.4          4.7      2.9
Vegetables                         102.0         92.2        112.5       115.2        117.2        2.5          5.1      5.1
Other Industrials                  448.8        444.2       467.9        499.9        510.7       10.8          2.5      3.9
LIVESTOCK                           1,871.8      2,062.0      2,184.5     2,177.5      2,305.0       48.6          5.9      4.7
Milk                               457.8       480.6         504.7       527.4        553.8       11.7          5.9      4.8
Beef                               779.1        890.0        930.6       881.6        939.3       19.8          5.1      3.6
Pork                               205.5        232.0       242.0        242.7        256.6        5.4          4.3      4.9
Poultry                            196.7        205.9       226.3        234.5        263.4        5.5          9.9      7.5
Other meats                         22.3         21.6         22.0        22.9         23.3        0.5          0.3      1.5
Eggs                               210.4        231.9        258.9       268.4        268.6        5.7          8.7      6.4
FISHERY                                97.3        103.4         97.4        130.8        140.2        3.0          6.1    10.5
FORESTRY                               73.4         66.4         70.3         77.4         80.9        1.7          3.6     3.6
NON-REGISTERED PRODUCTION             197.8        208.1        21D.4       219.2         229.7       4.8          4.8      3.9              >
1/ Provisional
Source: Based on data from the Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria.



V E N E Z U E L A
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Value of Principal Agricultural Imports, 1967-71
(Millions of bolivares)
Distri-
1967            1968             1969            1970             1971         bution
% _1971)
TOTAI IMPORTS                      5,632.0         6,532.0          6,749.0         7,382.0          8,252.0        9.6
AGRICULTURAL IMPORTS                  757.9            719.3           844.7            885.6           794.1      100.0
PLANT PRODUCTS                     534.9           556.9            565.8           613.0            573.7       72.2
Wheat                              221.9           209.2            196.0           190.9            180.2       22.7
Corn                                 1.8            34.9             32.5            33.4             31.5        4.0
Sorghum                              0.5             0.7              0.9            39.5             57.2        7.2
Other grains                        42.7            45.8             44.7            46.7             19.3        2.4
Beans and other legumes             38.8            34.3             34.6            38.1             34.2        4.3
Oilseeds                            40.7            31.8             32.3            39.3             34.3        4.3
Edible oils                         36.7            58.5             48.7            37.2             28.4        3.6
Cotton                              25.6            22.8             33.4            22.3             16.8        2.1
Fruits and vegetables               57.6            57.2             59.2            80.3             78.0        9.8
Others                              68.6         - 61.7              83.5            85.3             93.8       11.8
ANIMAL PRODUCTS-/                  140.5             74.7           149.7            101.2            74.2         9.3
Dairy products                      82.7            39.1            109.2            62.0             42.6        5.4
Pork                                22.8            15.0             15.6            14.6              2.6        0.3
Others                              35.0            20.6             24.9            24.6             29.0        3.6
FISH PRODUCTS                       10.5             5.0             21.0            24.9             29.8        3.8
Fish meal                            3.7             0.1             13.9             17.0            20.6        2.6
Others                               6.8             4.9              7.1              7.9             9.2        1.2
FORESTRY PRODUCTS                   72.0            82.7            108.2           146.5            116.4       14.7
Pulp and paper                      46.8            55.3             67.1           107.3             88.8       11.2
Others                              25.2            27.4             41.1             39.2            27.6         3s5
1/ Excluding uncontrolled imports of cattle from Colombia with an estimated value of Bs 120 and 180 millions
per year.
Source: Direccion General Estadistica and Banco Central.
*                                             ^                                                             ^~~



V 13 N E Z U E L A
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Value of Principal Agricultural Exports. 1967-71
(Millions of bolivares)
2                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Distrf-
1967           1968            1969             1970            1971          bution
1?1                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% (1971)
'     TOTAL EXPORTS                     11,155.5        11,168.8        11,109.1        11,699.5        13,770.1          1.5-
AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS                 182.8           161.5           169.9           243.4           208.2       100.0
PLANT PRODUCTS                    159.7           136.7           139.9           193.3           144.5        69.4
Coffee and subproducts             62.9            32.6            64.1            57.6            66.1        31,8
Cacao and subproducts              32.4            34.7            33.7            32.6            26.1        12.5
Sugar and subproducts              20.0            29.1            16.2            25.7            25.9        12.4
Rice                               37.0            24.0             5.0            32.9             ---         ---
Bananas and plantains               4.5             3.8             4.6             6.5             5.9         2.8
Other Fruits                        2.4             2.8             3.1             5.4             8.1         3.9
Vegetables                          0.5             0.7             1.0             1.1             1.4         0,7
Others                              ---             9.0            12.2            31.5            11.0         5.3
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS                  5.2             4.9             3.8             4.3             3.7         1.8
FISH PRODUCTS                      17.2            19.2            25.8            45.4            59.7        28.7
FORESTRY PRODUCTS                   0.7             0.7             0.4             0.4             0.3         0.1
1/  Agricultural exports as percentage of total exports.
Source:  Direccion General de Estadistica y Banco Central.                                                                         w  I



ANNEX 1
Table 4
VELEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Land Use. Land Tenure, and Farm-Size Structure, 1961
LAV-D USE                                Area                  Distributior
(1,000 ha)                 (Percent)
Total Land Area                       88.205               100.0
Total Area in Farms                   26,0o5                29-5         100.0
Permanent Crops                        652                 0.7           2.5
Arrnual and Semi-Permanent Crops     1,017                 1.2           3.9
Cultivated Pasture                   2,761                 3.1          10.6
Natural Pasture                     13,847                15.7          53.2
Fallow                               2,435                 2.8           9.4
Forest                               4,364                 4.9         16.8
Other                                  929                 1.1           3.6
LAND TE! URE                            Farms                       Area
1,000 Units      Percent       Million ha    Percent
Total                        320.1            100.0          26.0         100.0           0
Owner Operated             125.6            39.2           21.2         81.5
Tenant Operated             41.2            12.9            o.6           2.3
Squatter Operated          124.1            38.8            2.8         10.8
Other Forms                 29.2              9.1           1.4           5.4
FARM SIZE STRUCTURE           Farms                Farmland         Cultivated Land 1
1,000                Million             Million
Units   Percent        Ha       Percent    Ha           Percert
Total                 315.5fi-/100.0         26.0       100.0     5.2            100.0
Less than 5 ha    155.6      49.3         0.4         1.4     0.3              5.9
5 -    19 ha       99.2      31.4         0.9         3.4     0.7             12.4
20 -    99 ha       40.2      12.8         1.5         5.9     0.8             15.2
lO -  499 ha        13.5       4.3         2.7        10.4     1.0             19.1
500 -   999 ha         2.8      0.9         1.8         7.1     0.5             10.3
1,000 - 2,499 ha         2.3      07   35                1R.3     0.7             13
2,500 and more          1.9       0          15.2        5 .5     1.2             23.
1/  Including arnual and permanent crops, artificial pastures and fallow.
7/  Excluding 4,617 units without agricultural land.
Source: Censo Agropecuario, 1961
August 21, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page I
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Livestock Sector
Production
1.       Government estimates that the number of cattle increased from 5.8
million head in 1950 to 8.9 million head in 1972. At the same time, the
number of hogs increased from 1.4 million head in 1950 to about 1.7 million
head. The poultry stocks increased from 10.4 million in 1950 to 20.3 million.
2.       Grazing land increased from 13.5 million in 1950 to 15.4 million
ha in 1971. The most important development, however, is the increase in
the area of cultivated pastures, which increased from 1.6 million ha in 1950
to about 11.9 million ha in 1971. As a result of pasture improvement, the
number of ha per head decreased from 2.3 in 1950 to 1.7 in 1971.
Consumption
3.       Beef and veal production did not increase rapidly enough to keep
pace with the increase of per capita consumption of these two meats in
Venezuela during the 1960's.  In 1972, per capita consumption of beef was
estimated to be about 21 kg.  This level of consumption is similar to those
of Colombia and Chile but far below the red meat consumed by countries with
similar levels of per capita GDP. Per capita consumption of beef was limited
by domestic supplies during the late 1960's. This shortage was reflected
in domestic prices which were about 24 to 60% higher than comparable quota-
tions in Colombia.
Government Activity
4.       Government efforts to expand the domestic supply of animal protein
have been concentrated on cattle production; intensively in the mountain
valleys of Zulia and extensively in the Llanos and eastern regions. These
efforts have consisted partly of increasing direct Government assistance to
the livestock sector in the form of veterinary services, artificial insemina-
tion, the raising of breeding stock and the construction of slaughter houses.
Through the Livestock Development Plan, the Government expanded the supply
of credit for investment in the sector. The Livestock Development Plan was
introduced in 1958, with authorization to spend Bs 650 million (US$150 mil-
lion) over five years. Despite Government expenditures in livestock devel-
opment, production grew at 5.1%, which is not satisfactory to close the supply
gap. Although official statistics suggest that Venezuela is self-sufficient
in red meat, there is a constant trade of contraband cattle from Colombia,
estimated at between 200,000 and 300,000 head annually.
.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.       Significant progress has been made, however, in dairy.  As a
result of the stimulus given by the Government for the improvement of the
herd, milk production has shown a considerable increase from 173.6 million
liters in 1950 to 841.2 million liters in 1971. Pasteurized milk increased
from 25.5 million liters in 1950 to 301.1 million liters in 1971; and pow-
dered milk production increased from 1,536 ton in 1950 to 52,718 ton in 1971.
These levels of production now supply about 90% of milk consumption.
IBRD's Livestock Development Project
6.       On March 7, 1972, the Executive Directors of the Bank approved a
US$11.0 million loan to Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario. This was the
first project financed by the Bank in Venezuela's agricultural sector. The
project is designed to increase beef production through better utilization of
certain areas of pasture lands and to improve the productivity in the
national herd. The project provides long-term funds and technical services
for about 400 commercial ranchers. The total project costs are estimated at
US$39.0 million. The Bank loan covers the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent (28%), and the balance of the financing is provided by the Government
(39%), ranchers (18%), and BDA (15%).
7.       The project has been designed for medium and large ranchers (herd
of 200 to 500 breeding cows). Four principal types of production units are
expected to be financed:
(a) breeding/growing ranches where density is low, mainly in
the Llanos region;
(b) breeding/fattening ranches in the more developed areas,
mainly in the Andean foothills and the Lake of Maracaibo
region;
(c) mixed beef breeding/fattening/dairy ranches in areas with
more intensive production regions, mainly in the Lake
Maracaibo region; and
(d) countrywide purebred beef cattle breeding centers.
8.       In the past, many agricultural and livestock activities in
Venezuela were isolated from market forces through various forms of price
support programs and subsidized credit. This project represents a departure
from these practices, as loans financed by the project carry an interest
rate which about covers the cost of money (i.e. 9%). After a slow start
during the first six months following signing of the loan agreement, the
project has now gained momentum and is progressing well.
July 6, 1973



VE EZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRODUCITON AND VALUE OF LIVESTOCK ?RODUCTIO1
[Jnic                   1968          1969          1970          1971           197?/a
Bef- ,                  li.n. of Hends
^   Beef/b        iiillions of Peads           11,180.5       1,382.7       i,35b.7       1,335.&        1,423.-
Hows                       81 621.9                             928.0         96d.c          971.0       1,0d6.6
H      c-oaa Hs                                          382.5         371.0         362.0         394.a          401 .
3hee-                                              45.3          42.0          41.3           46..          47.'u
?ouL ary                   '56.8                                 59.4          65.0           67.7          76.U
111lk             Millions of liters             730.1          766.6         805.0         811.2          883.r
A LJ3 OF LIVESTOCK PRODUCTIONi
(X ii' ions of Bolivares in 1)68 prices)
Livestock                                       1 871.8       2,062.0       2 4162.0      2,177.5        2, 305.0
Beef/b                                            779.1         590.0         930.6                        932.3q
HLgs                                              205.5         232.0         t42 -           42.7         256.6
Goats                                              19.1          18.6          19.1           19.7          '0.0
Sheeo:                                              3.2           3.0           ;a.9           3.2           3.3
?o1ltry                                           196.7         Z05.9         226.3          734.5         263.o4
Lilk                                              457.8         480.6         504.7          527.4         553.6
EggIs                                             176.7         195.7         k18.0          226.3         220.2
Cvher                                              33.7          36.z          40.9           42.1          43.4
Lea tsi, - eF IJS .
/L)  SA_-ac _s inovements of caWule along the Colombian border.
6ource:  1lKiiListerio de Agricultura y Cria.                                                                             ho






ANNEX 3
Page 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF COMMODITIES TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
Introduction
1.        The commodities promoted through Project investments are expected
to consist mainly of: maize and sorghum (136,000 ton incremental production);
beans (32,000 ton); rice (35,000 ton); groundnuts (22,000 ton); citrus (20,000
ton); and copra (5,000 ton). With the exception of a small amount of citrus,
all incremental production is expected to be absorbed by the domestic market.
General Production and Price Policy
2.        Under the National Plan 1970-74, the Government proposes to achieve
self-sufficiency in corn production and to reduce wheat imports. The plan also
calls for a reduction in imports of other commodities such as black beans
(caraotas), kidney beans and for such perennial crops as copra.
3,        As far as export diversification is concerned, the plan proposes to
double exports of plantains and to triple exports of fruits and vegetables.
Recently, Government has submitted to Congress two bills designed to encourage
the increase of non-traditional exports.  The first bill would provide for
the granting of subsidies of between 15 and 30% to exporters of non-traditional
crops, while the second would establish an export financing fund, which
would provide financial resources for exporting firms.
4.        The Plan also proposes the creation of the Agricultural Marketing
Corporation (CMA) to serve as the executing agency of price policy. CMA,
in charge of regulating market supply and stabilizing prices for producers
and consumers, started its operations in 1971.
5.        Although there are still some problems in the marketing of agricultural
products, Venezuelan farmers have benefitted from Government efforts to stabil-
ize farm prices. Also, producers have benefited from a well-developed infra-
structure which provides an easy access to market centers. For several products
such as sesame seed and groundnuts, Government efforts have resulted in the
establishement of marketing channels, which directly link the processor and
the producer.  As for other products, mostly those produced by small farmers
such as corn and beans, the Government has not been so successful. However,
the services provided by CMA have benefited small farmers considerably. For
example, CMA pays the transportation and supplies the bags for the corn they
produce. The Government also provides storage facilities that are well
located throughout the country and capable of handling a significant share of
production. CMA started its operations in 1971 as a result of the reorganiza-
tion of the National Agricultural Marketing Committee, which executed a price



ANNEX 3
Page 2
subsidy scheme through the Banco Agricola y Pecuario (BAP). The products
purchased by BAP, those imported and those received as loan repayment in kind
were stored, dried, and resold to wholesalers, at an annual average operating
loss of about Bs 110 million (US$26 million). With the reorganization of the
Committee, the price support program was transferred to CMA and the storage
facilities to the Agricultural Storage Agency (ADAGRO), a dependency of CMA.
6.        In 1972 CMA purchased products valued at Bs 173 million (US$40
million); the main items were rice, corn, groundnuts, sisal, and sorghum.
CMA also acquired seeds and tractors for distribution to small farmers. It
was estimated that, in 1972, CMA sustained losses of about Bs 50 million
(US$11.6 million), of which Bs 18.5 million (US$4.3 million) was accounted
for by the corn support program and Bs 13.5 million (US$3.1 million) by the
groundnut purchasing program. Losses were also incurred for rice, sisal,
onions, and tobacco.
Fats and Oils
7.        The local consumption of fats and oils is estimated at about 105,000
ton per year. The main sources of supply are sesame, coconut, cottonseed,
groundnuts, corn, oil palm, and soybeans. Domestic production is estimated at
about 68,000 ton (1969-71 average) and the remaining 37,000 ton are imported.
8.        The availability of fats and oils, in oil equivalent, is as follows:
Domestic                                  Apparent 1/    Approximate
Production      Imports      Exports    Consumptlon-    Seed Equivalent
(ton)         (ton)         (ton)          (ton)            (ton)
Sesame oil       37,952          -           4,504          33,448           93,000
Coconut oil       9,067          1,438         143          10,362      16,000 (copra)
Groundnut oil    4,000           3,488        -              7,488      19,000 (shelled)
Cottonseed oil   6,233         27,778         -             34,011          200,000
Corn oil          6,056           -           -              6,056           80,000
Palm oil          3,650           -           -              3,650            8,000
Soybean oil         739         8,997         -              9,736           53,500
Total         67,697        41,701        4,647         104,751
1/   Not including changes in stocks.
Source: Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria.
.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
9.        About 47% of the fats and oils consumed in Venezuela are in
liquid form and 53% as solids. Sesame oil accounts for 71% of the liquid
oil consumption, the remainder is groundnut oil (16%) and corn oil (13%).
The main sources for solids are cottonseed oil, 59%; soybean oil, 17%; palm
oil, 6%; and coconut oil, 18%. Among the solids, 15% is used for production
of margarine and 85% for production of other vegetable fats.
10.       The consumption of fats and oils is expected to grow from an average
of about 105,000 ton, for the 1969-71 period, to about 168,000 tons in 1980 of
which about 72,000 ton are estimated to be liquid oils and the remaining
96,000 ton would be vegetable fats. On a per capita basis, oil consumption
will reach 11.4 kg in 1980 (5.8 kg of liquid oil and 5.6 kg of vegetable
fats). In order to meet these levels of consumption, an additional produc-
tion of 14,800 ton of liquid oil and 49,000 ton of fats would be necessary.
11.       The market for liquid oil is expected to be competitive among oil-
seeds. Both price and quality will determine what share of the market sesame
and groundnut oil will have. At present, prices are regulated by the Ministry
of Development and both sesame and groundnut oils are sold at the same price,
Bs 2,500 per ton, or about US$581 equivalent. Equality between these prices
is artificially maintained, since in the world market the price of sesame seed
oil is higher than that of groundnut oil. In the event that surpluses of
liquid oil arise, sesame oil would probably be exported to a large extent
since domestic prices are competitive with a relatively stable world market
price of about Bs 3,987 per ton, or about US$830 equivalent (c.i.f. New York,
refined oil).
Sesame
12.       Since sesame, grown under rainfed conditions, is presently a very
important crop amongst farmers in the Llanos Occidentales and since this
crop competes on the local market with groundnuts, it is discussed in the
following paragraphs in same detail. At present, prices received by the
farmer for sesame do not compare favorably with those received for other
crops, such as rice and corn. Under the Project, it is expected that bene-
ficiaries would, after having made investments in irrigation and drainage
facilities, grow more maize and various kinds of beans instead of sesame.
This is also because sesame is susceptible to abundant soil moisture. There-
fore, it is expected that no incremental sesame production would arise due
to Project investments. However, this pattern would change immediately if
and when farmgate prices for sesame compared more favorably with other crops
or farmers got accustomed to growing sesame under furrow irrigation during
the dry season.
13.       Sesame production in Venezuela started in the 1940's, but commercial
production began a decade later with the opening of the agricultural settle-
ment of Turen in the State of Portuguesa. Although sesame can be grown
throughout most of Venezuela, its production is concentrated in the States
of Portuguesa and Barinas, where about 98% of the harvested crop is produced.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
14.       There are more than ten improved varieties of sesame seed in
Venezuela. The most commonly used variety is the Aceitera, which is grown
by about 57 percent of the producers. The second most popular variety is
the Guacara, which is used by about 13 percent of the farmers. Another
important variety is Criolla, which is grown by traditional producers in the
State of Falcon. As a result of the use of these improved varieties, yields
increased from 440 kg per ha in 1960-62 to about 600 kg/ha in 1969-71 i.e.
by 3.5% per annum, and over the last twelve years production has grown at an
average annual rate of about 18%, peaking in 1970 when 126,000 ton were pro-
duced but dropping to 59,000 ton in 1972 due to unfavorable weather. Never-
theless, Venezuela has been more or less self-sufficient in sesame seed
production since 1967, and for 1973 the demand for sesame seed has been
estimated to be about 87,000 ton, which is equivalent to 8.1 kg per capita.
The level of demand for 1980 is expected to increase to 123,000 ton.
15.       The price to farmers is determined through an agreement between
producers and industrial processors. This agreement establishes absorption
quotas for the industry. For 1973, the base price at the factory was
Bs 1,360 per ton (US$316), with an estimated farm-gate price of about
Bs 1,200 per ton (US$279). This price compares favorably with a world
market price of about Bs 1,269 per ton c.i.f. Europe (US$295). Furthermore
because of the quality of its oil, sesame should be able to compete favorably
on the domestic market with groundnuts under a more equitable price relation-
ship than now exists (para 19).  It should also be possible to export sesame
surpluses either unprocessed or as crude oil.
Groundnuts
16.       Groundnut production has grown rapidly during the last six years.
In 1971 there were about 11,800 ha planted, as compared to 2,300 ha in 1966.
This rapid increase was the result of a groundnut development project carried
out in the Llanos Orientales. Until recently production was concentrated
near El Tigre in the State of Anzoategui, but it has now been expanded into
the neighboring area near Maturin in the State of Monagas. Most of the area
cultivated in both States was formerly used for extensive livestock operations.
17.       While groundnut production itself has increased significantly, yields
per ha have not. In 1966, production was 2,254 ton (unshelled), which rose
to 13,392 ton in 1971, an increase equivalent to an annual average rate of
growth of about 43%. However, yields, have declined from an average of 1.0 ton
per ha over the 1960-62 period to 872 kg per ha in the 1969-71 period. One
explanation for the decline is the fact that, in the rapid expansion of ground-
nut production, many farmers did not take into consideration the ph and
nutrient requirements of the plant. The plains of Guanipa, for example,
require about one ton per ha of lime to bring the ph up, but not all farmers
applied it while others used too much. The results in each case were low
yields. Other reasons for poor yields are defective seed, poor soil prepara-
tion, and the farmers' inexperience. Farmers achieving consistently good
yields use about 250 kg per ha of 18-46-0 fertilizer or an equivalent amount
of 12-24-12.  Five to seven applications by air of insecticide and fungicides            S
are also commonly required.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
0          18.       Two or three very active groups of groundnut producers have shared
information and been able to consistently produce 1,400 to 2,000 kg/ha under
rainfed conditions while more progressive farmers managed to drill wells and
install sprinkler systems and are producing 2,500 kg/ha and more.
19.       Local consumption of groundnuts in 1970 was estimated at about
29,000 ton, most of which was used for the production of liquid oil in the
fish canning industry and some for roasting. By 1980, it is estimated that
demand will have grown to about 50,000 ton. The 1973 price for groundnuts
guaranteed to farmers by Government was Bs 1,500 per ton unshelled (US$350)
at the processing plant. This is very high, particularly when comparing
groundnut oil with sesame seed oil, which is of higher quality. However, in
Venezuela, both sesame seed oil and groundnut oil are sold at the same price,
although in the world market, groundnut oil sells at a lower price than sesame
oil. Price reductions for groundnuts would be feasible when groundnuts are
grown under irrigation, due to the increase in cropping intensity and in
productivity, costs per ton produced could be reduced. Prices during the
last five years have already declined by about 15% and further reductions
would depend on how fast irrigation can be introduced. The proposed Project
has been designed to facilitate such developments and it is estimated that,
due to Project investments, annual production would rise by about 22,000 ton.
Corn and Sorghum
20.       Corn is one of the most important crops grown in Venezuela, with
an estimated 588,000 ha planted in 1971.  The level of production has
increased from 439,000 ton in 1960 to about 713,000 ton in 1971, all consumed
locally and requiring additional imports annually. In 1972, however, produc-
tion declined to 567,000 ton because there was too much rainfall in the
beginning of the planting season and too little thereafter. Production
increased mainly as a result of the expansion in area, but yields have
remained at about 1.1 ton per ha. Local consumption is estimated to be about
800,000 ton per year of which about 30% is used for animal feed and the
remaining 70% for human consumption. Yellow corn is used for animal feed and
white corn for precooked corn flour, which is, in turn, used for making
"arepas" - a product similar to the Mexican "tortilla".
21.       Yields have varied due to poor drainage in the rainy period and they
are low when the crop is grown on residual moisture in the ground after the
rainy season. With proper grading of fields to allow better drainage, planting
on top of the bed, increasing the fertilizer rates, following a proper insec-
ticide program, and providing supplemental or full irrigation, yields should
approach four tons or more per hectare. Progressive farmers are using qualit7
hybrid seeds.
22.       Sorghum is a relatively new crop in Venezuela and is, to some extent,
an alternative crop to corn, particularly under limited rainfall conditions.
Production has increased from 2,200 ton in 1964 to an estimated 6,800 ton in
1972, most of it grown in the State of Guarico. As a result of the proposed
.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Project, sorghum production would be extended to other areas of the country,
mainly to the Llanos Orientales and Llanos Occidentales. Sorghum-groundnut
rotation is used in the Llanos Orientales because groundnuts do best following
plants without a deep tap root and without similar disease problems. Some
farmers have reduced fertilizer requirements for groundnut after a well grown
sorghum crop. Greater income may be realized if, after the first harvest,
sorghum is allowed to head out again for a second harvest.  Livestock may also
graze the stubble. Birds have been a problem at times but, with timely
harvest, losses have been reduced.
23.       The Agricultural Marketing Corporation (CMA) fixes the prices for
corn and sorghum. Prices paid at the warehouses are Bs 490 (US$114) and Bs 420
(US$98) per ton respectively. They are equivalent to Bs 440 (US$102) for corn
and Bs 370 (US$86) for sorghum at the farm. For small farmers, the effective
prices are higher because the transportation cost is borne by CMA. Wholesale
prices of corn and sorghum are Bs 425 (US$99) and Bs 400 (US$93) per ton, which
at current world market prices appear to be competitive. In 1972, CMA bought
about 151,000 ton of corn.
24.       It has been estimated that by 1980, the demand for white corn for
human consumption would increase to about 810,000 ton and the demand for all
feed grains to about 915,000 ton. Production of corn by this time could
increase to about 1,130,000 ton, and that of sorghum to about 20,000 ton. At
these levels of production there would be a need to import about 575,000 ton
of corn and/or sorghum.  It is estimated that incremental production due to
Project investments of corn and/or sorghum would be about 136,000 ton annually.
Caraotas (Black Beans) and Kidney Beans
25.       Traditionally, Venezuela has been a consumer and producer of caraotas
and kidney beans. Since 1960 the area planted to caraotas has remained more or
less constant at about 75,000 ha, but large fluctuations in output occur from
year to year. During the last ten years there has been a gradual decrease
in production as a result of a decrease in yields. Caraota yields, for example,
have declined from an average of 490 kg per ha during the period 1960-62 to
about 332 kg per ha during the period 1969-71. Annual caraota production is
estimated at 27,000 ton and that of kidney beans at 19,000 ton.
26.       There are several production problems.  One of the main difficulties
in increasing yields is that planting frequently takes place in marginal areas,
often on steep slopes. Also, there is a large number of small producers, and as
a result marketing costs are high.  Venezuela has not been able to overcome
these problems, which mostly affect the "campesino" sector, and, as a consequence,
has had to import about a fourth of its consumption needs. On the commercial
size farm, caraota normally follows rainfed rice and depends only on sparse
rainfall and remaining soil moisture. The main reason for this is the fact
the farmers have been unwilling to use inputs such as fertilizer and insecti-
cides because of the erratic rainfall patterns and involved risk. With
irrigation, however, average yields should easily reach more than 1.1 ton per
ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
27.       Local consumption of caraotas and kidney beans is estimated at about
*          80,000 ton per year or about 7.7 kg per capita.  By 1980 consumption of both
caraotas and kidney beans is expected to reach 113,000 ton. Since production
at this time has been estimated at about 75,000 ton, this would not be suffi-
cient to meet the domestic demand. Therefore, about 38,000 ton would have to
be imported to fill the gap. This compares to an average of 20,000 ton per
year imported since 1966.
28.       Caraota beans are imported mainly from Mexico and Colombia.  All
imports are regulated through a licensing system. As a general rule, importers
are required to purchase one domestically produced ton for every six imported
ones.  Import prices are about Bs 1,120 (US$260) per ton (c.i.f. La Guaira)
and in addition to this price, an import duty of Bs 300 (US$70) must also be
paid. Domestic prices are regulated by CMA, which establishes a minimum
guarantee price. In 1973 the support prices were set at Bs 1,400 (US$326) per
ton for caraotas and Bs 1,100 (US$256) for kidney beans. In the case of
caraotas, intermediaries frequently pay the support price at the farm level.
Imported and domestic production is sold in the wholesale market at Bs 1,800
(US$419) per ton for caraotas and Bs 1,450 (US$337) for beans. The project
is expected to generate an incremental production of 32,000 ton of caraotas
and kidney beans per year.
Rice
29.       Rice production increased from 71,000 metric ton in 1960 to about
226,200 ton in 1972. This rapid expansion has allowed Venezuela to meet its
internal demand and to generate exportable surpluses since 1964.  Up to 1971,
however, surplus disposal was a problem because of the difference between the
domestic price and the world market price. A ton of white rice at the mill
cost about US$207 while the world market price was about US$129 for similar
quality rice (Thai milled, 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok). In 1973, however, this
difference has been drastically reduced mainly because the domestic price has
remained constant, while the world market price has increased to US$192 (January-
April 1973).
30.       Production has expanded as a result of an increase in area rather than
an increase in productivity. Yields in Portuguesa, the major rice producing
area of Venezuela, dropped from an average of around 2.1 ton per ha in 1968/69
to 1.1 ton per ha in 1971, or a four-year average of 1.7 ton per ha. While
irregular rainfall was the biggest factor in the yield reduction, reluctance on
the part of the farmer to risk expensive inputs in possibly adverse weather con-
ditions also contributed. Farmers are in need of financing for wells and are
actively seeking Government help in the matter. With irrigation and the new
improved long grain varieties such as the IR-22 and the CICA-4, which have re-
cently been introduced, yields can be expected to more than double. 1/
1/   The main producing areas are located in the states of Guarico, Portuguesa,
and Barinas. Long grain accounts for about 79% of the rice produced
(Blue Bonnet 56%, Llanero-501, 23%); short grain (IR-8) accounts for about
19%; and medium grain, the remaining 2%.
0



ANNEX 3
Page 8
31.       The price of rice is determined by the price support program of
CMA.  It is estimated that Q4A buys about 65% of the harvested crop and
because of the volume purchased, CMA's prices become the maximum paid to
producers. Except for the short grain price, which was reduced in 1973 from
Bs 430 (US$100) to Bs 300 (US$70) per ton, CMA's official price list over
the last three years has been as follows:
Paddy Price         Milled Rice Equivalent L
(Bs/ton)    (US/ton)    (Bs/ton)        (US/ton)
Long grain /2          600       139.5        982.8         228.6
Medium grain /3         550      127.9        905.9         210.7
Short Grain 14         300        69.8        521.4         121.3
/1   The conversion of paddy to milled rice is 65%.  It includes Bs 60 per
metric ton of processing and transport cost.
/2   Long grain:  Blue Bonnet, Payara, IR-22, Llanero-501.
7i   Medium grain:  Campesino, Morotuto, Chollet.
74   Short grain:  IR-8.
Source: Corporation de Mercadeo Agricola, Aviso Oficial de Precios Minimos,
March 14, 1973.
32.       Under this price structure, the farm-gate price for long grain paddy             0
rice is about US$128 per ton, which is equivalent to about US$197 per ton of
milled rice. The wholesale price is about US$261 per ton, and it retails at
US$350. By 1975, it is estimated that domestic consumption will have risen to
142,000 ton in terms of paddy and production to 202,000 ton, which would
generate an annual surplus of about 60,000 ton. For CMA to export this surplus
without a financial loss, it would be necessary to reduce the price to a
projected world market level of about US$144 per ton. Alternatively a subsidy
of about 15 to 25% on exports could be economically justifiable in view of a
corresponding overvaluation of the exchange rate.
Citrus
33.       Citrus production has expanded during the last ten years at an
annual rate of about 7.9%. It is estimated that there are now about 30,000
ha planted (29,000 in oranges and 1,000 ha in graDefruit).  Production of
oranges is estimated at 186,000 ton per year and that of grapefruit, at
15,000 ton.  Yields are about 6.4 ton per ha for oranges and about 15.0 ton
for grapefruit. These yields appear to be somewhat low but those in the
Carabobo and Yaracuy valleys, where there are about 3,000 ha in comnmercial
productio-. are considerably higher (about 16 ton per ha). The most widely
cultivated varieties of oranges are Valencia and Washington Navel. The
0



ANNEX 3
Page 9
pineapple variety is also grown, but the present trend among growers is to
further increase the area planted with the former two varieties. A mixture
of grapefruit varieties is frequently found (Marsh seedless, Thompson, and
Ducan). Most of these fruits contain a large number of seeds, which makes
them undesirable on the international market. The new varieties to be
produced under the proposed Project would be selected so as to eliminate this
problem. Citrus is produced under both non-irrigated and irrigated conditions.
Under irrigation, the trees are able to set more fruit and hold it to maturity.
Many farmers with 10-year old irrigated trees are producing well over 20 ton
per ha annually. Farmers establishing new orchards are planting 200 trees
per hectare.
34.       About two-thirds of the oranges produced are sold through inter-
mediaries, who, in turn, sell them to retailers and wholesalers in the main
urban centers. About a fourth of the production is marketed through four
packing plants. The citrus handled by the packing plants is classified and
then sold to supermarket chains or exporters. Prices paid to farmers for
unclassified fruit are about Bs 250 (US$58) per ton and those paid by the
packing plant fluctuate between Bs 330 (US$77) and 345 (US$80) at the plant.
The plants sell the oranges at Bs 15.0 (US$3.50) per crate of 24 kg, which
is equivalent to a price of about Bs 606 (US$140) per ton.
35.       In 1972, local consumption was estimated at 175,000 ton or about
16 kg per capita. Since it is unlikely that per capita consumption will
increase much in the future, it is estimated that overall consumption will
increase at about the same rate as population.  Under this assumption,
consumption could reach 282,000 ton by 1980.  Therefore, all of the production
from the proposed Project (about 20,000 ton per year at full production)
could be absorbed by the domestic market.
36.       Export possibilities for Venezuela's oranges are limited.  Trial
shipments have been made to Chile and the Netherlands (about 2,000 ton), and
some to Curacao, Aruba and to some other Caribbean Islands. Prospects, how-
ever, are not good, mainly because of the appearance of the fruit, reducing the
possibility of competing in the world market. Good possibilities, however,
exist for exporting grapefruit, which in the past has been shipped to Italy
at prices of about US$180 per ton, (f.o.b. La Guaira). The world market for
fresh grapefruit has been expanding rapidly, and if Venezuela could produce
high-quality seedless varieties, they could take a small share of the market.
However, the production generated from the proposed Project is also expected to
be absorbed by the domestic market.
Coconut
37.       Annual copra production has remained stagnant at a level of about
16,000 ton since 1969. It is estimated that there are about 16,522 ha in
production and about 5,390 ha of young trees not yet producing. The main
orchards are located in the States of Falcon, Aragua, and Carabobo; the
majority being in Falcon. However, one of the problems limiting the expansion
of copra production is lack of irrigation. In the State of Falcon, where 60%
of the copra is produced, the long, dry season often reduces yields and damages



ANNEX 3
Page 10
young trees.  It is estimated that average yields are about 800 kg/ha of copra.
On irrigated farms, yields run as high as two tons of copra per ha. Since
1969, Venezuela has gradually reduced its import of copra to about 4,000 ton
per year as a result of sharp increases in world market prices and because
of the availability of cheaper substitutes, such as cottonseed. The price
of copra is regulated by the Ministry of Development, which establishes
absorption quotas for the processing industries, while the domestic price
is set by a joint committee made up of representatives of Government, producers,
and industry. Since 1970 this price has remained at Bs 1,240 (US$290) per
ton at the factory. Prices paid by intermediaries to farmers fluctuate
between Bs 900 (US$209) and Bs 1,050 (US$244) per ton.
38.       Copra production could be increased considerably without market
limitations. By 1980 it will be necessary for Venezuela to import either
cottonseed or copra to supply its domestic demand for vegetable fats and
margarine, but this deficit could be covered by copra. Currently, Venezuela
is importing copra at about Bs 800.0 (US$186) per ton. Processors have also
imported cottonseed oil at a c.i.f. price of Bs 731 (US$170) per ton. The
incremental production generated by the proposed Project (about 5,000 ton
of copra) could be absorbed by the domestic market.
August 20, 1973



ANNEX 4
Page 1
VENEWELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investments for Irrigation, Drainage and
Mechanization to be Financed under the Project
*           General
1.        Most of the farmers benefitting under the Project would make invest-
nents in irrigation, mainly through pumping from wells, and to a smaller
extent from rivers. This involves principally (i) the installation of wells
and pumps; (ii) land levelling; (iii) drainage installations; and (iv)
mechanization. These investment items are discussed in general first,
followed by specific comments for the different crops to be grown by farmers
receiving sub-loans under the proposed Project.
2.        Since investments undertaken under the Project would be major and
would involve an integrated system of irrigation, drainage, and mechanization,
a detailed farm plan would be required before a sub-loan could be made by
BDA. The farm plan would include a map, showing well site, irrigation system,
drainage system, percentage of slope and direction of each field, size of
field, and the on-farm road system.  In addition, complete cut and fill maps
would be prepared.  This would be undertaken by an agronomist together with
an engineer. The agronomist would work out the cropping pattern with the
farmer and then assist the engineer in determining the amount of water to be
applied; interval between irrigation; length of field; slope best suited to
the crop; machinery to be used; and timing of machinery use with regard to
irrigation and plant requirements. Attention would also be given to the
depth of soil in the areas where heavy cut is recommended and what effects
it would have on production. Alternatives may have to be considered such as
excluding some portions of the farm land from irrigation, stock piling top
soil to be replaced after the field is brought to grade, and possible use
of sprinklers. In most cases the farmer would hire an engineer to do this
work who would work together with BDA's technician in preparing the invest-
ment plan for sub-loan approval.
3.        All farm plans would not have to be as complete as those involving
gravity irrigation. For example, most sub-loans to irrigate established coco-
nut groves would require only a very simple plan, with limited engineering.
Also, sprinkler irrigation plans would be concerned primarily with the flexi-
bility and proper design of the system, taking into consideration the type
of cropping, soil, and efficient machinery use, but would not require as com-
plete a farm survey, land leveling or drainage system. Machinery require-
ments to enable the farmer to maintain the capital investment works, such as
land planes and ditches, would be included in the investment plans.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Irrigoi
4.        In the major Project areas, the regions of Llanos Occidentales and
Llanos Orientales, ground water would be the primary source for irrigation
investments under the Project. Farmers now realize that they must develop a
dependable supply of irrigation water to protect themselves against droughts.
They also find that they have to crop year around to spread the cost of high-
priced machinery. Wnile surface irrigation would be used in the Llanos
Occidentales (para 16) the use of sprinkler irrigation is more common in the
Llanos Orientales where sandy soil creates heavy losses if irrigation is done
by surface (para 13).
Ground Water
5.        Ground water investigations and data gathering are the responsibil-
ity of the Government and, while its activities in this field are relatively
new, much information has been accumulated from oil well logs over many years
of oil well drilling. Additionally, existing wells are monitored semi-
annually and the data collected are used in a digital computer program for
determining well spacing, availability of water, and possible overdraft.
Present spacing recommendations are 1 kI apart for wells producing 80 liters
per second and 1.1 km apart for wells producing 100 liters per second.
6.        Recently, Government carried out a reconnaissance survey in the
Guanipa plains, making 373 electrical soundings and drilling 35 exploratory
bore holes.  This work, coupled with the monitoring of existing wells, proled
the existence of an extensive undetground watertable of more than 3,000 km ,
with two major water-bearing sandy formations at depths of from 60 to 80 m
and 100 to 200 m respectively. Moreover, the natural recharge of these forma-
tions by the infiltration of heavy annual rainfall (1,000 to 1,200 mm) ensures
a continued water supply. However, the same conditions hay not exist in the
Maturin area. IMWI is now gathering data in that area and work is scheduled
for completion in about 1974. Additionally, the Ministry of Agriculture has
had a well drilling crew there for about 15 years but it has been able to
provide only a limited amount of information on scattered locations.
7.        About 60% of the sub-loans expected to be granted under the Project
would include provision for drilling a well to serve as the source of irri-
gation water. Each proposed well site would be checked with the appropriate
ministry in regard to the availability and quantity of ground water in the
immediate area. The number and density of existing wells in the main Project
areas are low and ground water conditions are considered very good from the
standpoint of locating an adequate supply. Hlowever, spacing recommendations
by the government would be adhered to. Water quality has not been a problem.
8.        There is an adequate number of qualified well drillers in Venezuela,
most with rotary-type rigs. Wells in the Llanos Occidentales zone generally



ANNEX 4
Page 3
have a 24-inch 0.D., 1/ with a 14-inch to 16-inch steel well casing and a
gravel pack filter. Normal depth of the wells in the zone is about 60 m, with
the bowls of the turbine pumps set at about 30 m.
9.        In the Llanos Orientales, excellent water-bearing sand strata are
located at depths ranging from 90 to 120 m and are about 30m thick. Static
water level in the wells is about 10 m. The bowls of the turbine pumps are
set at about 60 m depth. The present practice is to use a rotary drilling
rig, which makes a 22-inch O.D. hole, and a 10-inch or 14-inch steel casing
with a gravel pack filter, but there have been some problems with sand in
the wells. Increased O.D.s of 36 inches and well casings of 16 inches, have
proven to be better in order to ensure the maximum amount of perforated area
being exposed to water-bearing strata.  Further, the gravel pack, if installed
all the way to the bottom of the well, is considered better in order to avoid
bridging. All rotary mud and other contamination would be thoroughly bailed
out as the gravel is put around the centered well casing. The increased
diameter of the well, the casing and the greater thickness of the gravel
e>nvelope would reduce the velocity of the water, thereby lessening the sand
problem.
10.       A developing pump of sufficient capacity (200 to 250 liters per
second 2/) would be used to qualify the well capacity after at least 24 hours
of heavy continuous pumping. Since the cost of the well is relatively high
and most farmers have more land available than they can irrigate, large pumps
would be used.  It is expected that Project farmers would pump up to 24 hours
per day and grow two crops per year. *Maximum daily water requirements would
be estimated for a crop planted and this information would be used as the
basis on which to determine the number of ha to be planted for irrigation.
Irrigation efficiency ranges from 45% with gravity irrigation in the porous
soil of coastal coconut plantations to 60% in the Llanos Orientales, where
sprinklers are commonly used.
11.       Pumps  A number of Venezuelan companies have been licensed by inter-
national firms to manufacture turbine and centrifugal pumps, thus ensuring an
adequately supply for Project beneficiaries. Columns, drive shafts, and other
accessories are also readily available locally. Pumps would range in size
from 30 liters/sec to 150 liters/sec.. Some 355 are expected to be turbine,
90 would be centrifugal booster for sprinkler systems, and 175 would be low
lift centrifugal for supplying water for gravity flow irrigation from streams
and canals.
12.       Motors  Approximately 615 motors would be required, varying from
40 to 200 hp.  Most of the units would be powered by diesel motors, but a few
1/   Outside diameter.
2/   May require several hundred hp to do a good job at the depths required
in the Llanos Orientales.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
farmers might select an electric or natural gas installation where such ser-
vice is available.  Major engine manufacturers are well represented in
Venezuela and have adequate service and parts available.
13.       Sprinkler Irrigation  Sprinkler irrigation would be used mostly in
the Llanos Orientales zone where the soils have high porosity and gravity
flow irrigation is not practical. Major crops to be irrigated are groundnuts,
maize and sorghum. About 16,000 ha are expected to be irrigated by this kind
of irrigation following Project-financed investments. Water would come main-
ly from fairly deep wells (100 to 120 m) and would be pressurized by centrifu-
gal pumps. The self-propelled circular and down-the-row sprinkler types are
imported, while the standard hand move systems are assembled in Venezuela.
Some companies selling sprinkler systems in Venezuela offer the complete pack-
age, including the engineering. To ensure a high field operation efficiency
for tractors and other machinery, lateral sprinkler lines would be about 400 m
long, but hand move lines would also be used where appropriate. Also, the
booster pump has to match the system. Sprinkler lines would be large enough
to carry the required amount of water so that excessive friction losses would
not develop.
14.       Irrigation efficiency is expected to be 60% due to dry winds with
velocities up to 3.2 m/sec. These winds have to be kept in mind when deter-
mining the direction in which the sprinkler laterals are to be laid, the
spacing to be used, the height of risers, the angle of the sprinkler heads
and the pressure and the size of nozzles.  Windbreaks are not mandatory
but should be considered if sprinkler patterns are not satisfactory.  It is
expected that the average farmer would install a well producing 100 liters/
sec, allowing for 120 ha of supplementary irrigation from May through August
and for irrigating 60 ha from September through April (two 60-ha crops).
With experience, the farmers may be able to increase the September through
December cropped hectares, depending on local rainfall.
15.       Gravity Irrigation.  The major portion of Project investments for
irrigation, approximately 55,600 ha, would be through gravity. Major crops
to be irrigated would be rice, maize, black beans (caraota), citrus, and
coconuts. Land prepared for growing rice in rotation with other field
crops would have be flat in one direction with a slope of less than 0.5%
in the other direction. This would allow for rectangular basins for rice
and for the irrigation and drainage of row crops. Coconuts would be ir-
rigated by the basin or strip check method.  Due to sandy conditions in
the major Project areas, large low-lift centrifugal pumps would be required
to give large enough heads of water to get spreading on short runs. Even
so, irrigation efficiency may be less than 45%.  Farmers with less than
60 ha would have to join together to utilize the size of pumps required.
Drainage
16.       The cost of clearing native growth in Project areas varies from
Bs 50/ha (US$12) to Bs 800/ha (US$186). Less than 2% of the land, how-
ever, requires such preparation and drainage is of major importance in many



ANNEX 4
Page 5
parts of the Llanos Occidentales.  In this area, surface drainage is re-
quired because of soil characteristics and heavy annual rains (1,200 to
1,500 mm). Maize drowns out when planted in the rainy season without good
drainage, and, occasionally, sesame will be damaged by unseasonable rain-
fall which does not drain off quickly enough.  Many fields also have low
spots which do not yield a satisfactory crop because of waterlogging.
17.       The Ministry of Public Works (MnP) is responsible for developing
main drains, some secondary drains, and protective diversions. One of its
major undertakings is located at Turen, in the Llanos Occidentales, where
drainage of 180,000 ha between 1970-74 is called for and where a considerable
portion of Project investments are expected to take place. MOP seems well
equipped and staffed to complete the works provided sufficient finds are
available. Many farmers have natural drains adjacent to their properties
but others have had such drains blocked off by cross-country roads for which
proper culverts xere not installed. Investments of some Bs 6 million (US$1.4
million) is expected to be made under the Project for on-farm drainage.
Farm Roads
18.       On-farm roads are needed to give the farmer access to his fields
in all kinds of weather and they must, therefore, be built up so that they
can drain well. In many cases, drains can run parallel to the road on the
upper side and irrigation ditches on the lower side. Under the Project,
farmers would also receive credit for constructing on-farm roads.
*          Land Levelling
19.       Levelling farm land for gravity irrigation is a  relatively new
technique in Venezuela. However, there are many capable engineers in the
country who have had drainage and land reclamation experience. Fields to
be levelled for gravity irrigation would be staked out in sizes not to
exceed 30 m x 30 m. The selection of grade would be based on requirements
of the crops to be grown, taking into consideration the natural existing
grade, soil characteristics, and the need for efficient and timely use of
farm machinery. The cut and fill map would be prepared after determining
the configuration that best suits the situation and minimizes the volume
of soil to be moved. Use of a soil auger in areas of heavy cut would assist
designers in arriving at the proper final plan. It is possible that some
areas would prove to be impractical to include, in which case they could
be put under different cropping systems and/or sprinkler irrigated.
3
20.       Land levelling for the Project is estimated to be about 600 m /ha
of soil to be moved costing about Bs 1.3/n3 (US$0.30/m3), or Bs 780/ha
(US$180/ha).  Prices quoted to MOP for moving dirt ranged from Bs 1.47/m3
(US$0.34/m3) to Bs 2.42/m3 (US$0.56/m3), which is very high.  There is suf-
ficient land levelling equipment already available in Venezuela to handle



ANNEX 4
Page 6
required Project work. All land levelling would be followed by land planing
in at least three different directions, the last pass being in the direction
of irrigation. Land planing should be carried out on at least an annual
basis after the initial levelling. Ripping after levelling may also be
necessary in some areas. Some relevelling will generally be required in
the second or third year after the initial work is completed.
Mechanization
21.       General.  Venezuela's agriculture is highly mechanized from
plowing through harvesting. Average annual sales of agricultural wheel
tractors from 1968 through 1972 amounted to more than 2,800 units. Horse-
power requirements are also going up: in the three-year period, 1967-69,
most tractors sold were in the 50- to 60-hp class, while over the last
three years, the greatest number of sales has been in the 60- to 80- hp
class. In 1971, out of the 3,257 agricultural wheel tractors sold in
Venezuela, 1,925 were over 60 hp and 217 were over 100 hp.
22.       Suppliers.  The farmer in Venezuela has as broad a selection of farm
equipment to choose from as a buyer any place in the world. The main countries
represented by sales agencies, in order of numbers of tractors supplied,
are United Kingdom, Federal Republic of Germany, United States, Sweden,
France and Italy. The companies, in order of numbers supplied, are John
Deere, Leyland, Massey Ferguson, International Harvester, David Brown, Deutz,
Ford, Fiat, Allis Chalmers, and Case.  Some dealers offer the same brand of
tractor from manufacturers in three different countries and most back their
selling operations with good service departments.
23.       Implements.  Disk harrows and some plows are manufactured in Venezuela
but importation of similar equipment is allowed when shortages occur. A large
number of land planes are already in use in the Llanos Occidentales. Under the
Project, about 336 land planes are expected to be financed, along with an equal
number of ditch plows to form irrigation ditches. The land planes would be at
least 10 m long although 20 m would be much better, and the width should be
matched to the horsepower of the tractor available to pull them. As farming
becomes more sophisticated and the farmer is provided with an assured supply
of moisture for germination, precision planting becomes more important to
assure good stands of crops. Planters are, therefore, also expected to be
financed under the Project.
24.       The timing of the harvesting of groundnuts is the most critical
factor in producing a good crop. If they are harvested too early, weight
is lost, and if they are left too long in moist conditions, they begin to
germinate. Also, if groundnuts are mishhandled during the harvest, half of
the production can be lost to shattering. Main items to be financed include
combination digger-lifter-inverters and groundnut combines with bulk bin
collection to replace sacking. Considering producers' interest in raising
at least two groundnut crops a year, such investments appear to be feasible.
Some farmers would likely do custom work for their neighbors, but timing



ANNEX 4
Page 7
would be extremely important.  Under irrigation, dry-season crops can be
staggered to spread the time of harvest, but this is very difficult to
accomplish with the rainy-season crop.
25.       Drying equipment is also extremely important to the success of the
groundnut producer in Venezuela. Field curing requires five to 10 days of
mild temperature, relatively dry free-moving air, and no rain, but since these
conditions are rare, mechanical drying offers definite advantages.  This system
requires trailers in which dry air can be circulated through the groundnuts by
mechanical means.
26.       Mechanized harvesting operations follow a fairly standard set of
procedures. Groundnuts are allowed to remain in the windrow one to three
days after digging, or until the kernels will "rattle" within the hull.
Moisture content at this point ranges from 18% to 24%, which makes it pos-
sible for the groundnuts to withstand more handling with less impact damage
than they can when they are very green or very dry. Under these conditions,
a much higher percentage is recovered by the combine harvester because of a
reduction in shattering.
27.       Using the bulk collection bin-type harvesting method, groundnuts
are dumped from the combine directly into the drying trailer, which is parked
in the field.  The trailer is then towed to the on-farm fan and drier in-
0          stallation where it is connected to the air tunnel.  Air is then passed
through the trailer, with heat or without, depending on the weather. Drying
takes about 24 hours under heavy moisture conditions. The trailer is later
used to deliver the groundnuts to the storage or oil mill. Several trailers
may be required to keep the harvester and the drier operating at capacity,
with two and four trailer driers being the most common setup.
Project Portion
28.       If the annual average of agricultural wheel tractor sales remains
at the level it has been over the past five years (about 2,800 units a year),
the proposed Project would finance about 4% of the tractors bought over the
four-year disbursement period. Tractor sub-loans would also provide financ-
ing for matching plows, disk harrows, and planters. Land planes and ditchers
would be included in Project financing if required for annual crop farms going
into a system of gravity flow irrigation, and groundnut harvesting and drying
equipment would be part of the investment on each of the farms investing in
sprinkler irrigation in the Llanos Orientales.
August 15, 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-industry to be Financed Under the Project
1.        In its three years of lending operations, BDA has not yet made
loans to the agro-industrial sector, but large sub-loans have frequently been
made by commercial banks. However, BDA expects to become active in this field
and make several sub-loans under the proposed Project for this kind of invest-
ments, particularly in the field of oilseed and cashew fruit processing
industry.
2.        However, since such agro-industrial sub-projects have hi most cases
been defined only by type and since BDA has not had experience in this field,
all such sub-loans would require prior Bank approval. BDA would, therefore,
submit to the Bank a detailed appraisal report, including a technical,
financial, and economic analysis of each proposed sub-project.
3.        In the following some background information is given in regard to
Venezuela's vegetable oil processing industry, which, though well established
for over 30 years and technically sound, has remained relatively static in
recent years. Local production of oilseeds has been insufficient to utilize
installed extraction capacity fully and the high cost of local oilseeds,
together with an overvalued currency, has encouraged the importation of crude
vegetable oils, particularly cotton-seed oil and peanut oil, for refining
locally. The local demand for edible oils is quite inelastic, per capita
consumption is stabilized at about 10 kg/year, and high production costs
inhibit the possibility of competing in international markets.
4.        The industry is dominated by the Association of Oil and Fat
Industries (ASOGRASAS), whose members' firms produce about 93% of the
refined oil from their nine plants located in the coastal areas of Valencia
and Caracas. Of these plants, the four largest operate at only about 40% of
extraction capacity as the firms prefer to import cheaper crude oil for
refining.
5.        Despite the excess extraction capacity presently available in the
*            country, there is a stated desire among growers to free themselves from
dependence on the near-monopoly enjoyed by ASOGRASkS. Growers claim that
they are exploited by the oil producers and that, to site processing facil-
ities in the growing areas under the control of the growers, would lead to
substantial financial benefits for them and to economic benefits for the
growing areas by:
(a) providing a secure market for the increasing oilseed production;
(b) reducing transportation, packing and storage costs;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) stimulating oilseed production as a result of (a) and (b);
(d) providing additional employment opportunities in the growing
areas; and
(e) attracting secondary and service industries.
6.        Plans to establish a sesame oil plant, a peanut oil plant and a
cashew-nut processing plant are at various stages of advancement, and,
although in no case have investigations progressed beyond the prefeasibility
stage, sufficient data has been gathered to permit a preliminary analysls
of the schemes.
7.        Sesame growers in Portuguesa State where about 90% of Venezuela's
sesame is produced have formed a company 1/ in which they are the majority
shareholders, with a view to establishing a sesame processing plant near
Acarigua, the second largest town in Portuguesa. The plant would produce
crude sesame oil, plus meal as a by-product using the combined process of
mechanical and solvent extraction. The crude oil would be refined by plants
in Valencia and Caracas and the meal would be sold locally for livestock
feed. Total investment cost has been estimated at about US$ 2 million
equivalent.
8.        Peanuts:  During the last decade, the development of the local
fish processing industry has led to an increasing demand for refined peanut
oil, which is used in the canning of sardines and tunnyfish. This demand
is being satisfied primarily by the importation of peanuts and peanut oil 2/,
even though Government has encouraged local peanut production by imposing
high minimum prices to be paid to growers and has supported a processing plant
at El Tigre in Llanos Orientales, the main growing area.
9.        In view of the continued shortfall in the domestic production of
peanuts and peanut oil, growers in Llanos Orientales, where about 95% of
Venezuela's peanuts are produced, are considering the establishment of a
plant in the growing area which would produce crude and refined peanut oil
for the vegetable oil market and the fish canning industry; selected shelled
kernels for confectionary; and oilcake and shells for stockfeed.
10.       Little investigation has been done to determine the feasibility of
such a project but preliminary indication is that it would not be viable. The
1/   Consolidada de Aceites C.A. registered in the State of Portuguesa with
an authorized capital of Bs 6 million (US$1.4 million).
2/   Importation in 1972:  peanuts 32,543 ton.
peanut oil 2,719 ton.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Government fixed price for peanuts in Bs 1,500/ton (US$349) for dry peanuts
delivered to the plant, compared with a price of BS 671/ton (US$156) CIF
Caracas for imported peanuts. It is estimated that, with such a raw material
price, an 18,000 ton/year plant working to full capacity would incur an
operating loss of about Bs 10 million (US$2.3 million) annually. Further-
more, the Government-sponsored plant at El Tigre is working at only 41% of
its capacity of 27,000 ton which is more than the total peanut production of
Venezuela (20,000 ton in 1972).
11.       Cashew nuts are the only oilseeds grown in Venezuela for which
there is no industrial processing facility although it would appear that
products of the crop, kernels and oil have the most promising export potential.
Cashew is grown in the States of Anzastegui and Monagas where extensive
growths of wild trees and about 2,000 ha of very young plantation are estimated
to yield about 300 ton/year. Less than 60 ton/year are harvested from which
only about 10 ton/year of kernels are produced by hand separation; the shells
and outer skin are discarded.
12.       A group of local entrepreneurs, supported by a Brazilian firm
specializing in cashew nut processing, has recently formulated plans to develop
cashew nut cultivation and carry out industrial processing of the crop. On
the agricultural side, a 2,000-ha estate situated on the border of Anzastegui
and Monagas States would be developed for cashew nut production. Industrial
investment would be carried out in two stages.  The first would be the
establishment of a plant to process kernels for the confectionary trade and
to extract high value crude oil from the shells for industrial use. This
would be followed by a plant to process the outer fruit of the cashew nut
for juices, jams and liquor.
13.       Preliminary financial estimates are quite promising, indicating an
annual income of about Bs 1 million (US$233,000) over annual operating costs
of Bs 2.2 million (US$500,000). Such a sub-project would be of considerable
benefit to the national and regional economies by:
(a) utilizing a high value raw material, which has, hitherto, been
wasted;
(b) stimulating increased production of the raw material, thus raising
growers' incomes;
(c) substituting Venezuela's increasing cashew nut imports;
(d) providing a new and readily marketable export; and
(e) creating new agricultural and industrial employment opportunities
in the Llanos Orientales region which has suffered from increas-
ing emigration due to the rundown of employment in the petroleum
industry.
0
August 15, 1973






V E N E Z U E LA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Vegetable oil Industry of Venezuela
Installed C-pcity and Processing of Oilseeds in 1972
Technical2                Capacity in                  Total    Utilized                                     Processed Raw Naterial
Po..    Processing Plants and Location           Outfit"                 Raw materiwaL              ProcessedL Cavacity          -r          Cottonseed   C  r    ! _    95 Pa1 rut          lEaiz -eanut`
tn/ day   daY/Year ton/year       ton/year        7.        tAMyUa    i.T7.i    t~i.  Rrt7illr    ton/year                taniyaar  ton/year
1. BRACA, Caracas-Valencia                  P   S    k            250       300    75,000          31,500        42            27,500          -      4,000            -            -           -           -
2. 3VESA, Carecas-Purto Caballo             P   S    R            250       300    75,000          29,000        39            24.000          -      5,000
3. PRO-GRASAS. Cacaese-Valeneia             P         R R         250       300    75,000          25,000        33            20,000                 5,000
4. CRASVAL, Valencia                        P    S   R            200       300    60,000           24,000       40            18,500      3,000      2,500 D O                                  _          _
5. ACYICA, Cagu                             P         R            50       300    15,000           14,000        93           10,000      2,500      1.500            -            -           -           -
6. FACEGRA, Valecta                         p         R            50       300    15,000           12,500        83            9,000      2,000      1,500            -            -            -
7. AACA, C                                  P         R            15       300    4,500             3,500        78            1,000          -      2,500            -            -           -           -
8. EL hlIA, Valencia                                  R            75       300    22,500           22,500       100                -     22,500           -           -            -            -          _
9.  RAIIAI, San Felipe                      P                      O.5)     300   (10.500)          (8,000)      76                 _                   I              _       (80_00)                   -
Rafining    (I - 8)                                    1,140       300   342,000          170,000        50          110,000     30,000     22,000
Extraction  (9)                                          (35)      300   (10,500)          (8.000)       76                -          -           -           -       (8,000)           -
10. AcOAEA, El Tigre                         P   S    R             90       300    27,000           11,000       41                 _     -                - _         _            _                  11,000
11. VILLALVA, Puerto Cabello                 P         R            19       300     5,700            1,000        18                -          _      1,000                                                 -
12. Mz1 z, Puerto Cabello                    P         R            11       300     3,300              500        15                -          -        500
13. PROTINAL, Valenct                             S               (300)      300   (90,000)         (38,000)      42                 _     -                -     (38,000)
14. PRONSA. Chivaca                               S               (100)      300   (30,000)         (28.000)       93                -          -                  (2,000)                  (26,000)         -
15  IgCASA, Valencia                              S                (25)      300    (7,500)          (7,000)       93                -          -           -           -            -       (7,000)         -
16.  UEVAVERCA,   EntructiJada                    S                (25)      300    (7,500)          (7,000)       93                -          -           -           -            -       (7,000)         -
17. ARREAZA, Aragua-Darcelona                P                      25)      300    (7.500)          (1,000)       13                -     (1,000)          -        I
Refining    (10 - 12)                                    475       300   36,000            12,500        36                _-                 1,500           -                               11,000
Extraction  (13 - 17)                                   (110)      300  (142,500)         (81.000)       57                -     (1.000)       _        (40,000)         _        (40,000)      1
Total Refining:                                        1.615       300   378.000          182,500        48           110.000    306000      23,500           -            -                     000
Total Extraction:                                       (145)      300  (540)             (89.000)       58                -     (1.000)          -     (40.000)      (8.000)    (40.000)
Hedim Yield in Crude Oil:                                                                                                   507        15%         607,        207          757.         257        40%
So0CES:  (a) Asociacion de Industriale, de Aceites y Crazss Vegetales Conestibles ("ASOGRASAS'); (b) Bloque de Asociaciones de Productores Agricolas de los Llanos Occidantelos; (e) Investigetione of the
Hission in the LAding Plants.
L  Pso. 1-9:  Firno integrated in "ASOGRARAS" (Industrial organization for Edible Oils  nd Pate).  Pus. 10-17:  Independent anterprises.                                                                                  r 
P - mechanical pressing plant.     S - extraction by solvent.     R - refining plant.
/3 Nambers in bratkets - processing of crude oil only.
Th  The totcl 1973 sese  crop will be distributed between the ASOGRAS4   - mebers so follows:  pos. I - 21.43%; 2 - 18.86%; 3 - 17.86%; 4 - 15.71%; 5 - 10.28%; 6 - 10.00%; 7 - 2.29%; 8 = 3.57%.
Pou. 5 - 8 (vitbont solvent - extraction) Sgt the extracted oil from 1 - 4 for refining.



V E N E Z U E L A
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supply and Demand of Sesame and Peanut Oil
(ton/year)
Refined Sesame Oil                                Refined Peanut Oil
National                      Domestic            National                      Domestic
Year        Production    Importation    Consumption          Production    Importation    Consumption
1960          20,382           -           20,382                   -          2,617           2,617
1961          22,705           -           22,705                   -          1,802           1,802
1962          32,181           1           32,182                   -          3,993           3,993
1963          22,723           2           22,725                   -          4,552           4,552
1964          26,068           2           26,070                   -          4,843           4,843
1965          28,365           5           28,370                   -          5,159           5,159
1966          32,035           4           32,039                   -          1,803           1,803
1967          31,578           1           31,579                   -          3,591           3,591
1968          36,972           2           36,974                   -          4,678           4,678
1969          37,188           1           37,189                   -          3,650           3,650
1970          38,620           2           38,622                   -          3,189           3,189
1971          38,047           -           38,047                 100          3,626           3s726
1972          49,ooo           -           49,000               1,200          2,719           3,919
SOURCE:  (a) for 1960-1971:  Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria:  Statistical Yearbook 1971.     
Ministerio de Finanzas:  Boletines Anuales del Comercio Exterior.
(b) for 1972s       Production results, given by the processing plants and ASOGRASAS.



VENEZUELA
i*                                                                                                 AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Protect Cash  o1
((8 thousands)
Year         .1              2          3          4           5          6           7          a           9          10          11          12          13         14         15           16         17
Inf lrve
IUD ln                           7.915     25,335       36,420     22,165      3,165         -                                 _                                                           -
Proceeds of 80nd.Issu            25.000                                                                               -          -           -          -
FA's oun resources               10.000     10,000       12,000      4,628
Capital senerated by
froject 1/                      1,737      5,212        6,949      3,474                                                 -                            -                 -          -           -           -
Loom repaywrnts by
asb-borrer. 2/                    -        1,670        6,812     13,863    17.744      18,148      18,581     19.158      19,447     19,447       17,647      12,245      5,044       1,443      1.299         866        286
Interest paymnts by
s.b-borrowrs 3/                   -        1,911        7,460     14,355    16,649      14,697      12,700     10.656       8.550      6.410        4.271       2,330         984        428        270         127         31
Total Inflow               44,652     44,128       69,641     58.303    37,558      32.845      31,281     29,814      27,997     25,857       21,918      14.575       6.028      1.871      1,569         993        317
Outflow
NA losg. to s-b-borrowers        17.372     52,116       69.488      34,744                   -          -           -                -           -           -           -           -          -           -                -
Interest sod c,itnent
paymets to I13D                   905       2,257       4,356      6,142        -           -          -                                                          -           _-         -_
Principal and interest
pay_anto to IWD                   -           -           -                  13,683      13.683     13.683      13,683     13,683      13,683       13,683     13,683      13,683      13,683        -
Atietitr.tive costs 4/            1,230       2,262       3,153       3,362     2,920       2,475      2,289       1,833      1,375       1,180          740         179         78          49         23           6          2
lateresE payments on  ood.          -         1,813       1,813       1,813       -           -          -           ..-                                                                    .                       -
Amertisatton d interest
mn Bonds 5/                       -                       -           -       3,601       3.601      3,601       3,601      3,601       3.601        3,601      3,601       3,601       3,601
titbdrsel of counterpart funds    -             -           -           -       10,000     10,000     10.000      10.000      10,000      4.000          .                       -          -          -
Total Outflow              19,507     58.448       78.810     46,061    30.204       29,759     29.573      29,117     28.659      22,464       18,024      7,463      17,362      17.333         23           6          2
Nat cash intfl   (outflow)       25,145    (14,320)       9,169      12.444      7,354      3,086       1,708        697        (662)     3,393        3.894      (2,888)   (11,334)   (15,462)    1,546           987        315
CuaaiSvc cash inflov
(outflow)                      25,145     10,825        1,656     14,100    21.454       24,540     26,238      26,945     26,283      29.676       33.570     30,682      19,348       3.886      5,432       6.419     6,734
1I Sub-borrowers -uder the Project are required to purchase BDA stock equal in amount to 57. of their loan.  These purchases are oatched
by an equivalent stock purchase by Governe.nt.
2/ Lo-e  for annu l crops repayable over 10 years I.nluding one year grace
1oans for agro-indus try repaysable over 10 years inc luding two years grace.
lans for perennial crop. repayable over 14 years including five years grate.
3/  Sub-borrowers effective interest rate 10%.
4/  Includes estiated cost of technical stsff required for project and 1% of annual balences outstanding on project sub-loans to cover
increamental dtnistrative costu and bad debts.
5/ Bondo soortimed over 10 years after 3 ycrr grace period.






ANNEX 7
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Estimate
(in US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal Year         Disbursements during         Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter              Quarter Ending                at End of Quarter
1973/74
June 30, 197412/              400                            400
1974/75
September 30, 1974            600                          1,000
December 31, 1974           1,000                          2,000
March 31, 1975              1,200                          3,200
June 30, 1975               1,400                        41,600
1975/76
September 30, 1975          1,600                          6,200
December 31, 1975           1,800                          8,000
0                 March 31, 1976               2,000                        10,000
June 30, 1976               2,200                         12,200
1976/77
September 30, 1976          2,,400                        14.,600
December 31, 1976           1,900                         16,500
March 31, 1977              1,600                         18,100
June 30, 1977               1,400                         19,500
1977/78
September 30, 1977          1,200                         20,700
December 31, 1977             800                         21,500
March 31, 1978                 300                        21,800
June 30, 1978                 200                         22,000
1/  Estimated date of loan signing, December 28, 1973.
Estimated date of effectiveness, February 28, 1974.
June 22, 1973






ANNEX 8
Page 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit in Venezuela
1.        Up to the end of 1969 nearly two-thirds of the institutional agri-
cultural credit in Venezuela was provided by the Government owned Banco Agri-
cola y Pecuario (BAP), the remainder coming from budgetary allocations main-
ly administered by BAP, and from commercial banks. Since early 1970 however,
the role of BAP, although it is still substantially the most important sin-
gle source of credit in terms of volume, has diminished somewhat.
2.        In the second half of 1969, the Banco Desarrollo Agropecuario
(BDA) owned in equal shares by Government and the private sector, was estab-
lished with the principal objective of providing credit to commercial farmers
(Annex 9). In addition to developing a portfolio from its own resources,
BDA took over the administration of all loans administered by RAP bearing an
interest rate of 4% or more (with the exception of loans which are partly
financed from IDB or AID funds). This involved the transfer of about 16,000
loans totalling Bs625 million (US$145 million) from BAP to BDA. Another
factor which has contributed to the relative diminution of RAP's share of the
total agricultural portfolio during the period 1970/72 has been a substan-
tial increase in commercial bank short-term lending to the livestock sub-
sector for beef production.
3.        At December 31, 1972, bank loans outstanding to the agricultural
sector totalled Bs1,768 million (US$411 million) representing 14.9% of total
bank loans to all sectors. Of the outstandings to agriculture 47% was held
by commercial banks (two-thirds being short-term loans for livestock fatten-
ing), 40% by BAP and 13% by BDA.
4.        Commercial Banks.  There are some 35 commercial banks operating in
Venezuela; mostly headquartered in the Caracas area but with nearly 500
branch offices distributed throughout the developed parts of the country.
The bulk of commercial bank lending is for commerce, industry and services
and, at December 31, 1972, only about 7% of the amount of loans outstanding
with commercial banks was for agriculture. Historically, commercial bank
loans to agriculture, as to other sectors, have been short-term as the banks
were not permitted under the General Banking Law to extend credit with more
than two years maturity. Recent legislation, however, permits commercial
banks to lend up to 25% of their assets for up to five years, subject to
certain security stipulations, and not less than one quarter of such loans
must be for agricultural purposes. The definition of agricultural purposes is
susceptible to broad interpretation and commercial banks have been able to
comply with the legislation by lending to agro-industry rather than for on-
farm investments.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Interest rates are restricted by the General Banking Law to 12% per
annum up to which they are regulated by directions of the Central Bank; the
current maximum being 11% per annum. Commercial bank rates for agricultural
lending range from 10%-11% depending on the status of the borrower (a substan-
tial part of commercial banks lending for agricultural purposes is to custo-
mers with other main interests). Various charges levied on the borrower for
documentation, registration etc., amount to the equivalent of about one per-
centage point in addition to the nominal interest. Furthermore, it is the
practice to discount interest on short-term loans thus increasing the effec-
tive interest charge on such loans.
6.        Banco Agricola y Pecuario (BAP) was founded in 1928 as an autonomous
government-owned corporation under the supervision of the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MAC). BAP's functions are the supply of credit to small and medium
sized farmers 1/ including settlers under the Agrarian Reform Program. Prior
to the establishment of Banco Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA) BAP also lent to
some large commercial farmers but this function has now been taken over by
BDA to whom BAP has transferred its commercial loan portfolio (Annex 10).
7.        BAP's lending resources totalled Bs1,964 million (US$456 million) at
end FY72 of which Bs1,322 million (US$307 million) represented capital and
reserves, the balance being made up of government and private sector sight and
term deposits, discounts with the Central Bank, long-term loans from AID, IDB
and US-EXIM Bank and Government Special Fund Deposits. BAP's resources are
augmented annually by Government budgetary allocations which amounted to Bs325
million (US$76 million) in 1971 and Bs248 million (US$58 million) in 1972.
8.        During the ten year period 1963-1972 BAP disbursed a total of
Bs2,227 million (US$518 million) through the various programs under its con-
trol.  Of this amount Bs1,317 million (US$307 million) was to small fanaers;
90% in the form of short-term production loans. During the same period iL
disbursed a further Bs5O5 million (US$118 million) from funds allocated by
government for schemes controlled by MAC but information on the proportion of
this amount lent to small farmers is not available.
9.        BAP administers the agricultural credit component of the US$181 mil-
lion Integrated Agricultural Credit Program (PRIDA) for which IDB has made
loans totalling US$75 million. The PRIDA Project is intended to develop 120
farm settlements and the agricultural credit component; totalling US$37 mil-
lion equivalent including an IDB contribution of US$14.8 million equivalent
is for the provision of production and on-farm investment credit to assist
settler families through settlement associations. To March 31, 1973 3AP had
disbursed a total of US$ 6.3 million equivalent of which US$3.1 equivalent was
in the form of short-term loans and US$3.1 million equivalent was for medium-
and long-term.
1/   Small farmers are defined as those having a gross annual income of up to
Bs3O,000 (US$7,000) while medium farmers are those with gross annual in-
comes of between Bs3O,000 and Bs7O,000 (US$16,000). Farmers with higher
gross annual incomes are considered as large farmers.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
10.       BAP's collection record has been very poor and, although detailed
records including analyses of age of arrears is not available, it is estimated
that at least 30X of the amount of loans outstanding is in serious default.
In contrast, loans made under the AID financed Supervised Credit Scheme, which
BAP administers, has a recovery rate of 96%. BAP makes substantial annual
provision for bad debts and at end of FY72, the "Reserve for Doubtful Debts"
stood at Bs476 million (US$111 million) equivalent to 47% of its ordinary
loan portfolio.
11.       BAP is obliged by its law to restrict the interest charges on its
loans to less than 4% per annum. In consequence loans to small farmers carry
interest rates of about 3% depending on loan purpose while loans to non-com-
mercial medium-sized farmers are charged at 3.99% per annum.
12.       BAP, which has 64 branches spread throughout the country, provides
a full range of banking services and was, until the Agricultural Marketing
Corporation commenced operations in 1971, responsible for implementing the
Government's agricultural price support program. BAP has consistently sus-
tained heavy operating losses which have been reimbursed from Government
budgetary allocations. Its staff resources are fully stretched and the slow
disbursement of the IDB financed agricultural credit scheme is reported to
be due, in large measure, to a shortage of technical staff. However, BAP
has not availed itself of a US$200,000 component for increasing staff.
June 26, 1973






ANNEX 9
Page 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, S.A. (BDA)
Background
1.        In response to the needs of the commercial sector of agriculture,
for which credit was not always available in sufficient quantity from the
existing Banco Agricola y Pecuario (BAP) or on suitable repayment terms from
the commercial banks, 1/ Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA) was created
by Government as a joint stock corporation by a law dated July 20, 1967. 2/
BDA was formally established in August 1969, when the legally required mini-
mum capital of Bs2O million (US$4.7 million) had been subscribed, and com-
menced business operations in January 1970 from rented premises in Caracas.
Objectives and Functions
2.        BDA's objectives, functions and organization are defined by the law
under which it was established. 3/ Its stated objectives are: to stimulate
the increased productivity of agricultural, livestock, forestry and fishery
enterprises; to improve the living standards of workers in those enterprises
and to promote and strengthen rural cooperatives and farmers' associations
through the extension of credit. BDA may engage in all normal commercial
banking activities. It can grant all types of credit on short-, medium- and
long-term to commercial-type agricultural enterprises; it may receive sight,
term and saving deposits; issue mortgage certificates and saving bonds, dis-
count and rediscount commercial paper with the Central Bank; contract loans,
both domestic and foreign; and carry out trustee operations. BDA is permitted
to purchase shares of other companies up to an amount equal to 20% of BDA's
paid-in capital and reserves subject to a maximum holding in any one company
of 10% of that company's paid capital. 4/ BDA can purchase, sell, export or
otherwise deal in all types of agricultural products, issue guarantee con-
tracts and carry out such other activities as may be necessary to achieve its
legal objectives.
1/   Commercial banks were not permitted to lend for terms exceeding two years
prior to the enactment of a new General Banking Law in 1970 which extended
the permissable lending term to five years.
2/   Ley del Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario published in the Official Gazette
No. 28,397 of August 5, 1967.
3/   In matters which its own law does not regulate BDA is subject to the General
Banking Law (Ley General de Bancos y Otros Institutos de Credito, 1970) and
Code of Commerce, 1955.
4/   The restrictions are slightly different in respect to investments in other
banking companies.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Capital and Resources
3.        The authorized capital of BDA is BslOo million (US$24 million)
represented by one million shares with a nominal value of Bsl0O each and
divided into 500,000 "Class A" shares, which are reserved for purchase by the
Government of Venezuela and 500,000 "Class B" shares purchaseable only by the
private sector. All share issues must consist of an equal amount of shares
from each class so that ownership of BDA is always equally divided between
Government and the private sector. A unique feature of BDA's capital forma-
tion is that each borrower must own "Class B" shares equivalent to 5% of the
loan amount approved to him and purchases of stock made by borrowers in ful-
fillment of this requirement are matched by an equivalent purchase of "Class
A" shares by Government.
4.        BDA's sources of funds are its paid-in capital, interest frte cur-
rent accounts balances, savings accounts (interest 4% per annum), time depo-
sits (4-1/2% to 7-1/2%) from the private sector and Government entities, dis-
counts from the Central Bank (5% for up to 360 days with facilities for redis-
counts and the 4% trust portfolio management commission (see para 12).
Organization and Administration
5.        Over-all control of BDA's activities is vested in the shateholders
who meet in General Assembly in February and August of each year under the
chairmanship of the President of BDA.  An Extraordinary Assembly may be called
at any time by two members of the Board of Directors or at the request of
shareholders representing not less than 25% of the paid-in capital. The
General Assembly approves the semi-annual report of the Board of Directors,
the semi-annual balance sheet and profit and loss statement, allocacions to
reserve accounts, the distribution of profits and the annual budget and lend-
ing program. It establishes the salary and allowances payable to BDA's
President and Directors, decides on the appointment and remuneration of the
auditors and determines all matters of general policy. The President, Direc-
tors and General Manager cannot vote at shareholders Assemblies on the ap-
proval of the accounts or on matters relating to their administrative acti-
vities; neither are they permitted to represent other shareholders at Assem-
blies.
6.        The administration of BDA is entrusted to a Board of Directors com-
posed of five members, each serving for a two-year period but eligible for
reappointment. Two, representing Government's "Class A" shares are appointed
by the President of Venezuela and the other three are elected by the holders
of "Class B" shares by secret ballot. Each of the Directors has an Alternate
appointed in the same manner as the Director. The President of BDA, who is
its chief executive and legal representative and is also the Chairman of the



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Board of Directors, is one of the appointees of the National President. The
Vice-President, who substitutes for the President during the latter's absence,
is elected by the Board of Directors from among its own members. The General
Manager of BDA acts as Secretary to the Board and is entitled to speak at
meetings but does not have a vote. The Board of Directors is required by
BDA's Articles of Association to meet at least once per week. Three members,
of whom one must be the President or, in his absence, the Vice-President,
constitute a quorum and decisions of the Board must be affirmed by at least
three of its members. In case of a tie the Chairman of the meeting has a
casting vote.
7.        The Board of Directors appoints BDA's General Manager and top
executives from candidates submitted by the President. It decides the open-
ing and closing of branch offices; nominates local and international corres-
pondents; grants loans and authorizes the provision of technical assistance
to enterprises, cooperatives and associations in order to encourage the
development of the Venezuelan agriculture, livestock, forestry and fishing
industries; determines the borrowing from domestic and foreign sources,
authorizes BDA executives to grant loans, recommends to shareholders the
distribution of profits, allocations to reserves and increases in capital;
submits the semi-annual balance sheets, profit and loss statements, Board of
Directors reports, annual credit program and operating budget to the General
Assembly of shareholders; and approves BDA's administrative regulations.
8.        BDA's President, a former Minister of Agriculture, has held his
present office since the bank's establishment. He is closely involved in the
day-to-day operations of BDA and has been substantially responsible for its
rapid development. Present members of the Board, who are part-time executives
of BDA, each have extensive farming experience and are prominent members of
the Venezuela farming community. While having no banking experience, they are
conversant with commercial practices and are conscientiously concerned with
the sound development of BDA.
9.        By offering comparatively high salaries and other benefits BDA has
succeeded in building up a well qualified and competent staff; mainly by at-
tracting above average people from other banks, commercial houses and govern-
ment but also by recruiting a number of exceptionally talented young univer-
sity and college graduates.  Staff at end May 1973 totalled 471 of whom 238
were employed at Head Office and 233 at branches agencies and L.echnical offi-
ces. There were 93 university graduates, as detailed below, and 48 holders of
agricultural college diplomas:
0



ANNEX 9
Page 4
University Graduates
Economists                     6
Certified Accountants          2
Lawyers                        6
Veterinarians                  2
Agronomhists                  27
Livestock Specialists         23
Others                        27
Total               93
All branch and technical office managers had gained a considerable banking
background before joining BDA and the technical staff have a broad range of
experience in agricultural and livestock production.
10.       During its first three years of operation, vhich ended December 31,
1972, BDA was authorized under its law to establish branches, agencies and
technical offices without the prior permission of the Superintendent of
Banks. 1/  BDA has opened six branches, six agencies and six technical of-
fices which, while inevitably widely scattered, provide reasonable coverage
throughout the developed areas of the country (see map). During its first
three years of operations, BDA has suffered from increasingly severe space
constraints at headquarters; staff is at present occupying offices in four
separate buildings, but the situation was expected to be eased when a new
building, in which BDA has reserved adequate space, was expected to be com-
pleted in the latter part of 1973.
Lending Operations
11.       Owing to an acute shortage of loug-term lending resources, BDA was
obliged during the first three years of its operation to restrict its lending
to short-term and, to a much lesser extent, medium-term credit. During the
period 1970-72, BDA granted 8,272 loans to 3,240 borrowers for a total amount
of Bs599 million (US$139 million) (table 1). Loans approved during 1972
amounted to Bs273 million (US$64 million) with an average loan size of Bs70,000
(US$16,000).  At end 1972, there was 2,866 loans outstanding totalling Bs218
1/   The General Banking Law requires that Banks shall obtain the specific
approval of the Superintendent of Banks before opening new offices and
the granting of such permission is influenced by the number of bank
offices already in the area in which it is desired to open the new office.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
million (US$51 million) which included 602 loans aggregating Bs56 million
(US$13 million) of medium-term (two to five years) maturity (table 2). The
comparative figures at end 1971 were 1,732 loans totalling Bs129 million
(US$30 million) of which 164 loans amounting to Bs28 million (US$6 million)
were of medium term. Since June 1972, when the Bank-financed livestock pro-
ject 807-VE became effective, BDA has been able to provide eight-to ten-year
loans for livestock investment.  The proposed Project would enable BDA to
extend its medium-and long-term lending into the agricultural sub-sector for
which there is substantial demand.
Trust Fund Operation (FIDEICOMISO)
12.       The law establishing BDA provides that all agricultural loans pre-
viously granted by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAC), Banco Agricula y Pecua-
rio (BAP) and Corporacion Venezolana de Pomento (CVF) bearing interest at 4%
per annum or higher (with the exception of loans granted under programs fi-
nanced with USAID or IDB funds) must be transferred to BDA in trust for col-
lection and reinvestment. By end 1972, nearly 16,000 loans totalling Bs625
million (US$145 million) had been transferred to BDA. These comprised loans
amounting to Bs427 million (US$99 million) granted by the Ministry of Agri-
culture under the Livestock Development Plan (PFP) and administered by BAP,
Bs189 million (US$44 million) which had formed part of BAP's Commercial Farmer
Portfolio (CEA) and Bs9 million (US$2 million) which had been lent by the
Venezuelan Development Corporation (CVF). Loans granted under PFP were for
beef production, dairying and pig production in amounts ranging from Bs5,000
(US$1,160) to Bs500,000 (US$116,000) with interest at 4% per annum for periods
ranging from 5 to 16 years including grace periods of from 2 to 4 years. CEA
loans transferred to BDA comprised loans of Bs15,000 (US$3,500) or more per
borrower with an annual interest rate of 4% or more. Loan repayment periods
nominally range from 180 days to 12 years and security is either a crop lien
or a real estate mortgage depending on purpose. CVF loans were mainly for
sugar cane production or the purchase of fishing vessels and were for varying
repayment periods with interest at 6% per annum. The records relating to the
FIDEICOMISO loans were in a chronically poor state when received by BDA re-
flecting the very inefficient manner in which they had previously been admin-
istered. BDA has employed consultants to carry out on-farm inspections to
appraise the recovery potential of the loans while its own staff has done
commendable work in analysing the accounts, building up the financial records
and evaluating the securities. Many of the loans have been re-scheduled while
others have been transferred the new owners of mortgaged property which has
been taken over as repayment of the original borrowers obligation. Loans
which the consultants reports indicate cannot be substantially recovered,
either from the borrower or by sale of the security, are transferred back to
BAP.
13.       Up to December 31, 1972 a total of Bs113 million (US$26 million) had
been recovered in cash, by sale of mortgaged property and by transfer of
loans. It is anticipated that after the work of locating borrowers, analysing
accounts and evaluating mortgage property has been completed, hopefully by the
end of 1973, cash collections will improve considerably.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
14.       Funds recovered from FIDEICOMISO loans, after provision for BDA's
Management fee, are re-lent, subject to MAC approval, for the same purposes as
covered by the respective funds. Lending terms are the same except that bor-
rowers are required to provide ten percent of investment costs from their own
resources instead of receiving a one hundred per cent loan as was previously
the practice. For administering the FIDEICOMISO funds, for which it does not
assume any financial responsibility and is not answerable for bad debts, BDA
receives an annual management fee equal to 4% of the total trust portfolio.
As the loans carry an interest rate of 4% or more collections of current in-
terest should about cover BDA's fee after the latter has completed its reor-
ganization of the portfolio. In FY1972 FIDEICOMISO Management fee provided
about 60% of BDA's total income.
Financial Situation
15.       During the period 1970/72 BDA incurred high administrative and per-
sonnel costs while its lending volume was still low. This reflected the rapid
build-up of staff, many recruited at comparatively high salaries, in order
to obtain good-calibre people, and the heavy cost of opening branch offices
as quickly as possible in order to take advantage of the free period permitted
under its law (para 10). In consequence administrative and personnel costs
were, annually, more than 6% of average loan balance.
16.       Nevertheless, by end FY 1972, BDA had build up a sound financial
position.  As of December 31, 1972, assets were Bs343 million (US$80 million),
liabilities Bs282 million (US$66 million), paid-in capital Bs45 million
(US$10 million), reserves Bs16 million (US$4 million); and the ratio of medi-
um- and long-term debt to equity was 2.5:1. Short-term assets, including 50
percent of the short-term loan portfolio, was nearly double (198%) short-term
liabilities.
17.       The fee received for administering the FIDEICOMISO portfolio has
thus far provided the major part of BDA's earnings but it is anticipated by
BDA management that, by 1974, income from its own loans will exceed that re-
ceived from the FIDEICOMISO management fee. Annual net-profit for the years
1970-1972 averaged Bs6.6 million (US$1.5 million) which, after a 3% annual
dividend to shareholders (distributed in the form of additional capital stock)
was allocated to statutory and other reserves.
Reserve requirements are fixed by law as follows:
(a)  Legal Reserve - 20% of profits up to 50% of capitalization
then 10% of profits until 75% of capitaliza-
tion is reached.
(b) Reserve for Bad Debts - 10% of profits up to 40% of loans
granted by BDA from its own resources.
0



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(c)  Contingency Reserve - 5% of profits up to 10% of loan
portfolio.
(d)  Special Reserve Fund - 5% of profits up to 20% of paid capital
(to provide for future
dividend payments)
Reserves and Undistributed Profits at December 31, 1972 were:
Bs '000
Legal Reserve                                       3,983
Bad Debt Reserve                                    1,992
Contingency Reserve                                   996
Special Reserve Fund                                  996
Undistributed Dividends                               352
Building Reserve Fund                               6,050
Unallocated Profits                                 1,761
Total                    16,130
18.       It is anticipated that BDA's financial condition will continue to be
sound and its operating results satisfactory particularly as physical growth
during the next few years is likely to be at a less rapid pace than during the
first three years of operation leading to some stabilization of administrative
costs while operating income will increase as loan volume expands.
Arrears
19.       BDA's arrears at December 31, 1972, totalled Bs26 million (US$6 mil-
lion), equivalent to 12% of portfolio, representing 650 loans of which about
half was past-due for more than 90 days. These arrears were mainly in respect
of short-term production loans made in the Llanos Occidentales area which had
suffered two consecutive seasons of unduly heavy rains followed by drought
conditions in 1970/71 and 1971/72 which caused serious damage to the rice, maize
and sesame crops. A good rice crop harvested in October 1972 was expected to
bring about a substantial reduction in the arrears and BDA does not anticipate
that any bad debts will ensue. Debt recovery procedures are quite sound.
Lending Policy and Procedures
20.       BDA's primary function is to provide short- (up to two years), medi-
um- (up to seven years), and long-term ( up to 20 years) credit to commercial
type agricultural enterprises. No minimum or maximum criteria as to farm
size are applied. BDA has, however, lent during its first three years of
operations mainly to farmers having a gross income of more than Bs 70,000



ANNEX 9
Page 8
(US$ 16,000) which corresponds to a net income of about US$ 4,000 to UJS$ 5,000
per annum. Assuming a family of four to five this amounts to a net income per
capita of about than US$ 1,000 annually. The proposed Project would to a
considerable extent also benefit medium size farmers having a gross income
in the range of Bs 30,000 to 70,000 (US$ 7,000 to US$ 16,000), corresponding
to a net family income of about US$ 2,000 to US$ 4,000 or some US$ 500 to
US$ 1,000 per member of the family. These smaller-type commercial farmers would
benefit from the Project in three different ways: (i) by receiving a direct med-
ium or long-term loan from BDA for on-farm investments; (ii) by participation in
a farmers association receiving a group loan from BDA together with technical
assistance; or (iii) by joining with neighbors to borrow for joint irrigation
investment in a water sharing arrangement. Each of these forms of lending
would be a new type of financing for BDA. Under BDA's law direct loans are
limited to Bs500,000 (US$116,000) and guarantees or letters of credit to Bsl
million (US$233,000) in respect of individual beneficiaries. In exceptional
cases, the Directors may approve loans or guarantees to associations or
societies of commercial producers for certain specified investments or for
on-lending to individual members up to an amount not exceeding 10% of BDA's
paid-in capital and reserves. Loans may be secured by (a) mortgage (real
estate or chattel); (b) agrarian or industrial pledges; (c) mortgage on long-
term rights of occupancy; (d) bonds and guarantees of third narties; and (e)
agrarian debts bonds as stipulated in the Agrarian Reform Law. Loans may not
exceed two-thirds of the market value of the security provided. Amortization
schedules and grace periods are determined in accordance with regulations
issued from time to time by the Board of Directors and take into account the
borrowers investment program and repayment capacity.
21.       Farmers Associations.  BDA has assigned a small unit headed by a lawyer
to investigate and formulate methods of establishment and operation of farmers
associations in order to develop a sound method whereby smaller farmers, who as
individuals would be precluded by lack of security or other constraints, will be
able to participate in BDA's lending programs. Over a two-year period the unit
has studied procedures in operation in other countries and has evolved a system
whereby groups of interested farmers, with geographical or product affinity,
will be formed into legally registered associations with an "A" share and "B"
share capital structure in the ratio 1:9. BDA will purchase the 'A' shares (it
is limited to 10% equity participation in any one company under the General
Banking Law) while the 'B' share capital will be subscribed by the farmer mem-
bers. As owners of the 'A' share capital BDA will have the right to appoint the
Vice President of each association and to approve the appointment of the General
Manager. This system will enable BDA to provide strong guidance to the associa-
tions while leaving overall control in the hands of the members. To date, BDA
has formed two such associations whose progress will be carefully followed for
some months so that the experience gained can be utilized to rapidly expand the
movement. The proposed Project would finance a few investments in such associa-
tions.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
Guarantee Operations
22.       In addition to its direct lending operation BDA provides guarantees
in respect of farm machinery purchased by its constituents on time payment
from suppliers.  BDA charges the purchaser an annual fee of 2% for guarantee-
ing his debt to the supplier which is repayable over five years at 7% per
annum interest.  Farmers borrowing under the Project for machinery purchase
would benefit considerably in comparison with purchases made under the sup-
plier guarantee system as suppliers offer substantial discounts, up to 25%, for
cash purchases.
Loan Procedures
23.       BDA's loan approval and administration methods, which are governed
by comprehensive regulations, are generally sound. Approvals of all loans are
based on an appraisal report prepared by a BDA technician and, after a loan
has been granted, supervision visits are made at appropriate interv.ls. Field
staff, who are competent and hard-working, are required to estimate the value
of the security offered and to report on the credit worthiness and repayment
capacity of the loan applicant in addition to making a detailed assessment of
the viability of the proposed investment. Until recently, it has been the
practice to make all loan approvals at the Board of Director level in Caracas,
reflecting a desire to properly assess the competence of branch managers be-
fore granting them loan approval authority. Loan committees are now being
established at branch level, with the local manager as chairman, which will
be permitted to approve loans within limits which will be authorized for
each branch by the Board of Directors. As of May 1, 1973, the following
branches had authority to approve loans amounting from Bs5O,000 to Bs150,000
(US$13,000 to US$36,000): Maracaibo, San Cristobal, Acarigua, and Calabozo.
Project Management
24.       BDA staff would assist sub-loan applicants in the preparation of
detailed investment programs including farm plans, income and expenditure
estimates and cash flow projections and would appraise all sub-projects in
terms of incremental returns. BDA's present technical staff which includes
2 veterinarians, 23 livestock specialists, and 27 agronomists, while of good
caliber, would be inadequate in numbers to appraise and supervise the proposed
Project. It would be necessary, therefore, for BDA to recruit and train addi-
tional technical staff to execute the Project satisfactorily.
Interest Rates
25.       Interest rates on loans are also set by the Board of Directors with-
in the limits permitted by the Central Bank. Loans granted since September 1,
1971 bear interest at 9% per annum; loans with a maturity of up to two years
are discounted at the beginning of each year. Interest on loans of more than
two years' maturity is charged annually or semi-annually on the outstanding
balance.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Accounts and Audit
26.       BDA's law provides that two auditors (Comisarios) are appointed by
the General Assembly of shareholders to audit its operation. In addition,
BDA employes a local firm of chartered accountants which carries out a thor-
ough semi-annual audit. Both the Comisarios and the accountants provide com-
prehensive half-yearly reports on BDA's operation and accounts. Under the
General Banking Law, BDA, in common with all banks operating in Venezuela,
is subject to audit and supervision by the Superintendent of Banks. BDA is
well organized with a competent staff and positive leadership.  Its account-
ing and reporting systems are sound.
August 20, 1973



VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, S.A.
0
Loans Granted by Purpose
Year Ended Dec. 31, 70        Year Ended Dec. 31, 71          Year Ended Dec. 31, 72
No. of         Amount          No. of          Amount          No. of         Amount
Loans        (Bs thousands)   Loans          (Bs thousands)   Loans          (Bs thousands)
Purpose
Crop Production:            1,217            77,694         1,683            85,854         l907           104,560
Cereals                    575            26,957           836            38,386           878          46,898
Legumes                     -                 -             21               599           160            5,264
Oilseeds                   366            21,496           540            24,940           576           26,832
Root Crops                  77             2,661           113             2,465           111            2,429
Fruit                        3               360             5               249            10              487
Vegetables                  10             1,520             6               200             5              220
Other Crops                186            24,700           162            19,015           167           22,430
Livestock:                    425            38,361           712            68,654         1,476          105,416
Beef                       164            18,820           256            23,100           351           31,636
Dairy                      129            13,154           195            24,380           482           42,012
Pigs                        12               843            92            10,530            42           4,290
Poultry                     _                 -              2               120             4              370
Other Livestock            120             5,544           167            10,524           597           27,108
Fishing                        _                 -             -                 -              2              762
Forestry  -   -  2            152             1              300
General Agriculture:           22             1,559           208            28,972           420           44,006
Land Clearance               8               569            25             2,005            49            3,203
Machinery and Implements   14                990             7               569            16            1,440
Irrigation                  -                 -             -                 -             22            1,813
Miscellaneous               -                 -            176            26,398           333           37,550
Guarantees and Letters of      13             4,679           132            19,468            52           18,392
Credit
Total                 1677            122,_293        2,737           203,100         3,858          273,436
F'0



VENEZUELA
Cr
m:3                                                                    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, S.A.
Year-End Balances of Loans Outstanding by Purpose and Term
(in Bs thousands)
December 31. 1970                           December 31. 1971                           December 31. 1972
No. of      Short    Medium                 No. of      Short    Medium                 No. of      Short    Medium
loans       term      term        Total    loans        term      term       Total      loans       term      term         Total
Purpose
Crop Production:              423      -30,802                 30,802       881      39,697         -        -        1,333       57,984    2,400
Cereals                   184        8,548        -        8,548        278     11,807          -        -          587       23,404
Legumes                    -             -        -            -         21         599         -        -           25        1,100
Oilseeds                  134       13,134        -       13,134       438      18,138          -        -          588       23,165
Root Crops                 24          800        -          800        47       1,000          -        -           10          290    2,400          -
Fruit                       3           360        -          360        -           -          -        -            2            25        -         -
Vegetables                  9        1,500        -        1,500          6         200         -                    -             -         -
Other Crops                79        6,460         -       6,460         91       7,953         -        -          121       10,000         -
Livestock:                    315                     200      23,377       530          -      24,900       -        1,122       43,675   48,258
Beef                       82        8,490        -        8,490        228     16,355          -        -          280       21,000         -
Dairy                     101        8,300       200       8,500        121          -      21,000       -          482            -    44,100
Pigs                       12          843         -          843        55       6,000         -        -           32        2,675         -
Poultry                           -                 -         -           -         -          -           -                -           -         -
Other Livestock           120        5,544         -       5,544        126      4,100       3,900       -          328       20,000    4,158          -
Fishing--                                                          -         -           -           -       -             2           -        762
Forestry                       _           _      -                -          2          -         152       -             1           -        213
General Agriculture:            22        1,55319                                    20,000      2,574        -         408                   4,800
Land Clearance              8           569        -          569        25          -       2,005       -           42            -      2,800        -
Machinery and
Implements               14          990        -          990          7          -         569       -           16            -     1,400         -
Irrigation                 -             -         -           -         -           -          -        -            7            -        600        -
Miscellaneous               -            -         -           -        287      20,000         -        -          343       20,005         -         -
Guarantees and Letters
of Credit                     -       17,506         -       17,506        -       15.492          -       -            -        39,360        -          -
Total                 760                     200                 1,732    101,644    27.626_                  2,866      161,024   56,433        -



ANNEX 10
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
0                                                 BANCO De DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO (BDA)
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
At December 31, 1970-1977
(in Bs thousands)
1970      1971        1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977
Assets
Cash                             2,356       3,235     18,801      8,000      8,000     9,000      9,000    10,000
Deposits with Central Bank       7,935     15,275      18,375    22,500    23,000    23,500    24,000    24,500
Other banks                     15,042     20,496      33,600    12,500    12,300       8,600    11,200    21,500
Foreign currency                   625       1,839      1,816      1,800      2,000     2,000      2,000      2,000
Loans and discounts:
IBRD credit project             -          -           -          -      17,372    67,818   130,494   151,355
IBRD livestock project          -          -           -       27,300    58,300   101,000   12n,700   126,000
Others                      73,244    129,270    217,505   288,800   370,428   399,282   424,806   443,645
Advances                           -           -        3,200      5,000      7,000     9,000    11,000    13,000
Investments and securities         230        595         -          100        100       200        200        300
Fixed assets                       -           -                   5,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
Other assets                    12,849     82,233      50,031    79,000    70,415    54,000    55,000    56,000
Total assets            112,281    252,943    343,328   450,000   578,915   684,400   798,400   858,300
Contra Accounts
Conditional liabilities and
other off-set accounts       27,271    127,513    268,585   318,600   368,600   418,600   468,600   518,600
Trust operations              477,821    627,747    625,150   625,250   625,250   625,250   625,250   625,250
.         Liabilities
Deposits by the private
sector                        9,974      16,137      60,326    90,000   100,000   105,000   110,000   115,000
Government deposits             13,479      8,121       5,694    15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000
Government deposit under
Agriculture Debt Conversion Law -             -          -          -       10,000    20,000    40,000    40,000
Deposits by other state
enterprises                   28,698     41,176      70,271    98,000   115,000   115,000   115,000   115,000
Creditor banks                     432       1,066      3,688      4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000      4,000
Obligations with Central
Bank                         12,591      13,667       1,783    10,000    15,000    20,000    25,000    30,000
Agricultural Credit bonds          -           -           -         -       25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000
IBRD Loan:
Credit project                -          -           -          -       7,915    33,250    69,670    91,835
Livestock project             -          -           -        9,200    19,800    34,340    41,000    42,840
Government contribution for
livestock project                -          -           -       12,800    27,400    47,470    56,800    59,220
Other demand obligations         2,845      26,073     27,702    30,000    32,000    34,000    36,000    38,000
Other term obligations             750      31,276     51,274    52,000    61,800    65,340    75,930    79,405
Other liabilities               12,173     65,114      61,639    60,000    62,000    65.000    67,000    70,000
Sub-total                 80.942    202,630    282.377   381.000   494,915   583,400   680,400   725.300
Capital and Reserves
Paid in capital                 23,882     38,359      44,821    51,000    63,000    77,000    90,000   100,000
Reserves and undistributed
profits                        7,457     11,954      16.130    18,000    21,000    24,000    28.000    33,000
Sub-total                 31,339      50,313      60,951    69,000    84,000   101,000   118,000   133,000
Total liabilities        112.281    252,943    343,328   450,000   578,915   684,400   798,400   858,300
Contra Accounts                                                                          )
.         Conditional liabilities
(as per contra)              27,271    127,513    268,585   318,600   368,600   418,600   468,600   518,600
Trust funds                   477,821    627,747    625,150   625,250   625,250   625,250   625,250   625,250
September 27, 1973






*~~~~~~~~~~~~ * 
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO (8DA)
Actual and Projected Profit and Loss Accounts for Years Ending December 31, 1970-77
(in Bs)
Actual                                                Projected
1970        1971       1972                1973         1974        1975        1976         1977
w      Income
Loan operations                   2,631        7,630      13,760              25,900      35,700       50,500      64,200       78,900
4        Intermediary services and
other fees                         31           85         996                 300         500          700         900        1,100
Trust fund management fee        16,751      18,166       21,4                24,600      24,700       24,800      24,900       25,000
Total income                 19,413      25,881      3                   50,800       60,900      76,000       90,000    105,000
Expenses
Interest and coamissions            787       4,377        7,926              11,430      14,700       21,800      28,700       34,000
Salaries                          4,272       8,172       11,243              14,100      17,200       20,300      23,500       26,300
Other administrative costs        3,657        6,809      10,406              14,300      15,800       17,000      18,300       19,700
Depreciation and equipment          178          409         845               1,055       1,100        1,700       1,800        1,900
Miscellaneous expenses                -           -          200                 300          600         900        1,200       1,500
Total expenses                8,894      19,767      30,621              41,185       49,400      61,700       73,500      83,400
Net Profit before Taxes             10,519       6,114       5,609               9,615       11,500      14,300       16,500      19,600
Taxes 1/                          2,328           -                                -           -            -           -            -
Net Profit after Taxes               8,191       6,114       5,609               9,61        11,500      14,300       16,500      19,600
Aprorato  of255-J- Ne  Pofit
Legal reserve                     1,638        1,223       1,121               1,923       2,300       2,860         3,300       3,920
other statutory reserves          1,638        1,223       1,121               1,923       2,300       2,860         3,300       3,920
Other reserves, dividends
and unallocated profits       _.915         _           _,367                5,769      62900                 9, 900          11760
Total                    _8,191           I14       5,609                9,615    11,500       14,0          16,500      19,600
1/  BDA was granted exemption from income tax in 1971 on profits arising from its agricultural lending operation.  It is
expected that the position will be reviewed when Drofits from other operations become significant.






V E N E Z U E L A
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Income and Financial Rates of Return on Investment
Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Yield     Total Investment      Annual Costs8L       Year      Farmgate Price
mt/ha     ------------- Bs/ha ----------                         -- Bs/mt ----
~ Western Plains: Gravity Irrigation
Paddy/l                               3.Sv3                               1,252             1              550
Maiz''2                               3.5            2,544                  860             1              440
Maize (irrigated)                     3.5                                   940             1              440
Caraota (black bean)(irrigated)       1.1                                   876             1            1,350
Eastern Plains: Sprinkler Irrigation
Peanuts/2                             2.5/3                               1,300             1            1,200
Peanuts (irrigated)                   2.5                                 1,523             1            1,200
SorghumL.2                            3.3           2,627                   700             1              370
Beans(Fryols)(irrigated)              1.3                                   600             1            1,050
Citrus (Irrigation)                       20.0/4          9,072                1,600           9-20             250
Coconuts (Copra) (Irrigation)              2.0            1,354                1,200             3            1,100
/1   Under annual costs, depreciation of investment items is not included.
7-  Rainfed with supplemental irrigation.                                                                                            x
/3   Yields increase to rate shown in third year.
/4   No yield until fourth year.  Yields gradually increase from fourth to nine then level off as shown.
/5   Mature coconut plantation reaches full production three years after change over to irrigation.






ft                          V                                                                    -                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  172 I'            .             -.          -"
______ft-ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
ft(fftfftfttfttft  tftt((fft   t    ((ftf  (((  (f  ft(t.f      <ft ft       (((f         ((-ft         ft t. f        (f.ft        (ftft       (ft-t         ((t-f        (<f            (f  ft        ((f         ftfft.
-(((ft                               (ft         (ft.~~~~~~Il   (.ft       -(t           (t.t2(t                     (     ( .       t           t            f f 
ft ft  ft   ft                                                  ft ft  ft    (ft-ft            ft2                                 I             ' 7-
((((((ft  -ft(ftftftft                            ((((ft~~~0    (f.f          fttft        (t ft        ((ft          tft .ft      fttf.f         Itf          (f           ttf          ff.            (f           (tf           (t          (ttf
ft((  ft( ((  ftftft ((ft(ft (((    tDf              -(f    ft                                 l .( - ft              L     (                   `1( f t ft.'ft                              II             t.(I                     f
211.1   1-1~~~~~~~111 
((((ft                               (ft.~~~~~~E                      -        -       -       f       t                (ftV - --                                  -       T-        -                2-1           U--             f.f
ftftft-(ftft(ftft  ftft.ft  -       -             -            -                    ft.ft-(.ft-L,                                                                                                           -            -             -             -
((((ft ft(  ftft((( ((ftftft                        (ft.ft       ftft21 .ft   fff.t        (f.f           (f            tt         2-ftt          (ft-ft      ftfft.        fttf.f        (ftf         ((t.t         ((f          fftt(          tftf          fttf.t       ((f          ftt(f        ftftt.
(~~ft  (ft  ftft  ft.ft  (-ft  (ft          ft.ft        (.ft          (.ft         ft-ft          ( ( ( ( ( ft  .ft                         ft                                    -             -             -~~~L'  LILI-
ft ftftft(ft-ft(ft  -      -        .      .       .       (         f        t                   (    (    (    f t   ft     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4--  (.((f                                          f
(.ft(  ftft.f  (ft.ft  ftf.ft  (<ft  ((ft  ((((ft                 fft.ft        ((ft          tft.ft       (ft.           ft.-        ftf4.f
ft (~~~~~~(ft ((((ft ft (ft  ft -ft        ft           ft ~       ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -Ll                          LL         5LI               -j-iH                                                                                      L-
ft((t(ff.(ff(t                          (     t-                                                  f f. t                (tf            ttf           (t         ( < ((tf                    t f.ff-t                       t       (.t            (.(t.t                     (t.          (t-t         L.t          (f






ANX 13
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The rates of return from the Project to the economy have been
calculated separately for each farm model (as shown in the attached table)
on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a)  World market prices, as projected by the Commodities and
Export Projection Division of IBRD, have been used to esti-
mate benefits for all products except caraotas (black beans)
and kidney beans, which are regarded as "non-tradeable" and
for which current domestic prices have been used;
(b)  Current price levels have been used for investments;
(c)  Deductions have been made in respect of prevailing taxes and
custom duties on imported items;
(d)  Salvage values proportional ot unexpired asset life have been
included where appropriate;
(e)  Labor has been costed at current prevailing rates.
2.        The economic rates of return to the enterprises, estimated under
the assumptions outlined above, are satisfactory. Sensitivity tests were
run by assuming several levels of overvaluation of the exchange rate. These
estimates are as follows:
Sensitivity Analysis
Foreign Exchange
Revaluation
Best
Model                                      F.stimate       +10%       +20%
Annual Crop Production (Llanos)             15             22         30
Annual Crop Production (Llanos)             20             28          35
Citrus                                      21             22         23
Coconuit                                    15             22         28
Weighted Average                            19             26          33
3.        When weighted according to the relative share of each model in
the total project cost, the conomic rate of return is 19%.  A 15% increase
in annual operating cost reduces this rate to 10%.  The economic rate of
return is 26%, if an overvaluation of 10% in the exchange rate is assumed.
The rate increases to 33% if the overvaluation is about 20%.
July 6, 1973






V E N E Z U E L A
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return to the Enterprises
e.                                     Year: ......    1          2         3         4        5-6       7         8         9        10       11-12      13       14          15
Annual Crop Production - Llanos Orientales
Net Increnental Income                      33.8     60.5      87.3      87.3      87.3     87.3      87.3      87.3      87.3      87.3      87.3      87.3      179.3-
Capital Investment                        430.3       -         -        19.1       -        19.1    119.9       -       111.9       -        19.1       -          -
Net Incremental Flow                      (396.5)    60.5      87.3      68.2      87.3      68.2    (32.6)    87.3          6)    87.3       68.2     87.3       179.3
Economic Rate of Return:  15%
Annual Crop Production - Llanos Occidentales
N-e-t Inc-rermtental Income                 27.4      61.0     83.3      83.3      83.3      83.3     83.3      83.3      83.3      83.3      83.3      83.3       99.9-A/
Capital Investment                         347.3       -        -        17.8       -         7.2     88.0       -        19,1       -         7,2       -          -
Net Incremental Flow                      (319.9)    61.0      83.3      65.5      83.3      76,1      (4.7)    83.3      642       833       761       83.3       99.9
Economic Rate of Return:  20%
Year: .          1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8        9       10-17      18       19-20
Citrus
Tet Incremental Income                       -         -         -        (6.3)     6.4      30.7      59.4      75.8      85.0      85.0     85.0      85.0
Capital Investment                         175.4      15.5      15.5      -         -         -         _         -        8.4       -         9.1       -
Net Incremental Flow                      (175.4)   (15.5)   (15.5)    (6.3)        6.4      30.7      59.4     75.8      76.6      85.0      75.9      85.0
Economic Rate of Return:  17%
Year: .          1         2       3-6        7        8-14      15       16-20
Coconut
Net Incremental Income                       0.3       7.9      12.9     12.9      12.9      12.9      12.9
Capital Investment                          73.9       -         -        6.0       -         6.0       -                                                            > 
Net Incremental Flow                       (73.6)      7.9      12.9      6.9      12.9       6.9      12.9
Economic Rate of Return:  15%                                          -
a/ Includes salvage value of investments.



ANY,NEX 13
Table 2
Ag&rjcultura  Credit Pr:ojept
.aMpnt fI.r S,bi-rd   d Uns d  IJbor
No. of             Net
INlan-days per farm unit            Farms     IncriErI(M       pQin
Withait    With ,   iet
Project  Project   Increment                  Man/Day    Man/Year L/
Annual Crops
Lianos Occidentales      1,760    2,880    1,120             336       376,320      1,447
Llanos Orientales          640    2,120    1,480             90       133,fi200      512
Perennial Crops
Citrus                     --      1,000    1,000             40        40,000        15
Coconut                  2,100    3,,480    1,380             70        96,000        369
Tractor Operators            --        450      450             --       U7 S000        450
TOTAL                         --       --                      536       762,520      2,932
i/  '^ man-year is assd to be equivalent to 260 man/days.
Labor Coefficients
(Marn -days/hectare)
Without Project       With  .ept         Increment
'Lice                                 5                    6                 1
corr.                                 5                    7
Sesame                                £                    8
Caraota (Black Beans)                10                   15                 5
Corn (Irrigation)                     -                    7                 7
Grour.ddnut                           8                    8
Groundnut (Irrigation)                -                   14                14
Sorghum                               5                    5
Bean s                                2                    4                 2
August 19, 1973



IBRD 10533
JULY 1973
S   t  =      $     ~~~~~~~GU     A  N  A<'       t
_02  W  Su  4   u   i   <             ;  d          A,  ;    z 4
10
,, ax 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
N                              It
rv:iun                   I
. P Xa- A                           i
C,                          ,                                        i 
0)  (5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_






_~~     ~       ~       ~ ~             ~ ~~~                                            ~ ~              ~~ t |  t o     I  t     i               i               i                I               I
Aruso'k   iNetherlatIds Antt1                         I   .                                             ,             c                   i6
73'  7r                                              1.                              ~~~      ~      ~~~      ~      ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~66'  5  64'  61'
Corwb6xran i \ \>^,& <<eF~~~~~~~~~~~~C--  onaime                                                                                                                         49 GAND                         12'-
5                                                             uooa           UOrrhla 
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ov /f       P'°    Sv
/       / ,             S~~~~~~a  Carzono   <                       C   a r i  b  b   e             nS e 
'   f4/teicaot *   Ve r7 e z ae ae       S                                                                                              Mararita ts.                                             C/1TOiAGO
-  Totuo-                                                            IM 1R                   -
VENEZ/&UELA                            A                   R                 /                                                     Co,vponp
PROJECT AREAS- &CAGRCUATRALEVELPREN
7. ~~BAK NETWO URKEo<< 
*  I~~~~~~ijQfler~~~~~~~~~                  a~4                                                                                                                                        ' oEtAfl  Ur
R.so,,,                                                                                                                                        (/.E o0a/k 
4.  0                Offi~~~~~ak                                                                                      WAMEIwICA
El T.c.c.                                        A APwectAE~ 
Mar Bac                                                                                                    O      L,
St. B                                                                                 Co. m                                                          8o  RAZ 
de]EZ          A f,  UESA                                        ,~El B6 //                                                                        Be,,
*                                                                 *vtuaffers  J             A  M   A   Z  O   N   A   S    \    fA   64  64
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p'                                                                                                  Bol'ee  a,'   i
_,0                                                           TCob itsi\*   Etc
g   ~ ~   S   . i         M   71   S         Xt        o o   e  j           670               6  6  a ? -~~~~~~~~~ bSo      \,e     .        b36              Sr                .    ;B  0  L        A 



