Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19026-UZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
FOR A
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECCOl
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Som
105 Soln = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CBU - Central Bank of Uzbekistan
COM - Cabinet of Ministers
DO - Development Objective
EIBL - Enterprise Institutional Building Loan
ERL - Enterprise Reform Loan
ESW - Economic and Sector Work
FIBL - Financial tnstitutional Building Loan
FSD - Financial Sector Development Department
FSR - Financial Sector Review
FSU - Former Soviet Union
FY - Fiscal Year
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GOU - Government of Uzbekistan
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Agency
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
IP - Implementation Progress
LIBOR - London Interbank Offer Rate
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NBU - National Bank of Uzbekistan
NIP - National Investment Plan
NPAs- Non-Performing Assets
PISLA - Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME - Small and Medium Enterprise
STF - Social Transformation Fund
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
TACIS - Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent
States
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ishrat Husain
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Sector Leader: Yasuo Izumi
Team Leader: Itzhak Goldberg



PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Uzbekistan
Financial Institution Building Project
CONTENTS
Pages
A. Project Development Objective  .......................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ......................2
B. Strategic Context ............... . . .                                    .         . . ..2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...........................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................7
C. Project Description Summary .......................................................                            11
1. Project components ......................................................I 1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................... 12
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................                            12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................,.12
D. Project Rationale .................                                                                             14
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................... 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies ................................................                               14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................. 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ........................... ......... 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................ 16
E. Summary Project Analyses ........................................ .                                     ...... 17
1. Economic ................................................                                            17
2. Financial ........                                                                                   18
3. Technical ........                                                                                   18
4. Institutional ........                                                                               18
5. Social ........ 18
6. Environmental assessment ......................                                                      18
7. Participatory approach ......................                                                        19
F. Sustainability and Risks                           ............................ 19
1. Sustainability ............................                                                          19
2. Critical risks ............................                                                         20
3. Possible controversial aspects   ............................ 21



G. Main Loan Conditions ................................                   21
1. Disbursement and other conditions ................................  21
H. Readiness for Implementation         ..                 .............................. 22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies        ..                 .............................. 22
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .23
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description .27
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .36
Annex 4.  Financial Summary .38
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .39
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .40
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review . 41
Table C. Procurement Plan .44
Table D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .48
Annex 6.  Financial Management .49
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .54
Annex 8.   Documents in Project File .55
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits .56
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .57



UZBEKISTAN
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN (FIBL)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
ECCOI
Date April 20, 1999                                       Team Leader Itzhak Goldberg
Country Director Ishrat Husain                             Sector Director/Leader: Lajos Bokros/Yasuo Izumi
ProjectlD- UZ-PE-9131      Sector: FSD                    Program Objective Category:
LendinglInstrument: TA                                    Program of Targeted Intervention:     I  Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data                   [x] Loan          1  Credit        [i Guarantee        I] Other tSpecifyl
Amount (US$m/SDRm) US$25 0
Proposed terms.                             [    Multicurrency       [X] Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years)' 5             [    Standard Variable    [   Fixed             [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity' 20
Commitmnent fee: 0 75 percent
Front End Fee: 1.0 percent
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                  Local               Foreign              Total
Government                                                        2 3                  2.6                 4 9
IBRD                                                              12                   23 8               25 0
Total         3 5                  26 4                29.9
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M)                       2000        2001       2002     2003    2004
Annual                    3 7          6 2      6.5      5 3     3 3
Cumulative                    3 7         9 9      16.4    21 7    25.0
Borrower Republic of Uzbekistan
Guarantor Not Applicable
Responsible agencies Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Cabinet of Ministers (COM)
Project implementation period: 5 years  Expected effectiveness date' August 1, 1999   Expected closing date: June 30, 2004



-2-
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Anne-x 1):
*  Objective: Improve the corporate governance and management capacitv of the commercial banks in
preparation for privatization over the medium tern.
Indicators:  (i) Short-term:  improvements in the bank capacity, including strategic planning,
organizational structure; information technology and accounting; and credit analysis procedures; (ii)
Medium-term: increase in commercial lending to the private sector; and (iii) Long-run: attracting
foreign banks to participate in the privatization of selected Uzbek banks.
*  Objective: Increase competition between commercial banks and boost efficiency and innovation of
banking system.
Indicators: reduced market concentration; decreased sectoral segmentation of existing banks; increased
corporate borrowing; and better customer service and introduction of new financial products.
*  Objective: Improve prudential regulations and strengthen the supervision capacity of the Central Bank
of Uzbekistan (CBU), including better reporting capacity by the commercial banks.
Indicators: Stronger and more transparent internal and external reporting in commercial banks to
facilitate supervision by the CBU, particularly for the purposes of the CBU's on-site and off- site
audits; higher level of skills and better organization of the Supervision Department of the CBU.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17376 UZ, discussed by the Board on March 10, 1998.
The CAS envisages three possible scenarios. A high case would include an International Monetary Fund
(IMF) program combined with a program of structural reform and liberalization supported by World Bank
policy adjustment loans. Under the current intermediate scenario, the Bank supports institutional building
in the agricultural, enterprise and financial sectors and provides investment loans in health, the social sector
and infrastructure.
Background: An IMF stand-by program, signed in December 1995, went off-track in November 1996
when the Government of Uzbekistan (GOU) introduced multiple currency practices and foreign exchange
rationing. The Bank's Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL) and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) have
been on hold since that time; the ERL has been ready for presentation to the Board in November 1996. In
1997, a Financial Sector Review (FSR) provided an analysis of the sector and a strategy for refonnr.
Preparation of the FSAL continued after 1996, financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of $1.2
million: advisory work under the PPF prepared the basis for a legal and regulatory framework for the
banking sector. The proposed FIBL would, inter alia, support the implementation of the PPF's
recommendations.
The CAS is designed to address the Government's concerns about the possible negative consequences of
reforms by demonstrating the benefits and results of policy and institutional reforms in the context of pilot
investment operations, and through continuing dialogue. The Bank believes that the success of pilot
operations, backed by intensified dialogue and technical assistance to build the capacity for economic
management, will demonstrate the benefits of reform and thereby provide a solid basis for replicating these
reforms throughout the economy.
In the intermediate CAS scenario, a series of pilot operations would provide the main vehicle for delivering
The World Bank, 1997, Uzbekistan: Creating Financial Markets-A Review of the Financial Sector, Report No.
15430-UZ



- 3 -
In the intermediate CAS scenario, a series of pilot operations would provide the main vehicle for
delivering assistance to the Government. These operations would demonstrate the benefits of the key
structural reforms (i.e., agricultural restructuring and privatization), and support institutional
development, which would induce the Government to replicate these changes across the economy. The
Enterprise Institution Building Loan (EIBL), approved by the Board in June 1998, together with the FIBL
are key components of this scenario: the EIBL extends the gradual approach to privatization taken under
the Privatization Investment Funds program; supports a new case-by-case privatization program for large
strategic enterprises as the cornerstone for further industrial enterprise restructuring; and provides
institution building in the enterprise and financial sector.
Building on reforms under the EIBL, the proposed FIBL is designed to correspond with the intermediate
CAS scenario by supporting the GOU's cautious and gradual approach to financial sector reform through
creation of an adequate legal and regulatory framework for financial intermediation, and development of
the sector's technical and institutional capacity. The key objective is to boost the operational autonomy,
increase the level of competition, and improve the financial and management capacity of Uzbekistan's
banking sector.  The anticipated results of this strengthening are that the banks will become an
independent constituency for banking sector reform, they will increase lending to the private sector over
the medium term (another important potential reform constituency), and will foster more competition
within the banking sector.
At the same time, FIBL's goals are consistent with preparations for the high case CAS scenario. In July
1998, the President issued a decree in which he announced his intention to achieve current account
convertibility by 2000, according to a graduated schedule. It was indicated that the World Bank's
financial sector program was a priority for Uzbekistan, specifically because of the GOU's desire for the
banking sector to be fully prepared for currency convertibility. The GOU requested that the Bank assist
in avoiding the problems experienced elsewhere in the Former Soviet Union (FSU) as a result of
economic liberalization. The PPF began this process - which is an ongoing one - by working with the
central bank to strengthen the legal and regulatory environment for banking supervision. As Russia
demonstrated by default, strong and effective supervision is a key element of a stable banking system;
this requires adequate disclosure capacity of the commercial banks as well as strengthening of the
regulatory/supervisory framework. Improved corporate governance and supervision are essential to
lower the risk that bank managers, following liberalization, be subject to increased moral hazard, which
would likely lead to de-capitalizing of the banks at the expense of shareholders and individual depositors.
The International Finance Corporation's (IFC's) overall strategy for Uzbekistan is to foster private sector
development by assisting SMEs, the financial sector, and the enabling business environment. IFC has
followed an integrated approach in Uzbekistan by: (i) including the country under the Extended Reach
program providing access to the Small Enterprise Fund to finance SMEs; (ii) developing financial
intermediaries, such as leasing companies, to extend credit to SMEs; (iii) working closely with the World
Bank in defining technical assistance required for the privatization and development of the financial
sector; (iv) exploring smaller ancillary projects attached to large foreign investments; and, (v) providing,
togetlher with the World Bank Institute, management and accounting training for local entrepreneurs
wlhile working to attract private sector investment in this area.
In line with this strategy, IFC's proposed credit lines, which will be submitted to the Board in this year,
have two important objectives. In the short to medium term, they will address the scarcity of term
finance in Uzbekistan to privatized and newly created private SMEs. The medium to long term objective
is to foster the development of the financial sector through a program aimed at strengthening the financial
resources and technical expertise of state owned banks, which the government intends to privatize, as
well as private banks in the country, so that over time they can become effective and efficient conduits
for channeling term financing to the private sector.



- 4 -
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
According to the recently completed Economic Report2, Uzbekistan's financial sector depth, as measured
by M2/GDP, reached only 16.6 percent in 1997, well below that, for instance, of Poland (40 percent).
Total financial intermediation (Domestic Credit/GDP) was 25.2 percent in that year. Withiln the FSU, for
example, Ukraine's ratio was lower, at 19 percent. The foreign exchange controls, discussed above,
serve as a critical constraint oni development of Uzbekistan's financial sector. Four additional factors
constraining financial intermediation are discussed below:
A. Corporate Governance and State Ownership
The state dominates the ownership structure of Uzbekistan's banking system. Three of the five largest
banks, representing approximately 65 percent of banking system assets, are 100 percent owned by the
state or state owned enterprises. In addition, a number of the other banks, including spin-offs from the
state owned banks, still retain significant state ownership, either directly by the state or through quasi
state structures such as production associations. In addition to direct ownership, the state gains influence
via directed lending under the National Investment Plan (NIP). Typically funded by the Central Bank
and/or guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Bank lending under the NIP is still used for state-
sponsored investment projects.
The President's Decree "On Measures to Improve the Operation of Joint Stock Commercial Banks" of
October 2, 1998 requires the state's share in such banks to be reduced and not to exceed 50 percent after
July 1, 1999. The obvious but critical obstacle to properly implementing this Decree in the designated
timeframe is the lack of foreign or new local capital to buy the shares of the banks. This could pressure
banks to comply with the decree in ways that could actually weaken corporate governance. The decree
specifically names "banks' clients" among the proposed investors. This conflicts with prudential banking
standards because it increases the risk that shareholders may unduly influence bank-lending activities via
related party lending. Experience in other countries confirms that Central Bank restrictions on related
party lending are easily circumvented, and require special diligence in bank supervision. Encouraging
clients to buy shares will complicate this further.
In the Aide Memoire of December 20, 1998, the Appraisal Mission stressed the extreme importance of
ensuring that banks are governed by financial institutions and not industrial or trade companies. The
potential for moral hazard would be very large if a non-financial client of a bank were to acquire a
controlling shareholding in the bank. An even worse scenario may arise when an enterprise owns a
significant stake in a bank and the bank acquires shares in the same enterprise. The experience of Russia
in 1998, of Korea in 1997 and of Mexico in 1995 shows that permitting such ownership structures might
lead to bank crisis and collapse in both the industrial and financial sector. The GOU has responded to
this concern in a Cabinet of Ministers (COM) Resolution dated January 15, 1999 (see below).
B.  Market Concentration and Segmentation.
Uzbekistan's banking system is characterized by an extreme degree of market concentration: the National
Bank of Uzbekistan (NBU) accounts for 56 percent of banking system assets and has equity stakes in
several smaller institutions. The nearest rival, the state-owned cotton bank Pakhta, accounts for 17
2 This section draws heavily on the comprehensive review in Chapter 4 of Structural Policy Review Economic
Report, February 1999.



- 5 -
percent of total assets. The leading five banks in Uzbekistan together account for almost 90 percent of
the banking assets. In comparison, the share of the five largest banks is 60 percent in the Czech and
Slovak Republics and 50 percent in Russia.
In addition, the requirement, until recently, that domestic companies maintain settlement accounts at only
one bank has acted to preserve NBU's position. NBU's advantage in international transactions is being
extended into domestic commerce, as NBU develops a domestic branch network. As a result of its
market power, regulations constraining competition, and relative sophistication, NBU has become a
dominanit force in the financial system.
Banking segmentation has been a serious problem in the early period following independence, (see the
1997 FSR) but this constraint is being eased as the sectoral banks attempt to become universal banks.
The important examples are Asaka Bank, which has undertaken to diversify away from the automotive
sector and ZhilsberBank, whiclh was specialized in construction.
C.  Prudential Regulations and Banking Supervision
Following the work of the PPF and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
teams, a comprehensive set of prudential regulations for the banking system is now in place. These are
based on the legislation on financial activities enacted since 1995, including the laws on banks and
banking, the central bank, collateral, and the chart of accounts for commercial banks introduced with the
assistance of the Bank, through the IBTA loan. Key elements are:
Capital. The capital adequacy ratio is set at 10 percent, which is higher than the Basle standard
ratio of 8 percent of capital to total risk-weighted assets. In addition, the minimum capital
requirement for joint-stock banks has recently been raised to US$2.5 million in Tashkent, $1.25
million elsewhere; $5 million for banks with foreign participation.
Exposure Limits. Based oni the PPF's recommendations, exposure limits were set: to a single
client - 15 percent (shares and bonds, excluding GKOs out of Tier I capital); to all issuers
combined, 50 percent for investment and 25 percent for trading.
Loan Classification. The rules for classifying loanis were introduced in 1996 and revised in
1998 in greater conformity with International Accounting Standards. Nevertheless, a number of
issues remain unresolved. Among these are: allowing banks to deduct loan loss provisions from
the tax base and correctly assessing the large amounts of government-guaranteed loans to ailing
state-owned enterprises in the loan portfolios of some commercial banks. This is a major concern
from the system stability point of view and from that of a potential strategic investor: these
guarantees reflect a contingent liability of the GOU which in case of crisis will either impose a
burden on the budget or, if the guarantees are not honored, a collapse of the banks.
Deposit Insurance, A draft law on deposit insurance is currently under consideration by the
Government. The World Bank has expressed the concern (on July 9, 1998 and on October 31,
1998) that implementation of a deposit insurance scheme, while ultimately a reasonable goal, is
premature at this time. In order to minimize the risk of moral hazard and reduce the potential for
negative systemic impact, a number of policy issues need to be resolved prior to creation of a
deposit insurance scheme, including:  stabilization of the banking industry, passage of a
comprehensive bank-bankruptcy code, and strengthening of the Central Bank's ability to
supervise the banking system and take appropriate actions regarding problem institutions.



- 6 -
D.    Financial Repression/Liberalization:
Banking Sector and Tax Administration. Uzbekistan's banking system currently plays a role in both
tax enforcement and collection. A key element of this system is the distinction between cash and non-
cash transactions. Cash withdrawals by enterprises are permitted only for purposes of payment of wages,
pensions, and travel expenses. The Bank's views the distinction between cash and non-cash continues as
the single most important constraint on the intermediation offinancialflows, inhibiting the development
of the financial sector, and encouraging a large informal sector and hard currency curb market. The
GOU position is that maintaining this system is essential to preventing the collapse of tax collection
which has afflicted many of the FSU countries, particularly Russia.
Single Account Restriction. Until recently, enterprises (other than joint ventures) have been allowed to
maintain only one settlement account. This meant that an enterprise was able to conduct business witlh
only one bank at a time. By creating a prohibitively high switching cost for bank clients, this arrangement
increased the cost of doing business and severely curtailed inter-bank competition. As a result, banks had
little incentive to serve their clients well or to attract new customers. In January 1999, the Government
announced the progressive elimination of this restriction by June 1, 2000. The interest rate regime is
administered by the CBU rather than market-determined. While the CBU sets the refinance rate,
the rate does not appear to be closely linked with other interest rates. Real interest rates for
1996-97 have been negative and suggest significant financial repression.
1996         1997
A. 3-month T-Bill Rate (% yield,     42.9         29.3
December issue)3
B. Inflation (% change, year-end)4   64.0         50.0
C. Real Interest Rate (A-B)          -21.1        -20.7
Comparable data for average lending and borrowing rates is not available for the calculation of interest
rate spreads though these spreads are likely to be high reflecting, among other factors, the lack of
competition in the banking sector, and the inordinately high reserve requirement.
Government Strategy:
Bank Governance and Privatization: The President's Decree UP-2084 "On Measures oni Improvement
of the Activity of Joint-Stock Commercial Banks" issued on October 2, 1998 is an indication of the
Government's commitment to strengthening the banking industry. There is a widespread agreement
within the GOU and the commercial banks about the desirability of attracting foreign strategic investors
to Uzbek banks in order to strengthen skills, governance and competition.
Foreign Strategic Investors. The GOU accepts the Bank's view that the most advantageous solution to
the bank governance problem is attracting a foreign bank as a strategic investor; the best example of the
success of this approach is Hungary. COM Resolution 477 of November 17, 1998 allows the sale of 40
percent of the shares of NBU and COM Resolution of January 15, 1999 allows the sale of an unspecified
stake in the shares of Asaka Bank.
CBU refinance rate for 1997 was 40 percent (Source: CBU).
4 Source: IMF



- 7 -
In order to attract strategic foreign investors to Uzbek banks, several steps need to be taken. First,
"clean" or unqualified audits must be obtained for each bank to be sold. However, in certain cases, the
secrecy of bank credit documentation has made it impossible for international auditors to issue a "clean"
opinion on the bank's financial statements. Any bank receiving a qualified opinion in 1998 or 1999
would not be able to attract a reputable, strategic international investor. It has been agreed that the COM
would take all steps necessary that the 1998 reports will not be qualified due to "secrecy" restrictions
imposed on the auditors.
Ownership of banks by non-financial enterprises: As mentioned in Section 2-A above, theAide Memoire
of the Appraisal Mission recommends that "cross and circular ownership be prohibited and that a single
non-financial company would not be allowed to hold more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of a
bank." Addressing the Bank's recommendations, Article 3 of the January 15 COM resolution says:
"From January 1, 2000 share of one share-holder in the statutory capital of a commercial bank cannot
exceed 20 percent, from January 1, 2001 - 13 percent and from January 1, 2002 - 7 percent of the total
volume of the statutory capital (except state share, as well as banks with participation of foreign capital
and private banks). From January 1, 1999 participation of the bank in the statutory capital of a newly
registered bank is not acceptable, except cases when banks with foreign capital and bank affiliations are
established. Before January 1, 2001 commercial banks must sell shares they currently own in the
statutory capitals of other banks". The latter addresses the concerns regarding circular and cross-
ownership while the limitations on the stake of a single shareholder in a bank are introduced gradually,
setting the limit at 7 percent.
Bank Restructuring. The process of bank restructuring-which has been awaiting the development of
adequate legal and regulatory frameworks and the development of institutional capacity-has just begun
in Uzbekistan. Some movement in this direction may follow the October 2, 1998 Presidential Decrees
calling for the restructuring of the banks' loan portfolios, including loans whose repayments have been
delayed in accordance with Government decisions. Bank restructuring needs to be handled carefully so
as not to create the moral hazard problem and a drain on budgetary resources.5
In addition, Government policy toward directed credits is critical. Past credits need to be restructured or
otherwise addressed with assistance of the Government. Future loans must be made only on the basis of
the issuing bank's market-based credit evaluation. The GOU stated that there would be no pressures on
banks to extend new loans in 1999, which are not considered commercially creditworthy by the bank's
management. Promstroi management assures us that all new loans are given on a commercial basis and
that no new loans to the large loss-making Tapoich Aircraft Company will be extended in 1999. The
proposed covenants of the loan address the use of the Selected Banks (see Section 3 below) as a conduit
of directed credits.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will support the development of financial system infrastructure through five main
components:
*  Intensive Technical Assistance to Selected Banks (Component 1): channeling of intensive
support to a select group of medium-sized and smaller banks with the best prospects for
commercial viability;
*  Sector-wide Technical Assistance (Component 2): providing support to all banks via group
training and individualized advisory work in areas including automated credit analysis;
The World Bank, 1997, Uzbekistan: Creating Financial Markets-A Review of the Financial Sector, Report No.
15430-UZ provides detailed proposals for bank restructuring.



- 8 -
internal auditing, implementation of International Accounting Standards (IAS), training to
assist in implementation of management information systems (MIS) development under
Component 4, and financing of 1999 and 2000 external audits conducted under IAS;
*  Regulatory/Supervisory Capacity Building (Component 3): strengthening legal/regulatory
framework and supervisory capacity of CBU - building on support provided under PPF and
by other donors;
*  Financial Sector Information System - FSIS (Component 4):  strengthening of bank
Management Information Systems (MIS), upgrading the payment system; and improved
performance of telecommunications in support of MIS and payment systems;
*  Bank Privatization and Restructuring (Component 5): assistance for restructuring of non-
performing assets of commercial banks and sale to strategic investors.
The project contributes to three out of the four sector policy issues described above: lack of private
governance, lack of competition, and weak regulatory and supervisory environment. Although the
project does not directly address financial repression (except through the important step of relaxing the
restriction on multiple bank accounts), it will support institutional development and micro-level reforms,
which may contribute to increasing the Government's confidence in proceeding with deeper structural
reforms.
The FIBL is also intended to supplement the World Bank's sister project, the Enterprise Institution
Building Loan (EIBL). A healthy banking sector directly contributes to success in building the private
enterprise sector. One key objective of the FIBL is to strengthen credit risk management in banks, which
should reassure the banks that lending to the private sector can be managed and profitable. Stronger
credit practices are also necessary to attract foreign credit lines. IFC has worked closely with the FIBL
team to identify banks that can implement proper lending practices.
Governance and Management. In general, the key to sustainable change in governance and management
is privatization: sale of a controlling stake to a financial institution with the capacity to restructure the
bank. However, given the current macroeconomic environment as well as some long-term "objective"
obstacles, one cannot look to foreign investment as a realistic solution in the short term. The Team
believes that the project includes a number of provisions to support increased independence and
improved management of the banking sector:
The Technical Assistance to Selected Banks component will strengthen a select group of
medium-sized and smaller banks with the best prospects for independent commercially based
operation.  The banks included in the program  are:  Asaka Bank, UzPromstoiBank,
ZhilsberBank, UzDaewoo Bank, Andijan Bank and Ipak Yuli. These banks were selected on
the basis of their financial condition (e.g., as indicated by a rating of "3" or better, in the
CBU/USAID supervision on-site audits), commitment to operation as private commercial
bank, prospects of privatization and a demonstrated commitment to implementation of TA
program. This intensive assistance would focus on bank strategy and planning; treasury and
credit risk management; and accounting, auditing and management information systems.
This component is also expected to increase attractiveness of participants to strategic
international investors, possibly with the participation of IFC, EBRD, and Central Asian
American Enterprise Fund;
The Sector-wide Technical Assistance component provides similar support to all banks, with
the aim of strengthening commercial viability and independent operation. Although the most
promising banks are covered in component 1, this component is intended to meet demands
from other institutions which arise from a demonstration effect of the intensive TA program
while also spreading costs via training of interest to all banks;



-9-
The Financial Sector Information System (FSIS) component will build the capacity of banks
to assess risk and manage operations through strengthening of MIS. First, the systems
upgrading will strengthen management of liquidity and risk within commercial banks - thus
increasing their ability for independent, technically competent administration. Second, the
payment system reform to undertake intra-bank c'.;aring and settlement on a net basis
manage by each bank's head office eliminates direct Central Bank involvement in this core
function of commercial banks. Currently each transaction is settled in central bank accounts
on a gross basis for each bank branch, increasing potential for government interference while
significantly reducing efficiency and increasing liquidity costs.  Finally, the proposed
investment will accommodate a modest growth in volume of transactions in relation to the
current low levels. As activity grows, the Government ability to micromanage the system
(feasible only with conditions of light activity) will progressively diminish. By providing
payment system infrastructure and network technology, Component 4 will also allow banks
to consolidate their daily financial statements and maintain a single settlement account with
the Central Bank.6 This will permit improved liquidity management whereby a bank can
make intra-bank transfers from branches with excess funds to branches where there is excess
loan demand. In addition, the component will introduce the concept of inter-bank netting for
low value transactions, thus permitting banks to reduce the balances they currently maintain
for payments.
The Bank Privatization and Restructuring Component will deal with the design of work-out
modalities of non-performing assets resulting from previous directed lending programs of the
Government, so as to allow managers to focus on the current problems of new credit
appraisal and risk-management. The component will also, support the privatization of
selected institutions.
Competition
The project aims to strengthen viable institutions, which could become effective competitors to the
dominant bank - and to each other. Many of the samne impacts cited under state ownership and influence,
above, apply equally to this issue. TA to Selected Banks (Component 1) would channel intensive
upgrading to banks with a high degree of demonstrated commercial viability. Design of Component 2
(Sector-wide TA) and Component 4 (FSIS) will channel support to medium and smaller-sized banks,
thereby serving to increase competition.
Following the Aide Memoire of the Appraisal Mission submitted to the GOU on December 20, 1998, a
COM Resolution issued on January 15, 1999 includes Article 6 as follows: "Juridical persons, located on
the territory of the Republic are to be rendered the right to open accounts in several banks, with
obligatory informing of the taxing agencies at the tax payment departnent:
Enterprises with a staff of more that 1,000 people - from June 1, 1999;
Enterprises with staff of more than 200 people - from December 1, 1999;
Otherjuridical persons - from June 1, 2000.
The removal of the restriction is important: Enterprises will then be able to shop for banking services
without having to move all accounts and other business simultaneously. Component 4 (Financial Sector
Information System) directly supports this important reform by utilizing a unique identification number
6 Presently, each branch maintains its own account with the Central Bank branch in its area. Thus, excessive
liquidity is maintained.



- 10-
for each firm, thereby allowing the collection of tax data across multip]e bank accounts. The gradual
removal by size of enterprise is intended to allow the commercial banks and the CBU to develop credit
information facilities which will prevent clients with debts in one bank to apply for credit in another
without proper information exchange among banks. It is the CBU's view that the information problem is
more complicated for smaller enterprises.
Regulatory Framework and Supervision.
As noted above, the Uzbek legal/regulatory framework and supervision in the banking sector have been
strengthened in recent years but remain weak. The project, therefore, includes a component of
institutional strengthening for the CBU precisely in these areas, building on previous efforts under the
PPF, USAID and TACIS. A detailed matrix of the implementation status of the PPF's recommendations
is available in the Project Files. Component 2 will include courses on the legal aspects of banking and
finance and provide for training for lawyers from various government departments and agencies.
Training will include the following topics: (i) rules regarding entry and authorization of banks and
banking activities; (ii) standards and requirements for capital adequacy, liquidity and solvency of banks;
(iii) prudential regulation of banking activities and supervision of banks; (iv) depositor protection
regulations; (v) monetary and foreign exchange regulation; (v) trade and investment regulation; and (vi)
rules regarding restructuring and exit of banks.
Liberalization:
At the request of the GOU, the FIBL will provide a Foreign Exchange Adviser under Component 3 who
will be responsible for implementing in CBU and the commercial banks of adequate procedures related to
foreign exchange (FX) trading and risk management. The primary focus will be on the skills required by
CBU officials and commercial banks in a market-determined foreign-currency regime where the CBU
intervenes by buying and selling currency. Training will be provided, inter alia, by organizing computer-
based simulated FX trading.



- Ii -
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Components                Category      Cost,     % of      Bank-
(US$)     Total   financing
(UJS$)
1. Institution Building - Selected Banks  Institutional  3,120,000    10.4   2,920,000
Strengthening
2. Institution Building - Sector Wide    Institutional  5,112,000    17.1   4,512,000
Strengthening
Intertnal Audit (in house & center)
Credit Analysis (programs & training)
Bank Accounting
Management Information System
1999 and 2000 IAS Audits banks
3. Institution Building - CBU           Policy/     848,000     2.8     648,000
Institutional
Strength eniing
4. Financial Sector Information Systems  Institutional  10,791,000   36.0   7,711,000
Strengthening
Payment System
MIS System
Telecommunication Network
5. Bank Privatization and               Policy/    4,768,000    15.9   4,568,000
Restructuring                         Institutional
Strengthening
Legal advisory support
Restructuring/privatization support
6. Project Implementation Unit        Institutional  2,195,000    7.3    1,745,000
Strengthening
Total (Base Cost)                                  26,834,000   89.5   22,104,000
Contingencies                                      1,682,000    5.6    1,446,000
PPF                                                1,200,000    4.0    1,200,000
Fee                                                  250,000    0.8       250,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST2                                29,966,000   100.0  25,000,000
'Salaries based on experience under PPF and EIBL. US$18,000 monthly salary, including US$2,000 in
expenses.
2The counterpart contribution is 16.6 percent of the total project cost. See Annex 3 for breakdown by
component.



- 12-
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project aims to:
(i)    Reduce systemic risk via strengthening bank management, introduction of tight
restrictions on ownership of banks by industrial groups, improving prudential regulation
and supervision, and improvement of the payment system;
(ii)   Increase independence of banking sector from state control and ownership through
strengthening bank commercial viability and attractiveness to strategic foreign investors,
improving efficiency via investment in MIS and telecommunications, and facilitating
restructuring of non-performing debts;
(iii)   Promote competition and reduce market concentration by boosting capacity of viable
medium and smaller banks, remove important regulatory constraints to competition
(multiple bank accounts), and improving efficiency of payments system - particularly for
medium-sized banks;
(iv)   Improve the legal/regulatory framework for banking and development of a supervisory
capacity in the CBU via implementation of recommended actions under PPF and
extension of TA program undertaken by other donors.
The net intended effect of the project is to help create a stable, commercially-oriented banking sector,
which takes on an increasing role in the finance of private commercial activity over the medium term.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
*  Reduced systemic risk;
?  Improved corporate governance of banking sector via strategic foreign investors and increased
independence from Government;
*  Strengthened ability of banks to channel savings (foreign and domestic) to productive investment
opportunities;
*  Greater operational efficiency of banks as a result of increased competition and investment in
institutional strengthening;
*  Increased transparency and bank supervision through improved auditing procedures;
Target Population
* Owners, managers, and employees of participating banks;
*  Clients of participating banks, including private firms and consumers;
*  Local professional groups, including auditors and accountants;
*  Central Bank professional staff.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall Project Structure. Due to the clarification of the implementation arrangements during
negotiations, signing of a Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement (PISLA) between the
Borrower and the CBU (as acceptable to Bank) was incorporated as a condition of effectiveness. A
Supervisory Board, consisting of representatives of CBU, MOF, and COM, will be encharged with



- 13 -
oversight of all project activities. Under the Supervisory Board, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will
be encharged with project management and coordination of the activities under each of the loan
components. The PIU will be supervised and controlled by the Supervisory Board. Created for
implementation of the PPF, the PIU will be strengthened in the following areas in order to execute the
Project: Project Management, Procurement, and Financial Management/Information Systems. Foreign
resident advisors would be hired under each of the three areas. The PIU would be responsible for
management of the two Special Accounts (SA) corresponding to activities of CBU and MOF,
respectively, procurement of goods and hiring of consultants, disbursement, coordination of consultants,
and overall financial management. The organizational structure of the PIU will be as follows:
The PIU will hire a Project Management Consulting (PMC) firm which will operate under the supervision
of the Director General. The PMC will provide the PIU with specialists in the various fields mentioned
above as well as train local staff who will serve as counterparts to the international experts. The PMC
will coordinate the implementation of the loan components and, together with the Director General,
maintain the policy dialogue with the GOU regarding banking sector reform issues, including those
highlighted by the PPF. It will also assist the PIU in capacity building. There will also be a team of long-
term foreign banking experts resident in the pilot banks. The GOU will provide an in-kind contribution to
the PIU in the form of adequate premises at the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU). Required capital
investment (office space, furniture, computers office equipment, and vehicles) will be funded from the
FIBL, according to a budget jointly agreed between the Bank and the GOU.
Finance, Accounting, and Auditing Arrangements. The PIU will maintain all project accounts. The
Project Management Consulting (PMC) firm will supply a foreign resident consultant to serve as
financial manager who will prepare a financial management plan for the project (including full
description of procedures and staff responsibilities), and control all expenditures made against the loan.
The financial management plan will be reviewed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Prior
to loan effectiveness, the auditor will offer an opinion stating that the financial management plan
conforms to the Bank guidelines as expressed in OP and BP 10.02. A Financial Management Specialist
of the World Bank will review the financial management plan for compliance with Bank requirements
prior to effectiveness. The PIU project accounts will be audited on an annual basis in accordance with
international standards as acceptable to the Bank. This audit will be financed as incremental operating
expenses from the proceeds of the loan.
Reporting Arrangements. Semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the PIU. The format of the
reports will be mutually agreed upon prior to the first submission six months after project effectiveness.
Implementation Completion Report. The PIU will prepare, in conjunction with the Bank, an ICR upon
completion of the project, and not later than six months after final distribution of Loan proceeds.
Included in the ICR will be an assessment of the execution and initial operation of the project, costs and
benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, the Bank, and other agencies
involved in the Project in their respective obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out in the
following areas: (a) procurement of goods and services; (b) financial management and use of project
resources; and (c) progress towards project objectives. The evaluation will be made with reference to the
key Performance Indicators (to be agreed at Negotiations), and project outcomes will be evaluated in
terms of improvements in the pilot banks, and the impact of this improvement on the banking sector as a
whole.



- 14-
Procurement Arrangement. The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components
will be procured in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The project activities not
financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations of the Borrower. The
project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods, schedules including capability of the
implementing agency, are presented in Annex 5.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternative to proceeding with this project at the current time would be to delay the activities
until agreement is reached regarding a full structural adjustment program to address macroeconomic
distortions described above (section B.1).
Although it is evident that progress under the proposed project may be inhibited by the need for
macroeconomic policy reform, there are strong reasons for proceeding under current conditions. First,
the Government has indicated a growing receptiveness to reform. In anticipation of currency reforms
planned for 2000, the Government has announced a series of initiatives to liberalize and privatize the
financial sector. The proposed project would serve to strengthen and deepen the existing dialogue in
advance of expected structural reforms. The FIBL would thereby facilitate a dialogue on microeconomic
issues with potential positive implications for the stability of the financial system.
A major goal of the proposed FfBL is to create momentum for competition and a new constituency for
economic reform outside of the Government. The creation of additional reform lobbies is a potentially
promising means of accelerating the reform process in Uzbekistan and thereby addressing issues that are
of greatest concern to the Bank.
The proposed FIBL will also play an important role in complementing reforms already begun in the
enterprise sector under the Enterprise Institution Building Project or EIBL (Loan 4345-UZ), thus
supporting Uzbekistan's newly emerging private sector. In addition, the project would build upon
previous financial sector technical assistance initiatives and provide a vehicle for implementing their
recommendations.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                 Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Case-by-Case Privatization,    Uzbekistan EIBL (UZ-PE-        S               S
Post-Privatization Advisory    55159)
Services, Capital Markets
Development
IFC SME Credit Lines        IFC 8700, 8701                  N/A              N/A
Technical Assistance to banks, Poland FIDL (PL-PE-8585)       S               HS
partnering
Technical Assistance to banks, Hungary FSMP (HU-PE-           S                S
modernization               8478)



- 15-
Privatization of banks through  Hungary EFSAL (HU-PE-           S                S
foreign investment           8498)
Other development agencies
Credit Lines and technical   EBRD                        N/A              N/A
assistance to banks
Technical assistance in      USAID                       N/A              N/A
accounting standards, banking
regulation/supervision
Technical assistance to banks,  TACIS                    N/A              N/A
and Privatization Investment
Fund (PIF) program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
* Financial sector liberalization in other CIS countries was undertaken with insufficient attention to
institution- and capacity-building, with severe implications for systemic stability and risk. The aim in
Uzbekistan is to begin this process during early stages of reform.
- A high degree of ownership in the Government and participating banks is the most critical success
factor in TA operations. The Government has showed Strong indications of ownership; provisions
for cost recovery and participation in tailoring of technical assistance help assure buy-in of banks.
*  Twinning arrangements, which link local and foreign banks, have shown to be effective only when a
strong incentive for an ongoing business relationship between the banks is in place. Given the
current business climate in Uzbekistan, this incentive was considered to be weak, and the option of
twinning was rejected.
e  Strong institution-building elements and hands-on assistance must accompany any TA in the form of
equipment or computerization in order to maximize the utility of the procured goods.
* Intensive supervision by the World Bank is necessary, particularly at the early stages of
implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitmient and ownership:
The Government has demonstrated a strong commitment to implementation of the proposed project.
Given the financial crisis experienced elsewhere in the region and the country's own macroeconomic
situation, the Government has announced intentions to accelerate a number of key micro-level reforms.
A Presidential decree of July 1998 announced the Government's intention to achieve current account
convertibility by 2000. In September the GOU indicated that Bank assistance for financial sector reform
was a top priority in light of preparations for currency convertibility. Subsequently, in October a decree
was issued requiring that state participation in all banks be reduced to a maximum of 50 percent by July
1, 1999. In December 1998, the President requested further expansion of Bank assistance in restructuring
the financial sector. Finally, in January 1999, a resolution was issued to address a variety of financial
sector reforms recommended by the Bank, including tighter controls on bank ownership and
capitalization as well as a progressive relaxation of the restriction on multiple bank accounts.
Experience under ongoing technical assistance programs (PPF, TACIS, and USAID) gives evidence of
the Government's support for financial sector development. These projects have sponsored long-term
resident advisers in the Central Bank of Uzbekistan working in the areas of bank supervision, accounting
reform and legal reform. The GOU has also been highly proactive in the design of the proposed FIBL



- 16 -
and designated a Vice-Chairman of the CBU as a counterpart of the FIBL Team. A Senior Foreign
Adviser, financed by a PHRD grant, is based in the CBU, assisted by a local lawyer, and facilitates the
dialogue between the CBU and the FIBL Team. Another foreign adviser is based in UzPromstroibank
advising its management on re-organization of the credit function. Both advisers have been in the field
for six months and created close contacts with bank managers and CBU personnel.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has gained considerable experience in institutional building in the enterprise sectors: a
corollary operation the EIBL (a $28 million loan) provides assistance to privatization; restructurinig of the
real sector is a pre-condition of banking sector restructuring. In the Financial Sector, the IBTA loan has
provided the initial funding for the establishing the chart of accounts for IAS in the commercial banks
(using Arthur Andersen) and the CBU and for the establislhment of the Payments System. The 1997 FSR
provided the basis for our policy dialogue since and the PPF has laid out the basis for a regulatory
framework. The FIBL will suppolt the implementation of the PPF's recommendations for the regulatory
framework and fund the corollary support for the commercial bank. The efforts of USAID support the
work at the CBU and TACIS plays a role with EDI in training of bankers.
IFC has closely coordinated the design of its credit line with the EIBL team responsible for enterprise
institution building and development of private sector SMEs, as well as the proposed FIBL. In support of
SMEs the Bank approved the above mentioned EIBL and is currently working on development of the
Social Transformationi Fund Loan (STF) which is expected to be presented to the Board in Fall 1999. The
EIBL provided funding for a Post Privatization Bureau that assists new or privatized SME enterprises in
the development of their business plans for modernization and development. The Bureau, working withl
the IFC project team, has identified a number of potential clients for funding through the credit lines and
will work closely with the Banks to facilitate access by private SMEs to term financing provided by this
project. In addition, the Bureau, through its extensive network of contacts, will provide assistance to IFC
in screening potential sub-borrowers to insure that loans are being provided to truly private sector SMEs.
The STF will provide technical assistance to at least three small private banks outside Tashkent, which
will focus on upgrading their management and credit skills and allow them to start small business term
lending to SMEs. STF will also make available a line of credit that may be accessed by the selected
banks for on lending to small SME borrowers. IFC has been coordinating with the STF project team and
may consider an investment through STF to one of the banks that will benefit from STF technical
assistance.
The IFC credit line will provide additional financial resources for the banking sector, thereby allowing it
to play a more effective role in the development of the private sector through financial intermediation. As
part of this project, IFC will mobilize trust funds as required to supplement the technical assistance that
will be provided to the participating banks through the FIBL. IFC's credit line will lead to an increase in
the number of staff at local banks who will perform project finance and credit risk aiialysis. These
banking skills will form a basis for these institutions' future ability to do further financial intermediation.
Finally, having to adhere to IFC's loan conditions will give added incentives for the selected banks to
follow prudent asset/liability management and international banking standards.
By playing this institution-building role and introducing commercial banking practices in this highly
controlled banking system, the Bank and IFC are jointly assisting the country to prepare for a more
market-based environment and for the privatization of the banking sector which has been made a priority
by the government



- 17-
The close coordination between the FIBL and IFC teams in project appraisal and design has facilitated
the development of a joint approach to provide support to SMEs and development of the banking sector.
IFC staff have participated in joint appraisal missions with the Bank for FIBL and Bank staff have
participated in the IFC appraisal of six banks that were being considered as potential conduits for a credit
line under this project. IFC has identified the technical assistance needs of Asaka Bank and three
additional banks (Promstroybank, UzDaewoo Bank and Zhilsberbank - all of which may be considered
for investment by IFC in the future) which the World Bank and the government have agreed to fund
under FIBL. Coordination was further enhanced by IFC staff serving as peer reviewer of FIBL and
World Bank staff participating in IFC's CIC consideration of this project and subsequent management
meetings regarding project design.
Both the IFC and the EBRD are cooperating with the FIBL team in the design of Component 5 to
establish bank privatization and bank non-performing assets restructuring bureaus within the Ministry of
Finance. The Bank will take the lead in the design of the privatization process, building on the
experience acquired under the case-by-case component of the EIBL, while the IFC and EBRD will play a
key role in attracting foreign investors and possibly participating in equity investment or lending.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic:
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis    [X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
An important premise of the proposed FIBL is that the selected banks will be able to take advantage of
the TA and change their behavior within a difficult economic and policy environment. The primary
shortcoming in the economic environment is the dominant role of the state and state-owned enterprises, in
particular the state's control over key variables such as the exchange rate and commodity prices. This
environment clearly prevents banks from making lending decisions on the basis of objective, market-
generated information.
While fully acknowledging this difficulty, this TA is based on the argument that risk management can be
applied within a market environment as well as within a less flexible environment. The fundamental
nature of risk analysis is the same in both environments; it entails such factors as financial statement
analysis, assessing the reliability of the financial information, cash flow projections, competition and
market analysis, and ownership and management assessment. Our review of the candidate pilot banks'
current risk analysis and risk management processes has confirmed that their current loan review
practices do not adequately take these factors into account. As a result, the pilot banks will be able to
utilize this TA both to improve their current practices and to adapt to market reforms as they take place.
In addition, the strategic planning, accounting, and auditing aspects of the TA are less constrained by
Uzbekistan's current economic environment and are essential components of market-based infrastructure.
As mentioned in Section B of the PAD, a major risk of this project is that liberalization will be delayed
and in the presence of the existing price distortions, enterprises lack the necessary signals to make proper
decisions with regard to restructuring. In general, neither an enterprise manger nor a bank's loan officer
can appraise a project if prices are distorted by the exchange rate or trade regime. However, small and
medium enterprises are relatively free to make decisions regarding the informal portion of their business:
those are small and medium enterprises which do not belong to associations, produce products which are
in high demand locally or are easily exportable to neighboring countries. In this informal economy prices
are, more or less, freely determined and based on the curb exchange rate. Needless to say that economy-
wide restructuring will be possible only when the trade regime is liberalized and the limited objective of
this project is to build institutional capacity until the trade regime is liberalized.



- 18-
Cost Effectiveness Analysis: The proposed project would channel support in the most cost-effective
means possible through maximum use of competitive bidding, as described in Annex 5. Alternatives for
provision of technical assistance, e.g. twinning arrangements, were rejected on the grounds of excessive
cost and low expected benefits based on experience elsewhere (particularly in Russia). The design of
support to the Administrative Secretariat is intended to maximize use of local consultants while
maximizing efficiency in the contracting and oversight of consultants.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
Partial cost recovery of the TA by the commercial banks to the CBU is expected. The repayment will be
in Soms, at the CBU refinance-rate, over a period of 20 years including a five-year grace period. (These
terms will apply to the three large banks: the small private banks will repay only part of the cost). The
requirement of payment for service on the part of participating banks is intended to strengthen their
ownership and commitment to the program of institutional strengthening.
Fiscal Impact: The element of subsidy to participating banks would be small, as the three larger banks
will repay at the CBU refinance interest rate and the JV bank in dollars. Furthermore, investments in
technical assistance should result in higher bank profitability and therefore increased tax revenues to the
government.
3. Technical:
The technical design of the project draws heavily on experience in implementation of financial sector
technical assistance under the PPF, as well as the experiences of other donors (USAID, TACIS). In
addition, the project makes use of experience under the Uzbekistan Enterprise Institution Building Project
approved by the Board in June 1998. Declared effective in October 1998, this project has yielded
important lessons in design of the PIU and other implementation arrangements.
4. Institutional:
The following institutions will be the target of institutional building under this project: (i) the commercial
banks; (ii) the Supervisory and IT Departments of the CBU; (iii) the Bank Privatization Bureau under the
MOF; and (iv) the Asset Resolution Agency (see component 5) under MOF. In this respect, lessons from
the implementation of the EIBL and the PPF will be applied in the FIBL. In particular, the experiences of
the Post-Privatization Restructuring and the Case-by-case Privatization Bureaus will be applied.
5. Social:
The project would foster long-term social development of Uzbekistan through improved supply and
access to credit to small enterprises and individuals. In addition, the project would serve to increase
economic activity, employment, and wages.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     []A   []B    [X] C
The project is expected to have no major environmental impact.



- 19 -
7. Participatory approach.
____________________________  Preparation  Implementation    Operation
Primary beneficiaries
Participating banks           IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL
Bank Clients                 IS                IS/CON           IS/CON/COL
Professional groups (auditors,   IS/CON/COL    IS/CON/COL        IS/CON/COL
accountants)
Central Bank                 IS/CON/COL        IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL
Other key stakeholders
Enterprise managers and      IS               IS                IS
employees
Taxpayers                                     IS                IS
Investors and savers                          IS                IS
Classified as IS (Information sharing), CON (Consultation), and/or COL (Collaboration)
This project was prepared in close consultation and collaboration with the selected commercial banks,
bank auditing professionals, and the Central Bank of Uzbekistan. It is anticipated that consultation,
collaboration, and information sharing will continue through the implementation and operational phases
of the project. Enterprise managers and employees - particularly those in the private sector, taxpayers,
investors, and savers will also benefit from the greater supply of and access to credit facilitated by the
project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of bank restructuring depends on better governance, competition and improved
supervision capacity. In the longer term the sustainability of this program can be ensured only through
participation of strategic investors in the governance of the banks. Attracting foreign investment depends
critically on macroeconomic stability and liberalization.  Thus, the prospects of the project's
sustainability in the high case CAS scenario are the highest.
In the medium-case CAS scenario, which assumes stability but no liberalization, strengthening of
independent local private actors in the financial system, along with attraction of foreign strategic
investors, might help to build a critical mass in support of continued reform.
If the economy deteriorates into a low-case scenario, with major instability in the Uzbek financial system,
short-term returns to specific bank TA investments may prove to be negative. However, the assistance
should help participating banks to emerge from the potential turmoil in a relatively strong position.
Furthermore, the economic value of training to individuals within a failed institution may not be entirely
dissipated - they would likely be able to apply knowledge gained as employees of a successor institution
or competitor.



-20 -
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                         Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
1.    Non-sustainable institution building due to   S      1.1 Demonstrated commitment
lack of incentives; lack of cooperation with               of participating banks, including
consultants and slow implementation of their advice        willingness to pay for TA if
caused by weak governance due to slow                      necessary.
privatization.                                              1.2 Eventual participation of
strategic foreign investors will
ensure sustainability.
2. Inadequate national infrastructure for    M             2. Anticipated and budgeted for
information clearing (especially communications)           within the project, based on
Bank experience in other CIS
countries
3. Supervision is extremely detailed and procedure   M     3. Simplifying reporting
oriented; bankers and bank supervisors are                 requirements in Component 4
inundated with instructions and forms.                     and training of supervisors and
bankers in Components 2 and 3.
4. Large banks are required by the GOU to lend to   H      4. Loan covenants will provide a
non-creditworthy projects or on non-commercial             trigger to control this risk for
terms.                                                     participating banks. In addition,
a major goal of the TA is to
provide the banks with the
technical expertise and
financial/political clout
necessary to be able to satisfy
the GOU's lending requirements
when necessary without
sacrificing loan portfolio quality.
5. Asian banks may be attracted
5. Strategic foreign investors cannot be identified.   S   due to proximity; multi-nationals
may invest, through a financial
subsidiary, to establish a trading
base; EBRD and IFC's
participation could provide a
political umbrella ("comfort").
Currency liberalization would
have to precede investment.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Overall Risk Rating                          S



- 21 -
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                                     Type of Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R isk_ _ _ _ _ _
Failure to implement liberalization;     G        H           Building institutional capacity
Balance of payments crisis                                     will enhance receptivity of
GOU for sequenced,
sustainable reform;
strengthening of constituency
for liberalization in banking
sector.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Disbursement Conditions:
*  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Supervisory Board, comprising representatives of the
COM, MOF, and CBU, to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the Project.
*  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Implementation Unit to assist MOF and the CBU
to carry out their respective parts of the Project, and shall entrust such functions and powers, and
provide such funds, facilities and resources thereto, including qualified and experienced staff in
adequate numbers, as may be deemed necessary by the Bank.
*  To enable the CBU to carry out its responsibilities under the Project, the Borrower shall make a part of
the proceeds of the Loan available to the CBU under a Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (PISLA) entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and the CBU, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
*  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PISLA in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PISLA or any provision
thereof.
*  The Borrower shall cause the CBU to enter into Participation Arrangements (PAs), through the PIU,
with each of the Participating Banks for providing technical assistance to them on a cost recovery basis
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following: (i) each Participating Bank
shall pay the cost of said services within 20 years, including 5 years grace period for payment; (ii) the
payment of the cost will be in the Borrower's local currency and at the CBU's refinancing rate at time
of payment; and (iii) each Participating Bank shall adopt written lending policies which shall, inter
alia, include a requirement for the concerned Participating Bank to extend credit on a commercial basis
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
* The Borrower shall cause the CBU/PIU to exercise its rights under the PAs in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and shall ensure that,
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the CBU/PIU do not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any of the PAs or any provision thereof.
*  The Borrower shall cause the CBU/PIU to select commercial banks, in consultation with the Bank, for
the provision of services under Component 2 of the Project and enter into service arrangements with
each of the selected banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
*  The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that privatization and restructuring of
Participating Banks are carried out effectively and shall ensure that the Participating Banks extend
credit only on a commercial basis in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 22 -
*  The Borrower shall ensure that COM Resolution No. 24 of January 15, 1999 on "Measures for
Further Reforning of the Banking System" remains in full force and effect until completion of the
Project and shall not impose any restrictions on the freedom of enterprises in using multiple bank
accounts.
*  The Borrower shall require commercial banks to publish financial information annually and shall
ensure strict enforcement of this requirement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Conditions of effectiveness:
*  The Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement (PISLA) between the Borrower and the
CBU will be executed and submitted to the Bank.
*  The Participation Arrangements (PAs) between the PIU (on behalf of the CBU) and at least two
Participating banks (UzPromstroy and Asaka Bank) will have been submitted to the Bank.
* An opinion from and independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, stating that the financial management
plan of the PIU conforms with the Bank guidelines will have been furnished to the Bank.
*  A Supervisory Board encharged with supervision and coordination of implementation (comprised of
representatives of the COM, MOF, and CBU) and the Project Implementation Unit will have been
established.
H: Readiness for Implementation
f ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ 1 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[ X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Itzhak Goldberg,  ogr      Leader                      Ishrat Husain, Country Director
Lajos tokros, Sector firector



- 23 -
Annex 1
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary   Key Performance   Monitoring       Critical Assumptions
Indicators        and
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS                                  (CAS Goal to Bank Mission)
Objective
"Rapid, sustainable  Economic growth  CBU, IMF,    Risk: Base-case scenario in
economic growth"     rate.            World Bank    CAS does not occur due to delay
(CAS, p. 7).                          data          in liberalization.
Project Development                                 (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                          CAS Goal)
Improve the corporate   Higher        CBU data.     Risk: capital erosion due to
governance and       credit/GDP,                    negative real interest rates;
management capacity   M2/GDP ratios in              directed lending, regulatory
of the commercial    longer term.                   regime.
banks.
Increased competition   Increased private  CBU data.  Risk: Regulatory constraints to
in banking sector    commercial                     competition are not reduced;
lending; better               political/market power of large
customer service              bank continues to impede
and introduction              competition.
of new financial
products.
Improved prudential    Improved safety   CBU data.  Risk: Independence of
regulation/supervision   and soundness of           supervision under CBU is
banking system                undermined.



-24 -
Project Outputs                                      (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
Non-sustainable institution
Improved bank         Increased        Bank annual   building due to lack of
management            profitability of    financial and   incentives; lack of cooperation
participating    audit reports.   with consultants and slow
banks,                         implementation of their advice
unqualified 1999               caused by weak governance
IAS audits. In
medium-term,
attracting foreign
banks as strategic
investors in
selected Uzbek
banks
Increased             Concentration    CBU data      Risk: banks unable to upgrade
competitiveness of    ratios,                        performance due to lack of
banks                 profitability and              profitable lending activities.
growth of banks.
Decreased
sectoral
segmentation of
existing banks.
Improved bank         Stronger and     Semi-annual   Risk: supervision continues to
regulation/supervision,  more transparent  supervision    be extremely detailed and
including improved    internal and    reports, CBU   procedure oriented; bankers and
reporting by          external reporting  data.      bank supervisors are inundated
commercial banks.     by commercial                  with instructions and forms.
banks, including
on-site and off-
site audits;
improved
organization and
skills set of
supervision
function in CBU.



- 25 -
Project Components                                   (Components to Outputs)
Risk: investment in human
1. Intensive Technical  Improved bank    Consultant  development provides benefits
Assistance to Selected   strategy/planning  reports, client  only in medium- to longer-term
Banks                 and             feedback from  due to hostile macro and sectoral
organizational    interviews/    policy environment.
structure;       questionnaires
treasury/credit
risk management;
accounting, and
auditing of
selected banks.
Build highly
skilled/
specialized
human resources
for sector
2. Sector-wide        Improved bank    Consultant    Risk: investment in human
Technical Assistance    strategy/planning  reports, client  development provides benefits
and             feedback from   only in medium- to longer-term
organizational    interviews/    due to hostile macro and sectoral
structure;       questionnaires  policy environment.
treasury/credit
risk management;
accounting,
auditing, and
training to
support MIS
management (in
conjunction with
Component 4).
3. Strengthening      Implementation   Semi-annual   Risk: institutional strengthening
regulatory/supervisory   of reforms    supervision    is delayed due to bureaucratic
capacity of CBU       proposed under   missions.     resistance, procedural
PPF and                        difficulties.
additional
reforms as
determined under
project.



-26 -
4. Financial Sector   Reduced         Evaluation of  Assumption: upgrading of
Information System   transaction      system         accounting, audit, and
including upgrading of  time/increased    performance   operational systems will provide
payment systems, bank  volume of      against        necessary data for input to MIS.
MIS, and              payment system;  baseline data;
telecommunications    reduced bank    bank financial
systems              operational cost  statements.
and improved
risk management.
5. Debt Recovery     Asset Resolution   Semi-annual   Risks: Privatization of banks is
Management to assist   Agency identifies  monitoring  hampered by macroeconomic
banks in workout of    and assists in  reports with   conditions and lack of
non-performing assets   management of   data collected  restructuring in banks. The
(NPAs). Bank         NPAs; Bank       by the PIU.    workout of NPAs is slowed
Privatization Bureau    Privatization                down by lack of restructuring of
to assist the MOF    Bureau organizes                enterprises.
privatize selected   tenders to select
banks.               Investment
Banks for
privatization of
two banks.



-27 -
Annex 2
Uzbekistan: Finance Institution Building Project
Project Description
Project Component 1: US$3.1 million
Technical Assistance to Selected Banks
This component aims to directly improve the management, financial performance, and attractiveness to
strategic foreign investors of participating banks. Intensive institutional strengthening programs tailored
to the needs of each participating bank would address critical issues for bank management, including
treasury and financial risk management, strategic planning, accounting, internal audits, Management
Information Systems (MIS), and credit risk management. To achieve sustained institutional change,
experts will be placed in participating banks for a multi-annual period sufficient to design and implement
reforms.
Selection of Participating Banks. The project aims to focus scarce resources on a limited number of
institutions best situated to benefit from the assistanlCe.  Six banks have been pre-selected for
participation: UzPromstroybank, UzZhilsberbank, Asaka Bank, Andijan Bank, UzDaewoo Bank, and
Ipak Yuli Bank. The selection of banks was done in close cooperation with the Central Bank of
Uzbekistan, the Ministry of Finance, and the Government according to the following criteria:
D  Acceptable financial condition: banks must have earned a rating of "3' or better in CBU on-site
examinations, and must at all times be in good standing with the CBU;
*  Commitment to the development of the private sector:  the bank's current lending activities,
percentage of assets in commercial loans, and utilization of foreign credit lines are considered as
positive indicators;
*  Demonstrated commitment/ownership of TA program: Several participating banks have already
demonstrated their commitment by implementing recommendations received from other foreign
advisers (EBRD, TACIS). In other cases, commitment may only be judged from interviews and the
bank's willingness to pay for TA; and
*  Private Ownership: For state-owned banks, a Government commitment to selling the majority of
shares and/or control to a foreign investor (or a local private financial institution, except another
bank), within the time period of project implementation.
The application of these criteria to the six selected banks is provided in the Project Files in the document
"Bank Selection Criteria".
A pilot for this TA component has been underway at UzPromstroybank (UPSB). In addition to the
benefits to UPSB, this inside-perspective has significantly added to the knowledge of the FIBL team, by
making clearer what additional work is needed in areas such as International Accounting Standards
(IAS), and transparency. The perspective from the commercial bank side has also enriched the
understanding of what regulatory matters are still problematic and what still needs to be done by the CBU
and GOU to strengthen the industry.



- 28 -
Scope of Technical Assistance. Technical assistance will focus primarily on the risks inherent in
commercial bank operations and management. The following program was developed in close
collaboration with Uzbek banks, with input from foreign auditors, examiners, and trainers with
experience in the country.
* Bank Strategy and Planning: strategic planning process and variance analysis; bank organizational
structure, including strategy for management of branches.
*  Treasury Risk Management: liquidity risk management; asset-liability management (ALM), interest
rate risk management; foreign exchange risk management, especially derivatives (e.g., forwards,
swaps); and budgeting (individually-tailored programs may address under this module or under Bank
Strategy and Planning).
* Credit risk management: written credit policies and procedures; loan analysis methodology and
approval procedures; loan structuring and documentation; loan booking and billing procedures; data
base management and reporting; loan review; loan monitoring; problem loan identification and
management; management of the loan portfolio; identification, analysis and management of non-loan
forms of credit risk, such as counter-party risk for treasury transactions; and securities evaluation and
investment policy.
* Bank Accounting, MIS, and Internal Auditing: training to improve capacity of accounting and MIS
management to provide timely, accurate, and complete information (to assist in implementation of
Component 4); internal accounting organization, reporting structure, policies and procedures; internal
auditing organization, reporting structure, policies and procedures; compliance with CBU and IAS
standards of accounting and internal audit.
Tailoring to Individual Bank Needs. The participating banks have different capacities and needs. For
example, initial analysis indicates that the young banks have newer information systems and be further
along in the implementation of IAS. Banks with large loan portfolios may need assistance in problem
loan management, while banks with few loans may need help developing lending capacity. For this
reason, the generic TA package identified in the preceding paragraph has been adjusted to reflect the
capacity and needs of each bank, resulting in six "bank-specific" TA programs (available in Project
Files). Notwithstanding these variations, each bank-specific program will include a review of the four
areas described above (strategy/planning; treasury and credit risk management, and accounting/
MIS/auditing). The amount of TA to be provided in each area will differ in accordance with (a) the
bank's relative capacity and needs; (b) TA received from other sources; and (c) stated preferences of the
participating bank.
Implementation Arrangements. A single provider will be selected to implement the component for all
participating banks, with several expected benefits: to increase the consultant's attraction anid
commitment to the project, to minimize contract work at the PIU, and most importantly to maximize
flexibility, facilitate sharing of experience/information and quality of the programs. Short-term advisers
will be used by the contractor to supplement expertise of long-term advisers in specialty areas. For
example, a short-term adviser could be used to strengthen interest rate hedging (swaps, futures), where
low current activity is growing rapidly and may pose a significant risk in future.



- 29 -
Component 2: US$5.1 million
Sector Wide Technical Assistance
To provide technical assistance to all Uzbek commercial banks, Component 2 provides training in critical
risk management areas via two channels: an established Regional Training Center and directly to each
bank. Staff training ranks as the top need throughout the banking system, and for the majority of topics
would be provided most effectively via joint training. The objectives of training for each of the areas
identified for sector-wide training are as follows:
*  Automated credit analysis. Software programs for credit analysis will be developed and made
available to all banks, covering both the review of past performance and the financial projections
associated with business plans. Attention will be paid to the local corporate accounting format in
order to facilitate data entry. The pure development phase will require four to five months including
preparation of the manuals. Training sessions for interpretation of the output of these programs will
follow, organized for small teams or in one-to-one sessions. When this preparatory phase has been
completed, each bank conduct analysis for selected borrowers. A professional credit analysis trainer
will be required for an estimated period of 18 months.
*  Internal auditing. In addition to skills traininlg, this module will emphasize implementation. After
obtaining the explicit support of the chairman of each bank, a proper audit plan will be prepared in
each bank. Its execution will be secured by monthly in-house working sessions with this adviser (for
the Banks based in Tashkent) or in the Regional Training Center (for the banks outside Tashkent).
  Bank accounting under IAS. The banking sector has officially adapted IAS, but is far short of
effective implementation, as confirmed in CBU examinations. USAID has provided some training,
but is inadequate for the breadth of the sector, especially considering that branches with no IAS
training continue to operate autonomously in accounting.
*  Bank MIS development. This training available to all Uzbek banks will follow from the MIS work
performed in Component 4 (FSIS).
-  External Audits. The component will finance external audits for commercial banks in compliance
with IAS for 1999 and 2000.
Component 3: US$ 0.8 million
Regulatory/Supervisory Capacity Building
This component would strengthen the legal/regulatory and supervisory capacity of the CBU as
recommended in the report entitled Financial Sector Restructuring Project, World Bank Project
Preparation Facility, Final Report, dated July 31, 1998. The discussion below addresses assistance
provided to date under the PPF, further actions required to implement the recommendations under the
PPF, and additional areas of strengthening to be provided under the proposed project.
Review of the evolution of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The PPF played an important role in
the upgrading of CBU supervisory function:



- 30 -
* More than 30 papers on banking supervisory issues were produced. The PPF however was not
intended to review the draft prudential regulations developed by the CBU on the basis of these
recommendations. The same applies also to the interpretation by CBU staff of their application by
the commercial banks.
*  The PPF also supported analysis of the basic legal framework for banking, e.g., the central banking
law, commercial banking law, collateral law, and laws covering leasing and taxation of banks. No
follow up to ensure implementation was supported under the PPF.
As mentioned, USAID has been engaged in TA to strengthen the CBU program of supervision since mid-
1997. Although focused on examination and accounting matters (e.g., on-site examination, call reports.
standardized bank evaluation reports, and accounting training for commercial banks), support provided
under the USAID program also contributed to supervisory papers under the PPF which had a strong
accounting component, for example, capital adequacy and loan classification.
Current status of PPF recommendations. Concerning the supervisory recommendations made under the
PPF, a review of prudential regulations developed on their basis indicates that PPF recommendations
have in general been closely followed. However, several key recommendations have not yet been
implemented, including the requirement that securities market activities of commercial banks be
conducted via separately-capitalized subsidiaries. In addition, a new norm concerning bank liquidation in
apparently in conflict witli bankruptcy law and awaits final resolution. Other areas addressed by the PPF
have lagged or been suspended, including recommendations for training of CBU supervisory staff and the
development of human resources policy . Concerning the PPF contribution to reform of several relevant
laws, little progress has been reported. In the case of the central bank and commercial banking laws, no
significant progress in passage has been made since the release of the recommendations. The new
collateral law adopted by Parliament does not incorporate several key recommendations made under the
PPF and supported by the CBU.
Additional TA needs of CBU. The CBU has requested assistance in implementing the legal/regulatory
and supervisory recommendations made with support of the PPF. The project will not duplicate
assistance provided by USAID in the areas such as annual on-site examinations, call reports, and material
misstatements. In total, an estimated eighteen months of TA will be required to support implementation
of the results of studies supported by the PPF.
* Implementation of Newly-issued Norms. Several newly issued regulations have not yet been fully
implemented due to lack of supervisory capability of CBU staff. The component would provide
assistance to:
Clarify the supervisory implications of the norms; and
Train CBU staff in application of norms to commercial banks.
* Strengthening of Supervisory Capability. Areas to be covered include assessment of bank credit
policies (particularly in banks not participating in other Project components) and application of new
norm on licensing.
*  Foreign Exchange Risk Management. This component will support a consultant to provide training
both to CBU staff and commercial banks regarding best practices in foreign exchange trading, risk
control and management. Analysis indicates that several banks risk incurring foreign exchange-
losses in the case of devaluation or are ill prepared for foreign currency trading. The adviser, who



- 31 -
will have a trading background, will assist in preparation of regulations and supervisory procedures
for the Central Bank (in conjunction with legal specialists), and provide training and advisory
services to commercial banks (execution of auctions, simulated trades).  This individual will
undertake a series of visits for training and advisory work in support of CBU and commercial banks.
Legal Reform. The project includes analytical support to CBU for implemenitation of legal reforms
which will result from this component, .
Component 4: US$10.8 million
Financial Sector Information System Framework
This component supports four activities: (i) strengthening the MIS available to support decisions of bank
managers; (ii) upgrading the payment system; (iii) improving performance of telecommunications in
support of Management Information Systems (MIS) and payment systems; and (iv) establishment of a
global security system to safeguard the commercial banks' data transfer networks.
Modern payment systems and effective bank MIS will serve to strengthen independent operation of
commercial banks by increasing their capability for sound management. Upgrading of MIS will
strengthen management of liquidity and risk within commercial banks - thus increasing their ability for
independent, technically competent operation. The payment system reform will permit intra-bank
clearing and settlement on a net basis at the bank level, eliminating direct Central Bank involvement in
this core function of commercial banks. Currently, each transaction is settled in Central Bank accounts
on a gross basis for each bank branch, dramatically increasing potential for government interference
while dramatically reducing efficiency and increasing liquidity costs. Finally, the proposed investment
will accommodate a modest growth in volume of transactions in relation to the current low levels. As
activity grows, the Government ability to micromanage the system (feasible only with conditions of light
activity) will progressively diminish.
Relation to Other Components. The FSIS will support the objectives of each of the other components -
improved risk management (and systemic stability), operational efficiency and independence,
competitiveness of medium- and smaller-sized banks, and strengthened supervision by the CBU.
Conversely, the component relies on parallel institutional strengthening under the other components,
particularly in the area of information quality. In this respect, the focus on auditing and accounting under
components I and 2 are particularly useful.
MIS. The objective is to provide all commercial banks with a core MIS model, and to develop pilot
installation in two banks. After validation in these two Pilot banks, this core MIS model will be proposed
for generalization to all banks. Customization of the system would be undertaken in cooperation with
each bank.
Currently, most commercial banks have installed a locally developed decentralized accounting software
(FIDO) which has been deemed in compliance witlh IAS requirements. Several banks are implementing
more advanced internationally-developed systems. Despite the broad compliance of systems with IAS,
poor accounting knowledge of bank staff has hindered has hindered implementation. Training is
currently carried out by USAID specialists.
The proposed integrated system  will require several important changes in bank operations:  (i)
consolidation of statements produced at commercial bank's branches, regional offices, and head office



- 32 -
departments; (ii) development of a database and software tools to produce summary reports and analysis
for senior management and CBU supervisors.
Approach. The component will be executed in four phases: (i) definition of functional and technical
specifications; (ii) systems development; (iii) pilot implementation in two banks; and (iv) generalization
to all banks. In parallel, training courses will be provided to train users and specialists and assist in
tailoring to fit the specific needs of individual banks.
*  Functional Specification. Definition of the basic needs for statements and management information
required at the branches, regional offices and head office (including CBU requirements for the
supervision to the banks) and development of Terms of Reference for selection of MIS software and
system developer.
*  Technical design. Definition of the basic structure of the MIS model software. The methods for
collection, transfer, and entry of data from branches, regional centers, head office department, and
external sources will be carefully designed based on the analysis of information requirements and
availability.
* Development and implementation. A pilot model will be developed, tested and implemented in two
banks for testing and validation.
Payment System. Despite the relative strength of the Uzbek payment system vis a vis neighboring
countries, (i) excessive liquidity is required (the 800 independent settlement accounts have no overdraft;
no netting mechanism exists even for transactions within the same bank); (ii) there is no consolidated
liquidity position available for one bank at the regional or national level; (iii) there is no possibility of
liquidity and risk monitoring at the national level by the commercial bank's head office or by the Central
Baank; (iv) in practical terms the system is able to process only credit orders - no checks or debit orders
are processed due to lack of a risk management mechanism embedded in the settlement system; and (v)
more than 30 percent of the present volume concerns intra-bank transactions that would not need to be
settled at the national inter-bank level.
This system does not meet the requirements of a modern and developed payment system, particularly as
the Uzbek economy prepares for liberalization and growth in the medium term. Correcting the problems
noted above will improve the efficiency, safety and soundness of the system - while accommodating
modest future market growth.
Approach. The main objectives of the new payment system are: (i) to permit commercial banks to
conduct inter-branch transactions without passing through CBU accounts; (ii) to reduce the cost of
liquidity and the risks via centralized fund management; (iii) to assist the commercial banks to define
their own internal clearing and settlement procedures in accordance with their organizational strategy;
(iv) to reduce the constraints of internal processes; and (v) to build a system able to integrate new debit
and credit payment instruments in a secure and efficient environment.
This project will encompass the payment settlement leg of securities market operations. In return, the
development of the securities market will open the possibility for banks to use securities as collateral
intra-day liquidity needs for settlement of large value operations and to optimize the use and the cost of
funds. In addition, the project will prepare the basis for the settlement in retail banking operations,
including credit cards and other low value payments.



- 33 -
The approach consists in building a fully centralized settlement account system managed by the CBU,
with only one settlement account per bank. Settlement will be based on a standard real time gross
settlement (RTGS) process embedding good practice features for flexibility and monitoring risk
management in a fully secured environment.
Centralization of the settlement process. Project design will be based on the following principles: (i)
each bank will maintain only one settlement account at the CBU; (ii) there will be only one connection
between a commercial bank and the national settlement system; and (iii) the new system will be based on
a Real Time Gross Settlement process (RTGS) with implications for improved management of risk and
liquidity.
This system will bring the following advantages to the financial sector: (i) consolidated liquidity
management at head office level for commercial banks; (ii) flexibility needed to introduce new payment
instruments (credit and debit) to improve customer service; (iii) improved supervisory capability of CBU;
(iv) and more timely and accurate information on financial sector for input to macroeconomic
policymaking.
RTGS project description. This new system will consist of three phases: (i) system design , in
compliance with International Standards; (ii) development and installation, with a central RTGS system
(to be managed by an entity jointly owned by CBU and the commercial banks - proposal currently under
review); and (iii) the development of commercial bank system interfaces and organizational procedures.
Communication network. Each of the components described above depends on the quality and capacity
of the network infrastructure. This component supports implementation of both the MIS and the Payment
system. The capacity of the existing system is sufficient for moderate expansion of transaction volume;
however, the topology of the system (a three tier star system) does not provide adequate linkage between
the regional centers and the Central System in CBU (Tashkent) at peak hours. As a result, severe limits
are currently placed on data transfer during normal business hours. If not corrected, this situation would
severely reduce the effectiveness of MIS supported under the component and would inhibit the offering
of new banking products. A further concern is that the current system would not accommodate the
implementation of a new system for secure transfer of data currently under design.
The Ministry of Telecommunication plans completion of a new, high-capacity digital network linking all
regional centers by mid 1999. Based on this network, the project will support development of a new high
capacity and modern digital system (integration of data, voice, image) connecting Tashkent with 12
regional centers. The system will be administered by a new entity jointly owned by CBU and the Banks,
as confirmed in a letter received from CBU in January 1999.
Additional investment by commercial banks for their own internal networks will be necessary for intra-
bank transactions between branches and the head office. Sector-wide TA under component 2 will assist
banks in optimizing use of the common network. During the first phase, at least the six largest banks are
planned to be connected to the network. Progressively, other banks will be connected according to their
needs and technical situation.
Security System. Development of an integrated security system will be necessary to safeguard operation
of the payment system and development of the telecommunication network, given the high risks and
unpredictable consequences to the economy. The Security System shall be designed to cover each
element of the Financial Sector Information System Framework and will protect information of all
commercial banks and also provide back-up and recovery functions in case of emergency situations.



- 34-
The project will address the security of all commercial bank information on all phases and stages of
creation, transfer and processing, security of local network servers against external interference and from
the users of local settlement networks (LSN). Specific areas to be covered include: ownership of
information and protected access; information confidentiality; archiving of incoming information with the
purpose of analysis and audit; corporate network information security; local network information
security; traffic coding; authenticity and identification of users; and information integrity.
Implementation of the project will provide security of information against unauthorized access and
influence over system, integrity, safeness, confidentiality and availability of data.
Component 5: US$4.8 million
Bank Privatization and Restructuring
This component is intended to provide technical assistance for the restructuring of the banking sector in
view of the foreign exchange convertibility planned for 2000. In order for the commercial banks to
operate as modern financial institutions, with market-based allocation of credit and increased attention to
customer needs, restructuring and sale of the state-owned institutions will be necessary. At present,
several commercial banks have non-performing assets which would inhibit their operation as private
commercial entities, reducing the prospect for sale of these institutions to a strategic international
investor. Therefore, senior policy advice will be provided to assist the Government in restructuring the
balance sheets of commercial banks and then to support the privatization process as described below:
Privatization of banks. The component will support creation of a Bank Privatization Bureau (BPB) for the
purpose of organizing the privatization process of the banks. The BPB will be under the management of
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Government has indicated a preliminary list of banks as candidates
for privatization as follows: Asaka bank, NBU, Uzpromstroybank and Pakhtabank.
Restructuring of non-performing assets (NPAs) of commercial banks. An Asset Restructuring Agency
(ARA) will be established under the MOF to assist in resolution of commercial banks' non-performing
assets. The agency will be empowered to restructuring insolvent borrowers and undertake bankruptcy
proceedings as necessary.
Support to be provided to the two sub-components will include legal advisory support to ensure an
adequate framework for debt restructuring and privatization and assistance with specific transactions.
The component will support foreign specialists in asset restructuring and privatization as well as a senior
policy expert to support broader sectoral reform and liberalization.
Preparation for Potential Future Reform. The project will finance studies of various issues in financial
sector reform in preparation for the Government's announced foreign exchange liberalization.
Preparation of the Enterprise Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL): The FSAL will take the
restructuring process one step beyond the FIBL. In particular, the FSAL will focus, inter alia, on the
following six key areas:
I.     Elimination of directed lending in order to avoid further accumulation of non-performing loans
on the balance sheets of the banks;



- 35 -
2.    Restructuring enterprises with non-performing loans to work out the bad loans;
3.    Application of bankruptcy and liquidation of non-viable enterprises, where restructuring is not
possible and the enterprises cannot be privatized on a "going concern" basis;
4.    Clean-up of the banks' balance sheet and GOU acknowledgement of the public debt created by
losses incurred by the banks;
5.    Privatization of the four largest government-owned banks to foreign strategic investors; and
6.    Case-by-case privatization of viable state enterprises in telecommunications, chemicals and gold
mining as well as the Tashkent Airport, Fergana Refinery and Kisilkum Cement.
Component 6: US$2.2 million
Project Implementation Unit
The project will support strengthening of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in support of the
Supervisory Board encharged with overall responsibility for project management and coordination of the
activities under each of the loan components. The PIU will be supervised and controlled by the Director
General appointed by the Supervisory Board. Created for implementation of the PPF, the PIU will be
strengthened in the following areas in order to execute the Project: Project Management, Procurement,
and Financial Management/Information Systems. Foreign resident advisors would be hired under each of
the three areas. The PIU would be responsible for disbursing funds against the Special Accounts (SAs),
payment to consultants, coordinating the activities of the consultants, and tracking expenditures under the
loan. The organizational structure of the PIU will be as follows:
The PIU will hire a Project Management Consulting (PMC) firm which will operate under the supervision
of the Director General. The PMC will provide the PIU with specialists in the various fields mentioned
above as well as train local staff who will serve as counterparts to the international experts. The PMC
will coordinate the implementation of the loan components and, together with the Director General,
maintain the policy dialogue with the GOU regarding banking sector reform issues, including those
highlighted by the PPF. It will also assist the PIU in capacity building. There will also be a team of long-
term foreign banking experts resident in the pilot banks. The GOU will provide an in-kind contribution to
the PIU in the form of adequate premises at the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU). Required capital
investmnent (office space, furniture, computers office equipment, and vehicles) will be funded from the
FIBL, according to a budget jointly agreed between the Bank and the GOU.



- 36 -
Annex 3
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Project
Estimated Project Costs,
Thousands of US$
Components                Foreign       Local        Total'
1. TA to Selected Banks               2,920         200          3,120
2. Sector Wide TA                     4,192         920          5,112
Internal Audit (in house & center)     540          200           740
Credit Analysis                        432          200           632
Bank Accounting                        324          200           524
MIS Management                         196           20           216
1999/2000 IAS bank audits             2,700         300          3,000
3. Regulator/Supervisory Capacity      648          200           848
4. Financial Sector Information       10,341        450          10,791
Systems                                                 .
Payment System                        1,890         150          2,040
MIS System                            2,100          -           2,100
Telecommunication Network             4,800         200          5,000
Security System                       1,551         100          1,651
5. Bank PrivatizationlRestructuring   4,218         550          4,768
Legal Advisory Support                 490           50           540
Restructuring/privatization Support   3,728         500          4,228
6. Project Implementation Unit        1,252         943          2,195
Total (Allocated Cost)                23,571       3,263        26,834
Contingencies (5.5% of base cost)                                1,682
PPF                                                              1,200
Fee                                                               250
TOTAL PROJECT COST3                                             29,966



- 37 -
Project Financing by component
Component                          Government      Bank          Total
1. Institution Building - Selected Banks  200      2,920         3,120
2. Institution Building - Sector Wide  600         4,512         5,112
3. Institution Building - CBU          200          648           848
4. Financial Sector Information Systems    3,080   7,711         10,791
5. Bank Privatization/Restructuring    200         4,568         4,768
6. Project Implementation Unit         450         1,745         2,195
Total Allocated                       4,730        22,104       26,834
Contingencies                          236          1,446        1,682
PPF                                                 1,200        1,200
Fee                                                 250           250
Total Project Cost                    4,966        25,000       29,966
'Salaries based on experience under PPF and EIBL. US$18,000 monthly salary includes
US$2,000 expenses.



- 38 -
Annex 4
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Project
Financial Summary
Millions of US$
FINANCIER   LOCAL               FOREIGN           TOTAL          % OF TOTAL
IBRD                1.16           23.84            25.00              83.4
Government         2.34             2.63             4.97              16.6
Total              3.50            26.47            29.97             100.0



- 39 -
Annex 5
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Loan
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Financial Institution Building
Project.
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The project activities not financed by the
Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations of the Borrower. The project
elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A. A
procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table C. All other procurement information, including capability of the
implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is
presented in Table B.



- 40 -
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                       Procurement Method                           Total Cost
(including
contingencies)'
ICB                    IS/NS     Other2           NB F
1. Goods
Information Systems                  6 511                                                              7.162
(6.511)                                                           (7 162)
Office Equipment/Computers
And Vehicles                                           0 300'                                         0.330
(0 300)                                       (0 330)
3. Services
Technical assistance                                                  17 580                           18 459
(14.500)                         (15.225)
Training                                                               0 800                            0 840
(- )
4 Incremental Operating Cost
Salaries & contract services                                           0.393                            0 413
(0.393)                          (0 413)
Operating Cost                                            1 2500                                        1 313
(0 400)                                       (0 420)
Total                                   6 300               1 550        18 293                           28.517
(3.700)            (0 700)     (16 196)                          (23 550)
Note   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
'Contingencies 10 percent for Goods, and 5 percent for Services and Incremental Operating Cost
2Other: Technical assistance (US$ 17 58 million), training (US$0 80 million), and incremental operating cost (US$0.39 million)
'Office equipment/computers and vehicles will be procured through International/National Shopping procedures



Annex 5, Table B: Summary of Procurement Activities
...tioii I;         .,,i..     ,    .         . . ,. 
Goods                       ICB          NCB           IS             NS           Minor          Other      Percentage of loan
Works        Methods    amount subject to
prior review
Procurement thresholds:   Above $200,000             Below           Below                                          85%
Individual and aggregate                            $200,000        $50,000
Aggregate:               Aggregate       Aggregate
$6.5 11 million           $0.30 million    $0.40 million
Prior Review                 All                     First 2         First 2
Packages                 Contracts       Contracts
Consultants                QCBS          QBS      Fixed Budget       LCS        Qualifications  Single-source    Individuals
(firms)                  (firms)
Procurement method        Aggregate:                                                                           Aggregate: $1.54
thresholds              $12.96 million                                                                             million
Prior Review            TORs and Short                                                                             TOR and
Lists for all                                                                          qualifications
assignments;                                                                         for all assignment
RFP/tech &                                                                            contracts above
combined eval.                                                                             $50,000
and
contract for
assignments
above $100,000
Ex-post Review         Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with Para.4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines and
reviews during supervision missions.



- 42 -
Procurement of Goods
Goods (approx. US$6.81 million) consisting of computers hardware/software, telecommunication
network and MIS for financial sector information system; training equipment; vehicles; office
equipment/supplies will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project objectives, in
package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement
will be followed:
a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts
above U,S$200,000 equivalent for a total amount of US$6.51 million. These
goods will consist of computer hardware/software; telecommunication network
and MIS for the Financial Sector Information System Component of the
project
b)    International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-
the-shelf goods (including equipment) of standard specifications estimated to
cost under US$200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.40 million. These procedures will require quotations from at least (3) three
suppliers from two different countries.
C)    National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for contracts valued under
US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$0.15 million consisting of goods
ordinarily available in the country. Comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least (3) three suppliers to assure competitive prices will be required.
2.    Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (technical assistance US$14.50 million and training
assignments US$0.800 million) required for the Project will be awarded following the World
Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 1997, revised September 1997. Contracts will be packaged to include a combination of
related skills and services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to
reduce the number of contracts to be managed by the PIU.  The following methods of
procurement will be followed:
a)    Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for
consultant services for technical assistance on all Six Components of the project
as described in Part C of this PAD up to an aggregate amount of US$12.96
million equivalent.
b)    Least-Cost (LC) Procedures will be used for auditing services contracts less
than or equal to $0.2 million up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000,
c)    Individual Consultant based on Qualification procedures will be used through
out the life of the project for small assignments of short term duration such as
Training Center Services in Component 2 of the project for an aggregate amount
of US$1.54 million.



-43 -
3.    Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the "Development Business" around
the period of Loan Negotiations and will be updated annually for all outstanding ICB
procurement thereafter. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000 Specific Procurement
Notices/Request for Expression of Interest will be advertised in "Development Business" (in the
English Language) and in a major local newspaper (in the national language).
4.    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed
procurement plan (Table C) for the project would be reviewed by the PIU, and the Bank will be
advised of any revisions for its review in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Annex
1 of the Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be
carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which will be modified as
appropriate and included in the progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review:. (a) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation,
recommendation of award and contract will be conducted for all ICB procedures and the first two
contracts for National and International Shopping regardless of their value. (b) Consulting
Services: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to prior Bank review.
Request for Proposals (RFP), short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation
reports and recommendation for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for
individual consultants above $50,000 and firms above $100,000.  All documents and
recommendations involving sole source contracting will be subject to Bank prior review.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a
contract resulting in an increase above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank will reserve
the right to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for
consulting services).
5.    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
For contracts to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, with the agreement of the
Bank, grant a margin of preference up to 15 percent in accordance with Section II of the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January
and August 1996.
6.    Custom Duties and Taxes
All goods specifically imported for the project will be exempt from custom duties and taxes.
Foreign technical assistance specialists will be exempt from the Government's normal personal
income tax. Assurances to this effect will be obtained during negotiations.



Annex 5, Table C: Procurement Plan
(US$million equivalent)
Description          Type   Number of   Estimated   Procurement               Date of    Issuance            Submission of bids   Signing               Contract
.____________I packages             Cost          method             GPN         Of invitation                             Contracts           Completion
A. GooDS
Informnation         G            1            6.511          ICB            4/30/99       7/15/99             10/1/99             2/28/00             6/30/00 - 6/30/01
Systems
Office comp/equip./   G           3            0.700          IS/NS          4/30/99       7/15/99             8/15/99              9/15/99             11/30199
vehicles
B. Services                                                                                115 pckg.
Techncal ssisance TA        4            14.500          QCBS          4/30/99       7/15/99;          9/10/99                10/20/99            12/30/2002
Technical assistance                                                                     2ndpckg.
9/15/99            11/15/99               12/30/99            12/30/2001
31, 41i pckg.
1/10/2000         2/28/2000              4/15/2000           12/30/2002
C. OPERATING                                    0.393        Annual budget
COST
Total                                     22.104
G= Goods; TA =Technical Assistance; TR  -Training; ICB =International Competitive Bidding; IS = Intemnational Shopping;
NS =National Shopping; QCBS =Quality and Cost Bases Selection; CQ =Consultant qualifications; IC =Individual Consultant



- 45 -
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed over a period of five years, which
includes six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there
is no standard disbursement profile for Uzbekistan, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's
experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Uzbekistan.
The Project Completion Date is estimated to be December 31, 2003 and the Closing Date is
estimated to be June 30, 2004.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) as follows: (a) goods costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each contract;
(b) services for contracts for (i) individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (d) training, under contracts costing less than $10,000
equivalent each; and (e) implementation and coordination agencies incremental operating costs.
Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. SOEs will be certified locally by the PIU.
Related documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by
the PIU for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement is made. This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and
Bank supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by the evidence
furnished, or amounts in excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special
Accounts (SA), the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may
exercise this right until the Borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank
agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible
amounts.
Special Accounts:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank,
acceptable to the Bank. The Special Accounts will correspond to the project components related to
the CBU and MOF. Special Account A will cover components 1 through 4 and 6 (CBU-related
components) and Special Account B will cover component 5 (MOF-related). During the early stage
of the project, the initial aggregate authorized allocation of the Special Accounts will be limited to
US$350,000 for account A and US$125,000 for account B.  However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the loan have reached a threshold ($3.0 million for components 1 through 4 and
six; US$1.2 for component 5), the initial allocations to the Special Accounts may be increased up to a
specified authorized allocation ($0.70 million for account A and US$0.25 for account B) by
submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The minimum amount of each application
should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted at
least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.
The Borrower will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the Bank
under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial
statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system will be
established at the.  The Project Financial and Accounting Officer at the PIU will maintain
consolidated accounts for the project and will prepare quarterly financial reports as part of PMRs.
The PIU Financial/MIS Officer will receive intensive training and assistance from the foreign TA



-46 -
consultant hired by the PIU in maintaining and consolidating. The accounts will be maintained for all
project funds, i.e. loan funds (see Annex 6) for details of financial management arrangements).



Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will rest with the Supervisory Board composed of representatives of COM, MOF, and CBU and
supported by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU will be strengthened by Technical Assistance consisting of: Senior Advisor, Procurement, Financial
Management and/Information Systems specialists. The PIU has already acquired some experience in managing and administering the consultant contracts for
project preparation financed by the PHRD grant. The RFP for the technical assistance to the PIU is in the process of preparation and a Request for Expression of
Interest for that assignment appeared in the April issue of Development Business.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or                                 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status                                ready by negotiations
A CPAR for the Republic of Uzbekistan has not been completed. For this Project,  Yes   x    No C1
the Governnent will follow the agreed Bank procurement procedures as described  RFPs for the first year of consultancy are being prepared and will be ready
in this document and in the Loan Agreement.                              by loan effectiveness.
"N <                     .- -                                                 ..i ~ZV ,A   ..;.
Estimated date of Project  Date of publication of General  Indicate if there is procurement    Domestic Preference for    Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop            Procurement Notice           subject to mandatory SPN in     Goods                     Works, if applicable
Development Business
7/99 (date will be                   4/30/99            Yes x     No                    Yes  x   No               Yes   a       No X
determined based on the
Board Date)
Retroactive fiancing                                                                                          Ac,
Yes E3X     No                                                                                           ..Y~~I
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The PIU of the Borrower will maintain complete procurement files which will be
reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually. Procurement mformation will be recorded by the PIU and submitted
to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will mclude: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing
of procurement actions, mcluding advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as compliance with aggregate limits
(within 15%) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module will help the PIU monitor all
procurement information.
Co-financing:. None
f: :    f     .y S   ::  : ':: - ; : 5 : .; .  .............
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement m the
Project: Uzbekistan: Financial Sector Institution Building Project    Name: Seyoum Solomon  Ext: 3-2393
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The procurement Officer at the Resident Mission m Tashkent will provide procurement
support as the need arises.



- 48 -
Annex 5, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$       Financing Percentage
million
1. Goods                                                       100% of
(a) under Component 4                           6.511  foreign expenditures, 100%
(b) under component 5                           0.20   of local expenditures (ex-
(c) under component 6                           0.10  factory) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Services                                      14.500         100%
3. Incremental Operating Cost                     0.793  on a declining basis: 100%
until 6/30/01;80% until
6/30/02; 60% until 6/30/03
and 40 % there after
4. Refinancing of PPF                             1.200        100%
5. Fee                                           0.250  Pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Loan Agreement
6. Unallocated                                    1.446
Total           25.000



-49 -
Annex 6
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Project
Financial Management
The project Supervisory Board, comprised of representatives of the Council of Ministers (COM),
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) will be encharged with managing
and coordinating implementation of the FIBL. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established
under the Supervisory Board to execute the project. The PIU staff will include a Director and Chief
Accountant.
The overall financial management objective of the project is to provide timely and reliable information
that allows proper internal and external monitoring and gives early warning of problems that the project
would face in its implementation.
Internal Controls. Internal controls will be based on the principles of proper authorizations, segregation
of duties, independent verifications and safeguarding of assets and records.
Accounting. The PIU will have a Management Information System (MIS) as a condition of loan
Effectiveness. This software will include modules for general accounting and administration of
Participation Arrangements. The system will comply with Uzbek requirements and International
Accounting Standards (IAS).
Financial Reporting. Although the project will disburse based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs),
the PIU will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) according to LACI
procedures.
Auditing. The PIU will be audited by an independent auditor in accordance with International
Standards of Auditing, both acceptable to the Bank. Financial Management Action Plan



- 50 -
Staff resources of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Job dlescriptions
Organization chart of the PIU
|Supervisory Board
|  of the FIBL
I            I~~~~~ Translator
| senior foreign adviser        Director of th              Secretary
PIU           I~~~~ Driver
Procurement Section       Accounting & MIS Section
1 foreign                       1 foreign
advisor
I Procurement & Contracting              I Senior Accounting &
Manager                                  Finance Manager
(Deputy Director)
I Procurement Officer
I Accounting &
.______________________________ _   _D isbursem ent
I Lawyer
I Translator
I Secretary
I Driver
Job description of PIU staff. Terms of Reference for the following PIU staff are to be finalized and
agreed between the Supervisory Board and the Bank for the following staff: Director and local staff;
Foreign Senior Adviser; Foreign Finance and MIS Adviser; and Foreign Procurement Adviser.
General comments.  The operational management of the PIU, including the selection, hiring,
management and payment of all foreign and local staff excepted the Director is contracted out to a
Consultant selected by international tender.
Reporting
See organizational chart above. All staff have a managerial reporting line to the Director except the
senior adviser who reports to the Supervisory Board. Local staff in the two sections have an operational
reporting line to their respective foreign adviser. The Director and the member of the Supervisory Board.
in charge of his daily supervision, meet daily.



-51 -
Equipment
Hardware
A draft budget for hardware purchases is to be finalized and agreed between the Supervisory Board and
the Bank.
Software
The detailed budget for software purchases is to be finalized and agreed between the Supervisory Board
and the Bank. Two separate LANs cover a) the accounting & MIS section b) the procurement section in
order to segregate disbursement from procurement. Only the Director has access to both LANs, on a
read-only basis, to ensure proper monitoring and control. PINs are used. The senior adviser, the
secretaries, translators and the lawyer are not connected to a LAN.
Accounting Program
The specifications of this system are to be finalized and agreed between the Supervisory Board and the
Bank. This MIS (accounting and sub-loan modules) will be commissioned from a software house.
US$35,000 has been budgeted for this activity. The MIS is only accessible to the Accounting & MIS
section LAN and, on a read-only basis, to the Director.
Financial Management System and Internal Control
On Procurement and Payables
All Procurement Guidelines of the Bank are applicable and permanent contact maintained with the
procurement specialists at the Bank Resident Mission and Headquarters. Procurement is managed
(a) for procurement of consultancy services, jointly by the Director, the foreign Senior Adviser and the
Procurement Adviser..
(b) for procurement of equipment, and civil works if any, jointly by the Director and the Procurement
Adviser.
The Director is authorized to sign withdrawal applications, authorizing direct payments from the Loan
account and/or requesting replenishment of the Special Accounts. However, the Supervisory Board may
decide that one of its members, will sign jointly with the Director or alone important documents such us
foreign consultancy contracts. The Director may delegate, according to the procedure established by the
Supervisory Board, his signature authority up to the counter value of US$100,00 but not to a staff having
access to the MIS. The project is anticipated to disburse via SOE. Two US$ Special Accounts will be
open with Asaka Bank, an Uzbek Bank controlled for 98 percent by the MoF, with the Bank prior non-
objection.
Requisitioning. All Procurement Guidelines of the Bank are applicable.
Purchasing / Receiving / Invoice Processing / Payments. Purchasing is managed in accordance with
Bank's Procurement Guidelines by the Procurement section, under the direct control of the Director.
Deliveries are receptioned, their integrity physically checked by the procurement section and entered into



- 52-
the inventory. Invoices are checked versus orders or contracts by the Procurement Adviser and logged
into the MIS by the accounting and MIS section. Payments records of the MIS are weekly checked by
the Director versus the orders. All original contractual documents including third party signatures are
kept in the large fireproof safe.
Employee Compensation
A draft budget for foreign advisers is to be finalized and agreed between the Supervisory Board and the
Bank.
Payroll processing disbursement. Hiring, management and payment of all foreign and local staff
excepted the Director is contracted out to a Consultant which directly pays each staff into his/her private
Bank account.
Cash & equivalent
The cash is kept at the strict minimum and under the counter value of US$2,500. Weekly physical
verifications of the cash in safe versus cash recorded by the Accounting and MIS section are made by a
foreign adviser not in charge of accounting & MIS or by the Director. The Director or in his absence,
the member of the Supervisory Board in charge of the daily supervision of the director, are the only
authorized signatories for Bank account withdrawals or transfers. The Accounting and MIS adviser
checks the balance recorded by bank statements against the MIS records.
Receipts and Disbursements. All cash receipts and disbursements are recorded and entered into the MIS.
Custody. The cash is kept in the small fireproof safe. It is extremely unlikely that the PIU would have
excess liquidity denominated in Sums. In such a case, it either organizes time deposits with its banker or
invests exclusively in 30 days Government T Bills. A custody arrangement is negotiated with the
MoF/CBU.
Accounting. See above.
CapitalAssets
To be procured according to Bank Procurement Guidelines by the Procurement section under the direct
supervision of the Director. All equipment and furniture (the PIU will not own properties) are entered
into the inventory and identified in the MIS.
Accountability. The physical presence of equipment and furniture against the inventory is checked
quarterly. Depreciation follows Uzbek regulations.
Budgets
Preparation. To be developed for the Director by the Finance and MIS section and, for procurement, by
the Procurement section.
Adoption. To be submitted by the Director to the review and approval of the Supervisory Board and
Bank non-objection.



- 53 -
Execution & reporting. The Director is responsible for the execution of the budget. S/he reports
quarterly to the Supervisory Board (balance sheet, income statement, statements of sources and uses of
funds).
Accounting system
Reporting. The LACI Project Management Reports are generated by the MIS and
(a) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the
six-month period following the period covered by said report
(b) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the period covered by
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the six-
month period following the period covered by said report;
(c) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered
by said report
(d) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets
(e) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Auditing. The audits of the PIU are carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit will be carried
out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing (ISA)by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank. Project accounts, financial statements, special accounts and SOEs are audited. The audit
reports include a separate opinion for the SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due
to be made from the Loan. The audit reports are sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
Chart of accounts (design). Amendments, if necessary, will be made to the draft Chart of Accounts
discussed between the Bank and Government to comply with Uzbek specific regulations, if any, as soon
as the Senior Accounting & Finance Manager (Deputy Director) will have joined PIU.
The final version will be established by the Finance and MIS adviser and submitted to the approval of the
Supervisory Board and the Bank non-objection.
Reporting. Reporting will be undertaken according to LACI procedures. Each PIU foreigh adviser will
produce separate reports according to own TOR.
Office Space. It is anticipated that, for reasons of efficiency, PIU will be based outside CBU Head
Office, i.e. in a building in the center of Tashkent owned by CBU. The building is equipped with all
modern facilities and will be guarded 24 hours a day. All proper insurance covers will be taken. The
refurbishment expenses, rent, utilities and security expenses are included in budget.



- 54 -
Annex 7
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$121               US$131
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         1 1                  12
First Bank mission (identification)                                 April 1998
Appraisal mission departure                December 10, 1998     December 9, 1998
Negotiations                                February 15, 1999   March 20- 25, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                     August I, 1999
Prepared by: Itzhak Goldberg
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name Specialty
Itzhak Goldberg  PTL
Vincent Polizatto  Bank Supervision and Prudential Framework
Tariq Hassan  Legal
Charlie Garrigues Information Systems
Bahtier Abdullaev  Uzbek Financial Sector
Jacques Gilman  TA to CBU
Alain Abejdid  Bank Restructuring
Daniel Crisafulli Financial Sector
Steve Bartoletti Commercial Banking /credit
Gail Buyske Commercial Banking/strategy
Seyoum Solomon  Procurement
Victor Ordonez Financial Management
Sophia Cox  Team Assistant
Raihona Atakhodjaeva Team Assistant



- 55 -
Annex 8
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Basic Documents for Project Implementation: PIP
B. Bank Staff Assessments: detailed data on banks
C. Related Projects: EIBL PAD June 1998
D. Others
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Loan
Statement of Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Accounts List as of March 31, 1999
Project                              CCY of  Amount in millions (USD)
Loan/Credit Financier   ID    Description                  Commit  Principal Undisb   Disbur  Approval DateClosing Date
36500    IBRD       9123 INSTIT BLDG/TA              USD              21       3.5    17.5    7-Oct-93    31-Oct-99
38610    IBRD       9129 REHABILITATION              USD             160        0      160   28-Mar-95    30-Jun-96
38940    IBRD       9122 COTTON SUB-SEC IMPRV    USD                  66      44.5    21.5  25-May-95   31-Dec-00
40900    IBRD      44942 PILOT WATER SUPPLY           USD              5        0        0   12-Sep-96   31-Dec-00
42160    IBRD       9121 RURAL W.S. & SANITA.         USD             75      70.7      4.3  21-Aug-97   3 1-Dec-05
43260    IBRD      49582 TASHKENT SOLID WASTE   USD                   24       24        0  21-May-98   31-Dec-03
43530    IBRD      55159 ENT. INST. BLDG.             USD             28      27.9      0.1   18-Jun-98   31-Dec-03
43960    IBRD       9125 HEALTH I                    USD              30       30        0   22-Sep-98    30-Jun-03



- 57 -
Annex 10
Uzbekistan: Financial Institution Building Loan
Country at a Glance
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Uzbekistan      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population. mid-year {millions)                      23 7       476     2,28S                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                  1,010     2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                     23.9      1,106    2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (0)                                        2 0        0 2      172
Labor force(')                                        2 7       0 5       1 3      GNP                             Gross
per    I-              > -    primary
Most recent estimate (tatest yeir available, 1991 -97)                            capita              x        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty lne)
Urban population (r of total population)               42        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)               26        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              4                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                                     64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                       19
Gross primary enrollment (9 of school-age populatibn   77        92       III       U-zbekistan
Male                                                78         -        116        --- --Lower-middle-income group
Fernale                                             76                  S t13
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1908      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billiors)                                             13 6      14 3
Gross domestic investmenttGDP                                  23 0      19 3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              28 4      27.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      16 4      16.3
Gross national savings/GDP                                      15 6     15 2
Curren: account balance/GDP                                     -7 2      -4 1    Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                           0 7       0.7      Saxn-                       Investmnent
Total debt/GDP                                                  17 1     18        Savigs.
Total debt servicelexports                                      S 7      151
Present value of debtVGDP                                       15 2
Present vatue of debttexports                                  62 1
Indebtedness
-1976-8   1987-97   1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         -14       16        24        26            -Uzbekistan
GNP per capita                              -3 9      -0 a      -0 5      0 8               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                         3 S       3.1       4 9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment 1%)
(%S of GDP)                                                                        2
Agriculture                                                     26 2     30 6      20
Industry                                                        30 5     27247 4 s1 K
Manufacturing                                                                     0
Services                                                       43 3      419      -10
-20
Private consumption                                            55 2      60 7     -30
General government consumption                                 221       20 8
Imports of goods and services                                  35 0      30 8                                           _DI  GDP
1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           0 4       -8 0      4 2     ISO
Industry                                             -16         12       23      100
Manufacturing                                                                    so          /
Services                                              -0 5      4 0       16
Private consumption                                                                       02   93
General government consumption                       -2 3                            1w 
Gross domestic investment                            -2 S       -0 1     161    -100 
Imports of goods and services                                  27 3       -7 3           -     Exports   - e  Imports
Gross national product                                -1 7       1 1       1 9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



- 58 -
Uzbekistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976      1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%1
(%/ change)                                                                           2.000 -
Consumer prices                                                    54 0      72 0      1so00
Implicit GDP deflator                                              82 0      67 9     1,000
Government finance                                                                     500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       o
Current revenue                                                    33 4      30 2               sz   S3   94   95   se   07
Current budget balance                                              2 6       4 7                     GOP deflator    :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                             -6 5      -1 7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976      1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                               3,534     3,695      5,000
Cotton fiber                                                     1,539     1,390
Gold                                                              906       738      4,000,
Energy                                                            277       528      3,000
Total imports (cif)                                               4,712     4,186     2,000
Food                                                            1,391       873
Fuel and energy                                                    5D        25      1,000
Capital goods                                                   1,548     1202 o
91   92   93   94  g5  50   97
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                      a Exports       Irmports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                -1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                     3,862     3,980      30
Imports of goods and services                                     4,767     4,417
Resource balance                                                   -905      -437      20
Net income                                                          -73      -175      1n
Net current transfers                                                -2        29
Current account balance                                            -980      -583       o1                  94
Financing items (net)                                             1,030     1,063     -10
Changes in net reserves                                             -50      -480     -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                            1,901     1,167
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                                   411       67 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              2,330     2,760
IBRD                                                              155       155                         A:155
IDA                                                                 0         0              G:419              C: 223
Total debt service                                                  289       601      Composltlo                        glions)
IBRD                                                               10        10
IDA                                                                 0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    27        15
Offcial creditors                                                 242        24
Prvate creditors                                                  376       150          F: 948                       :982
Foreign direct investment                                          90       167
Portfolio equity                                                    D         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                                         5        75     A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                       9        13     a - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0     c - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                           9        13
Interest payments                                                  10        10
Net transfers                                                      -1         3
Development Economics                                                                                                     1011/98



Concordance Table
Uzbekistan
Financial Institution Building Project
Agreements Reached and Recommendations in the PAD       Corresponding Section of Legal
Documents
Section C, 4 and Section G I Project implementation arrangements  Section 3.01, (a) and Schedule 5
agreed, including a Project Implementation and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (PISLA) between the Borrower and the CBU
Section G, I The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to  Schedule 5, paragraph 7
ensure that privatization and restructuring of Participating
Banks are carried out effectively and shall ensure that the
Participating Banks extend credit only on a commercial basis in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section G, I The Borrower shall ensure that COM Resolution  Schedule 5, paragraph 8
No. 24 of January  15, 1999 on "Measures for Further
Reforming of the Banking System" remains in full force and
effect until completion of the Project and shall not impose any
restrictions on the freedom of enterprises in using multiple bank
accounts.
Section G, 2 Effectiveness Conditions                     Section 5.01
Annex 7 Financial Management
Section 4.02 (a)
Annex 2 Description of the Project                         Schedule 2
Section G, I The Borrower shall cause the CBU to enter into  Schedule 5, paragraph 5 (a)
participation arrangements, through the PIU, with each of the
Participating Banks for providing technical assistance to them
on a cost recovery basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including the following: (i) each Participating Bank
shall pay the cost of said services within 20 years, including 5
years grace period for payment; (ii) the payment of the cost will
be in the Borrower's local currency and at the CBU's
refinancing rate at time of payment; and (iii) each Participating
Bank shall adopt written lending policies which shall, inter alia,
include a requirement for the concerned Participating Bank to
extend credit on1 a commercial basis in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank.



