Report No. PID7149
Project Name                     Uzbekistan-Financial Institutions Building
Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       UZPE9131
Borrower                         Government of Uzbekistan
Implementing Agency              Central Bank of Uzbekistan
Date this PID Prepared           November 1998
Appraisal Date                   December 1998
Board Date                       April 1999
Country and Sector Background
The Government of Uzbekistan (GOU) has been following a gradualist approach to
reform: although stabilization efforts have been relatively successful,
liberalization of the trade and foreign currency regime has been slow and
erratic. In Fall 1996, partly as a reaction to a particularly poor harvest of
cotton, its main export commodity, the GOU introduced multiple currency
practices, foreign exchange rationing, and trade restrictions. These measures
resulted in the IMF stand-by program approved in December 1995 being declared
off-track.
Uzbekistan's banking system is characterized by three major impediments to
market oriented growth: a high degree of state ownership and influence,
concentration of economic power in one bank, and a historically ineffective
regulatory and supervisory infrastructure. The banking system is also
characterized the overwhelming dominance of the banking sector by one bank -
the National Bank of Uzbekistan (NBU). Originally the Uzbek branch of the
Soviet Bank for Foreign Economic Affairs, the NBU now accounts for over fifty
percent of banking system assets. As in other FSU countries, Uzbekistan has a
weak regulatory and supervisory environment for the banking sector, the barest
elements of international accounting standards, and an insufficient legal
framework to support good banking practices.
Project Description
Technical assistance to selected medium sized banks
The banks that would participate in this technical assistance program would be
selected on the basis of their market orientation, financial strength,
transparency, commitment to take full advantage of the TA opportunities to be
provided, and willingness to attract a strategic foreign investor. The
details of the required TA would be defined on the basis of a diagnostic
review at the commencement of the loan. The diagnostic review, and resulting
TA, would have three primary emphases:
- Strategy and business plan development and implementation: the elements
of a strategy and business plan; assessing the competitive environment;
organizational responsibility for developing strategy and business plan;
related budgeting issues; obtaining internal approval and commitments;
tracking performance vs. plan.



- Internal audit and accounting: organization and reporting structure of
internal audit function; professional and other training requirements of
internal audit staff; policies and procedures for internal audit; accounting
shortcomings that impede effectiveness of internal audit.
- Risk management
a. Asset-liability management: measurement and management of liquidity;
interest rate risk and foreign currency risk; organization and reporting
structure of asset-liability management function; management information
systems.
b. Credit risk management: loan analysis methodology (including short and
long term loans, project finance, etc.); loan approval policies and
procedures; loan documentation, loan booking and billing procedures; loan data
base management; management information systems and reporting; loan monitoring
procedures; problem loan identification and management; management of the loan
portfolio as a portfolio; identification, analysis and management of non-loan
forms of credit risk, such as counter party risk for treasury transactions;
managing consolidated exposure to individual entities, including credit and
other risks.
Technical assistance to UzPromstroibank (PSB)
TA to UzPromstroibank would be preceded by the same type of diagnostic review
as for the small and medium sized banks. Insights gained from in-depth work
currently underway by a PPF-funded credit adviser will also be important for
designing TA for PSB.
The point of providing this TA is to strengthen PSB as it is the only
realistic contender to compete effectively with the NBU. The only other banks
of similar size are the Savings Bank, which is absorbed in its own
reorganization issues, Pakhta Bank (the Cotton Bank), which has not indicated
any interest in TA or related aspects of reform, and Asaka Bank, a special
purpose bank founded in order to finance the Daewoo auto manufacturing plant.
Therefore, if any bank in Uzbekistan will compete with the NBU, it will be
PSB. PSB's client base of large industrial companies also makes it a natural
competitor to the NBU as a partner to foreign banks in project financing
ventures.
Despite its significant state ownership (42.6 percent), the following actions
by PSB's management demonstrate its commitment to taking full advantage of
this TA:
- Independent of its discussions of the proposed TA with the World Bank, PSB
has begun to expand its private sector lending [data needed - GB].
- Also independent of its discussions with the World Bank, PSB has become
more selective with the projects that it has agreed to finance according to
the National Investment Plan.
- PSB has welcomed a full time credit adviser provided by the World Bank and
has involved him in all aspects of the bank's activities.
- PSB has implemented a policy of full transparency in its work with the
World Bank credit adviser and other World Bank representatives.
- 2 -



- PSB has hired KPMG to advise it on its long term strategy. It has also
stated its willingness to pay for part of the FIBL TA if necessary.
- PSB has obtained shareholder approval to sell a blocking minority share in
the bank to a strategic investor.
- PSB has written to the Prime Minister to obtain confirmation of no
objection from the GOU to an investment in PSB by a strategic investor.
Technical assistance for the banking system overall
The diversity of Uzbekistan's banking system requires that successful in-depth
technical assistance be focused on select banks that have demonstrated an
ability and willingness to take full advantage of that TA. These banks will
serve both as a model to other banks and as an impetus to more market oriented
competition. However, it is also important for the overall growth and
strengthening of the system to provide TA that will benefit all banks. One
such form of TA will be additional support for the Central Bank's program to
certify bank auditors. This program would be applicable for both internal and
external bank auditors, thereby effectively addressing risk management,
transparency and supervision issues. It is anticipated that the in-depth TA
with selected banks will also identify other banking sector wide issues that
could be addressed by this component as they arise.
Sustainability
The key mechanism for the sustainability of this project is the development of
increased competition in the Uzbek banking sector that will result from the TA
program and the attraction of foreign strategic investors. This strengthened
competitive environment will take on a momentum of its own, as other banks
seek strategic partners and as bank clients increasingly take advantage of the
growing opportunities to be selective about their banking services. A
stronger banking sector will also become an independent lobby for further
institutional reform.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
- Financial sector reform is a process and requires a long-term time horizon.
For this reason, it is best to institute the institution-building component of
reform as early as possible.
- Instilling a high degree of ownership in the Government is the most
critical success factor in TA operations. Senior management in participating
banks must also be committed to institutional development.
- Twinning local banks with foreign banks in the transition economies has
proven to be a powerful and efficient mechanism ensuring an effective and
rapid transfer of know-how, setting up the stage for cross-border banking
relationships, and contributing to a sustained and prompt enhancement of
banking standards.
- Any TA in the form of equipment or computerization must be accompanied by
strong institution-building elements and hands-on assistance in order to
maximize the utility of the procured goods.
- Intensive supervision by the World Bank is necessary, particularly at the
early stages of implementation.
-3-



The project concept of the FIBL has internalized all of the above issues. The
proposed TA project has been designed to provide the building blocks for long
term financial sector reform by providing assistance to the CBU as well as
enhancing competition in the banking sector. All major players in the GOU
(CBU, MOF, MOE, COM, and the PSB itself) have been involved in every phase of
project design.
Poverty Category
N/A
Environmental Aspects
As this project is primarily a TA operation focusing on the financial sector,
there is no direct environmental impact. It has, therefore, been placed in
Category C.
Program Objective Categories
The proposed project strongly supports the Bank's program objective of a
policy framework conducive to macroeconomic stability, and to private sector
development. A strong financial sector with competitive banks is the
foundation for stability and the source of the growth of the private sector.
Financing
The project costs will be US$15,500
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Itzhak Goldberg
Program Team Leader
Room H6-033
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Phone:   (202) 473-6289
Fax:   (202) 522-0078
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 11, 1998.
- 4 -



