                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 29410

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (SCL-44790 TF-25678 PPFB-P3110)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.0 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

                                             FOR A

                        FINANCIAL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT




                                         June 22, 2004




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
ECSPF
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Som
                                 1 Som = US$ 0.0009
                                 US$ 1 = 1012 Som

                               FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1   - June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     -        Asian Development Bank
ARA     -        Asset Restructuring Agency
BBP     -        Bureau for Bank Privatization
CAS     -        Country Assistance Strategy
CBU     -        Central Bank of Uzbekistan
EBRD    -        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERL     -        Enterprise Reform Loan
FIBL    -        Financial Institution Building Loan
FSDA    -        Financial Sector Development Agency
FSR     -        Financial Sector Review
GDP     -        Gross Domestic Product
GOU     -        Government of Uzbekistan
IAS     -        International Accounting Standards
IBRD    -        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MIS     -        Management of Information Systems
MOF     -        Ministry of Finance
MTR     -        Mid-Term Review
NBU     -        National Bank of Uzbekistan
NPA     -        Non-Performing Assets
PAD     -        Project Appraisal Document
PCD     -        Project Concept Document
PIU     -        Project Implementation Unit
PPF     -        Project Preparation Facility
QAE     -        Quality at Entry
QAG     -        Quality Assurance Group
SMEs    -        Small and Medium Enterprises
SWOT    -        Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats
TF      -        Trust Fund
USAID   -        United States Agency for International Development

                        Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director       Dennis de Tray
                       Sector Director      Fernando Montes-Negret
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Ulrich Hewer

                                        UZBEKISTAN
                             Financial Institution Building Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P009131                                                  Project Name: Financial Institution Building
Team Leader: Ulrich Albert Hewer                                     TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Financial Institution Building                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-44790; TF-25678;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P3110
   Country/Department: UZBEKISTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (50%); Central government administration (32%); Payment
                            systems, securities clearance and settlement (18%)
                  Theme: Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Corporate governance
                            (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); Standards and financial
                            reporting (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/18/1998                                     Effective: 08/18/1999                08/18/1999
     Appraisal: 02/12/1999                                         MTR:                             09/20/2002
      Approval: 05/27/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/CENTRAL BANK OF UZBEKISTAN;
                                           REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; REPUBLIC OF
                                           UZBEKISTAN/CABINET OF MINISTERS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Lynn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Ishrat Husain
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Lajos Bokros
Team Leader at ICR:             Ulrich Hewer                                   Itzhak Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:             Ulrich Hewer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the FIBL were to:

l Improve the corporate governance and management capacity of state owned commercial banks in
    preparation for their privatization over the long term;

l Increase competition between commercial banks and boost efficiency and innovation of the banking
    system; and

l Improve prudential regulations and strengthen the supervisory capacity of the Central Bank of
    Uzbekistan (CBU), including better reporting capacity by the commercial banks.

Background

Contrary to many other transition countries, Uzbekistan's transformation and reform process has been
gradual. Continued allocation of resources to enterprises and use of state owned banks by the Government
rather than relying predominantly on market incentives resulted in a softer disruption of production and
investment. While this appeared to be preferable to a more drastic decline in GDP and employment
observed in other transition countries, Uzbekistan's slow transformation failed to highlight fundamental
structural constraints in both the enterprise and banking sectors, which continue to be dominated by state
ownership.

In the second half of the 1990s, Uzbekistan's banking sector had not yet undergone much change from the
situation prevailing under the Soviet system. Enterprises were allowed to have only one bank account in
one bank, an exhaustive system of credit controls was applied by the Central Bank and the currency was
not convertible. During 1998-2000, the Government decided to pursue bank reform more seriously. In
1998, the concept of bank governance was introduced by awarding shareholders a supervisory function
which became important both with regard to changes that took place in the operations of the old Soviet-type
banks and to the creation of new private banks. In 1999, enterprises were allowed to open multiple bank
accounts, and in 1998/1999 the Central Bank's supervisory and regulatory capacity was strengthened with
the help of a USAID grant. In 1999, a law on annual mandatory external auditing was adopted, and in
2000 some 100 regulations regarding credit to enterprises and individuals were abolished and replaced by a
single credit policy guideline.

An IMF stand-by program, signed in December 1995, went off-track in November 1996 when the
Government introduced multiple currency practices and foreign exchange rationing. An Enterprise Reform
Loan (ERL), and a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) had been on hold since 1996. In 1997 a
Financial Sector Review (FSR) provided an impetus for a new reform strategy. Preparation of the FSAL
continued after 1996, financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of USD 1.2 million; the latter
prepared the basis for a legal and regulatory framework for the banking sector.

The design of the FIBL in 1998 and early 1999 was part of this overall reform environment. It aimed at
implementing the recommendations of the PPF as well as other preparatory work.




                                                     - 2 -

Assessment of Project Objectives

In addition to supporting the banks' independent operations, increasing the level of competition, and
improving the financial and management capacity of Uzbekistan's banking sector, the FIBL also sought to
prepare banks for privatization and to eventually attract strategic foreign investors as private owners of key
banks in the long-term. These objectives had been identified by the Government and the Bank in the 1998
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). They were consistent with the Government's gradual approach to
financial sector reform through creation of an adequate legal and regulatory framework for financial
intermediation, and development of the sector's technical and institutional capacity.

This reform scenario was part of the Government's overall declared commitment to substantial market
reforms. Financial sector reform was considered a priority, both for allocating resources with the help of a
modern banking system and for achieving currency convertibility. In mid-1998, the President issued a
degree announcing the intention to achieve current account convertibility by 2000, according to a graduated
schedule.

At the time of preparing the FIBL, it was expected that the reforms would proceed at a faster pace than
they actually have. While the Bank's intention was to assist the authorities in building up the banking
sector's technical capacity which subsequently could serve as a basis for a more fundamental follow up
liberalization of Uzbekistan's banking sector, the Government, the Central Bank in particular, appeared to
have expected a restructuring of the banks' non-performing portfolios under the Loan. This discrepancy
existed throughout the project implementation period.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There were no revisions of project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

Component A: Institutional strengthening of the six participating banks (UzPromstroybank,
UzZhilsberbank, Asaka Bank, Hamkor Bank, Ipak Yuli Bank and Pakhta Bank)

The program aimed at improving bank management, operations and strategy, planning (strategic planning
process and variance analysis; bank organizational structure and strategy for management of branches),
treasury risk management (liquidity risk management; asset-liability management, interest rate risk
management, FX risk management, especially derivatives such as forwards and swaps and budgeting)
financial and credit risk management (written credit policies and procedures; loan analysis methodology
and approval procedures; loan structuring and documentation; loan booking and billing procedures;
database management and reporting; loan review; loan monitoring; problem loan identification and
management; management of the loan portfolio; identification, analysis and management of non-loan forms
of credit risk, such as counter party risk for treasury transactions, and securities evaluation and investment
policy), accounting and internal audits (compliance with the Central Bank internal audit and International
Accounting Standards (IAS) of the International Accounting Standards Committee), and management
information systems (MIS) (capacity accounting and MIS to provide timely, accurate, and complete
information; internal accounting organization, reporting structure, policies and procedures; internal
auditing organization, reporting structure, policies and procedures).




                                                      - 3 -

Component B: Institutional Strengthening of Commercial Banks (sector wide)

The first sub-component consisted of training to commercial banks to improve their operational capabilities
in key areas, including risk management, formulation of lending policies, automated credit analysis, internal
auditing and bank accounting under the IAS. Under the second sub-component, technical assistance in
external audits, in conformity with the IAS, was provided to selected commercial banks.

Component C: Improvement of the Legal Framework

This component aimed at strengthening the legal, regulatory and supervisory capacity of the Central Bank
through implementation of the recommendations made under the Final Report dated July 31, 1998,
prepared for the Central Bank under a PPF advance and through other priority reforms, including
implementation of prudential regulatory norms, assessment of bank credit policies, foreign exchange
trading, risk control and management, support for the implementation of the legal reforms, and provision of
training of Central Bank staff, and training and advisory services to commercial banks.

Component D: Strengthening of the Financial Sector Information System

This component aimed at building or upgrading a core MIS model for commercial banks to strengthen
management of liquidity and risk within commercial banks and to provide assistance to make necessary
changes in the bank operations. The payment system was to be upgraded through interbank clearing and
settlement on a net basis at the bank level, centralization of the settlement process, and the introduction of
the real time gross settlement system (RTGS). The component included the improvement of the
telecommunication network to ensure the effectiveness of the MIS and payment systems. In order to
protect banking and bank-related information it was planned to develop a protective system in line with the
MIS model and to improve the telecommunications network. This system was to be offered to all the
commercial banks and other users.

Component E:              Bank Privatization and Restructuring

Under this component, assistance was provided to help organize the banks' asset restructuring process,
including the provision of legal advice, to help implement pre-privatization measures in the various banks,
and to attract strategic foreign investors. The outcome of the technical assistance provided, together with
the declared strong commitment to financial sector reform by the Government, was expected to serve as a
basis for the design of a financial sector adjustment operation.

Component F:              Institutional Strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)

This component aimed at strengthening the PIU through the provision of services for the management,
administration, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including salaries of local
personnel, office rental and furniture, utility services, audit, procurement, financial management, office
supplies, computers, other office equipment and vehicles, and operation and maintenance.

3.4 Revised Components:

Because of the close links and overlapping activities among components A, B, and C (technical assistance
to selected banks, sector wide technical assistance to banks and regulatory and supervisory capacity
building at the Central Bank), the Borrower and the Bank decided to combine these three components and
to have one procurement package for all activities anticipated under them. Only the external audits for



                                                     - 4 -

commercial banks in compliance with IAS for 1999 through 2002 were excluded from this package. They
were procured under a separate procurement package.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

At the ICR stage Quality at Entry (QAE) was rated satisfactory. The project concept and objectives
responded to Borrower's development priorities and were consistent with the 1998 CAS. The components
were appropriate and specific as they represented a follow-up to the work carried out under the PPF. At
the end of the implementation period it is clear that the project design described in the PAD had correctly
identified the eventual problem areas: possible inability to decrease market concentration through the sales
of the large banks, especially the National Bank of Uzbekistan (NBU), Asaka Bank and Pakhta Bank.
Some divestiture of ownership took place in seven smaller banks.

According to the September 2002 assessment of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), most components
were found to be proceeding satisfactorily. The Bank team was given credit for skillfully supervising and
monitoring a complex TA project. Concern was expressed about the slow progress towards bank
privatization and the building of a financial sector information system (Component D): by the end of the
project progress had been made towards the latter, while only partial progress had been achieved in selling
government shares in state owned banks to foreign investors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The FIBL achieved its objectives of (i) raising the commercial banks' management and governance
capacity, (ii) increasing competition among them and (iii) enhancing the Central Bank's supervisory
capacity. A better flow of information and internal controls and audits have contributed to a significantly
improved bank governance , though independent decision making of state owned banks, which still
dominate the country's financial system, needs to be further strengthened. Uzbekistan's banks are now
much better equipped to operate under market conditions. This represents a significant achievement in a
reform environment where market incentives and institutions continue to have only a limited impact on
decisions about investment, production and consumption.

Implementation of the project's technical assistance components (Components A-D and F) is therefore
rated highly satisfactory.

The technical training absorbed by the banks and the institution building that has taken place under the
project would, however, have had an even bigger impact on enhancing the banks' intermediation role if it
had been provided to banks in the process of being privatized and after freeing them from performing
non-bank functions, such as tax collection, i.e. if the Government had pursued bank privatization more
rigorously and in parallel reduced its overall role in the financial sector.

The project also aimed at preparing banks for privatization and decreasing market concentration by
privatizing state owned banks with the help of strategic investors. Some divestiture in state owned banks
took place, but the discussions about prospective bank privatizations, those between the authorities and
EBRD about the privatization of Asaka bank ( pilot bank for privatization) in particular, could not be
concluded successfully.

Implementation of the Component E has therefore been rated only partially satisfactory.




                                                      - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Components A-C:

Part A: Institutional strengthening of participating banks (TA to 6 Commercial Banks -
UzPromstroybank, UzZhilsberbank, Asaka Bank, Hamkor Bank, and Ipak Yuli Bank and Pakhta
Bank). The aim of this component was to improve the management, financial performance and
attractiveness to strategic foreign investors of participating banks. Originally, the component included five
banks, but on its own request Pakhta Bank was included as the sixth bank.            Technical assistance was
provided in: (i) strategy and business planning; (ii) credit risk management; (iii) accounting, MIS and
internal audit; and (iv) treasury risk management. The technical assistance was provided on a cost recovery
basis and at the request of the participating banks.

The overall quality of the results achieved under this component depended on both the individual
consultants involved and the level of commitment exhibited by the recipient banks. The performance of
each consultant and of each counterpart in every bank was closely monitored by FSDA, with monthly
overall reviews by FSDA Council.

l Strategy and Business Planning. The following areas were covered: (i) the organizational structure
    specific to each bank was designed and approved; (ii) the strategic plans for the years 2001-2005,
    business plans and financial forecasts for the years of 2001-2002 were prepared to achieve established
    goals; (iii) training on design of the strategic and business plans, including financial planning, was
    delivered to the management of banks and their branches; and (iv) a system to monitor on a monthly
    basis the strategic and business plans was developed. The participating banks considered the TA
    received under this sub-component successful. The level of commitment by top bank management
    varied, however, among the participating bank.
l Credit Risk Management. The following activities were carried out: (i) an analysis of loan portfolio
    was conducted and recommendations on improvement of credit portfolio status, including
    diversification of the portfolio was provided; (ii) new credit policy and lending procedures for each
    bank subject to its specific character were developed and approved; (iii) based on the consultants'
    recommendations the banks in their organizational structures included a new credit risks management
    division; and (iv) a number of seminars and workshops on analysis of financial performance of
    potential borrowers were delivered. The TA was considered successful because of the quality of the
    consultant and the strong commitment of the lead counterparts. Banks confirmed that their credit
    policies, now internally developed on the basis of the consultant's recommendations and the Central
    Bank's guidelines, include a requirement to extend a credit on a commercial basis in accordance with
    criteria acceptable to the World Bank.
l Treasury Risk Management. The TA covered: (i) new treasury policy and procedures were developed
    and applied; (ii) GAP-analysis of commercial banks' assets and liabilities was conducted jointly with
    the banks employees; (iii) recommendations on the treasury organizational structure and pricing policy
    were provided; (iv) suggestions on applying new banking products to reduce the liquidity risk in banks
    were given; and (v) a series of workshops on allocation of banks' free resources were delivered. The
    TA provided met expectations of the banks in the sense that the banks learned the fundamentals of this
    new discipline.
l Accounting, Internal Audit & MIS. The following TA was provided: (i) accounting policies and
    procedures conforming to international accounting standards, were developed and applied; (ii) detailed
    analysis for the improvement of banks' management information system were conducted; (iii) new
    internal audit policies and procedures were developed; (iv) seminars and workshops on accounting
    policies were delivered to the management of banks and their branch managers. The TA provided was


                                                      - 6 -

    well received by the participating banks, which have incorporated most of the recommendations in their
    day-to-day operations.

Part B: Institutional Strengthening of Commercial Banks (sector wide TA to all Banks)

Training was provided in four areas: (a) IAS accounting; (b) internal audit & controls; (c) automated credit
analysis; and (d) MIS.

External audits were conducted for banks from 1999 through 2002 in compliance with IAS. The TA was
delivered successfully. The following activities were carried out under the various sub-components:

l The IAS accounting adviser focused on developing and presenting training materials and seminars
    with a focus on the interpretation and application of IAS. He organized seminars to over 140
    participants representing 17 commercial banks and specialists from the Central Bank.                The
    contribution of this adviser was highly rated by all participants.
l The internal audit and control adviser organized workshops for 130 participants from 18 banks and
    74 specialists from the Central Bank. He conducted sample internal audits of one unit/division in each
    of 11 banks. The audits demonstrated, on a sample basis, the practical application of the theoretical
    aspects of internal audit and controls presented in several prior workshops. Workshops and on the job
    training were highly acclaimed by the participants. Pre-training testing and post-training exams and
    certifications demonstrated that the level of comprehension was highly satisfactory. All banks involved
    in this sub-component acknowledged the value of the training received.
l The computerized credit analysis adviser organized and conducted pilot training programs in three
    selected banks before launching a full scale training program. The objective was to test the material
    prepared through three-day training seminars, to make live demonstrations on PCs of the two programs
    of credit analysis developed in accordance with the new IAS corporate accounting format (historical
    spreadsheets and forecast model) and to collect feedback from the participants. The adviser conducted
    seminars for more than 290 participants from 13 commercial banks and specialists from the Central
    Bank.
l Provision of external audit services for selected banks in conformity with IAS. Implementation of
    this task, explicitly requested by the Central Bank at appraisal stage, was most successful. Eight banks
    were selected for 1999, ten for 2000 and twelve for 2001. Each bank was audited three consecutive
    years under the project. For 2002, audits of three banks were financed from the project while the other
    nine banks financed the audits from their own resources. For each bank, the first audit carried out was
    in long format and was recognized by banks' managements as particularly useful. Detailed management
    letters were issued and implementation of their recommendations closely followed up. The external
    audits financed under Part B of the Project revealed over the years a marked reduction of the gap
    initially observed between the level of provisions as reported in the call reports sent to the Central
    Bank and the provisions recommended by the independent auditors. These audits provided access to
    international audit firms otherwise unaffordable to several banks.        Management letters and the
    comments made by banks'managements on the auditors' recommendations showed an increased
    awareness of the importance of internal audit and controls in the banks. The funding provided for the
    audits to the participating banks was on a reimbursable basis. Overall, this component was rated as
    highly satisfactory by all participating banks, including the Central Bank.
l The MIS advisers were initially to assist the Central Bank on the development of a MIS toolkit under
    Part D of the Project. The Central Bank reconsidered this matter in mid-2001 and decided not to
    develop this toolkit but rather to add a MIS aspect to an overall upgrade of banking operational
    software developed in 1997 and used by most banks. Several banks financed this upgrade under
    individual contracts with software houses, i.e. without financial involvement of the Central Bank as


                                                     - 7 -

     originally foreseen under Part D of the Loan.



Part C: Improvement of Banking Legal Framework (TA to CBU)

This component supported: (a) legal reforms; and (b) foreign exchange management. The delivery of TA
for the latter was postponed until completion of the process of foreign exchange market liberalization.
Regarding legal matters, work focused on four areas: (i) non-judicial foreclosure on non-movable property;
(ii) bank liquidations; (iii) bank holding companies; and (iv) non-bank credit institutions. Recommendations
and proposals on changing the laws on regulating the banks' liquidation process, collateral lending,
ensuring non-judicial foreclosure provision for non-movable property, establishment and operation of bank
holdings were submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. Legislation on non-banking financial institutions were
reviewed and a new law on Credit Unions was adopted in April 2002. Recommendations on establishing
consolidated supervision of bank holdings were drafted, and amendments to the Law on the Central Bank
adopted in December 2002. Twelve draft regulations on banking accounting were subsequently reviewed
under the FIBL, 9 of which were approved by the Board of the Central Bank and the others are being
adopted with assistance and funding of USAID. The law on deposit insurance was passed in 2002. Bank
salaries were deregulated, allowing banks to pay more attractive salaries.

Component D: Strengthening of Financial Sector Information System

This component supported four activities:        (i) strengthening the MIS to support decisions of bank
managers; (ii) upgrading the payment system; (iii) establishment of a global security system to safeguard
the commercial banks' data transfer network, and (iv) improving performance of telecommunications in
support of MIS and payment systems. During implementation, the Central Bank informed the Bank that it
intended to finance from its own resources items (i), (ii) and (iii). Item (iv) was financed under the FIBL.
The financial sector information system, including upgrading of the payment system, information security
system, telecommunication network and management information system of the banking sector, has been
significantly improved. Rather than dealing with over 1,000 commercial bank accounts at the start of the
FIBL, the Central Bank now supervises only the 32 head bank accounts. All district branches are connected
to their head offices on an on-line basis, and commercial banks are testing single unified balance sheets. All
software used by the commercial banks has been licensed by the Central Bank. The improved telecom
network has resulted in a substantial reduction of transaction time and operating costs. The payment
system, which has accelerated dramatically compared to the situation that prevailed under the Soviet
system, the liquidity and risk management as well as overall bank management has considerably
strengthened commercial banks' operations and professional independence. During preparatory work for
the FIBL under the PPF, a foreign advisory group suggested to create a `reserve and archive center'
outside the Central Bank, and USD $1 million had been earmarked for its creation under the FIBL. After
further discussions, it was decided to create such center within the Central Bank, which then became
responsible for implementing this component. The Central Bank expects the software to be ready by
end-August 2004 and the tender to buy the hardware is expected to be announced shortly.
Telecommunications specialists from the Central Bank and the Main Information Center have undergone
training in a leading center in Moscow and been certified to maintain the telecommunications equipment.

The progress achieved under Component D is impressive. In order to consolidate and preserve it, it will be
important to maintain the technical readiness of the system's various elements and ensure its full
functioning in line with its intended purpose.




                                                     - 8 -

Component E: Bank Privatization and Restructuring

This component aimed at: (a) creation of the Bureau for Bank Privatization (BBP), established under the
Ministry of Finance, and putting in place its organizational and operational structure; (b) elaboration of
recommendations for changes in legislation and economic regulation for facilitating bank privatization; (c)
analysis of operations and financial conditions of banks selected for privatization and making
recommendations for specific changes (restructuring) to facilitate the privatization, including asset
restructuring and transfer; and (d) selection of investment banks to financial advisory position, negotiations
with financial advisors and potential investors as well as overall implementation and follow up of the
privatization process.

While the institution building aspect of this component has been largely achieved, asset restructuring and
attracting strategic investors to privatize state owned banks has been only partially successful. Several
important steps were taken: establishment of the BBP, preparation of a general pre-privatization evaluation
of participating banks by the BBP which included a Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats
(SWOT) analysis, introduction of a standard framework for financial analysis, a medium-term projection, a
basic evaluation of stocks/shares and bank privatization seminars and "road shows" in Budapest
(December 2001) and Tashkent (March 2003), sale of UzZhilsberbank's shares to a foreign investor,
decrease of government stakes in 9 commercial banks (Zaminbank, Tadbirkorbank, Trustbank and others),
including sale of all government shares in 7 banks. But actual bank privatization to strategic foreign
investors has not yet taken place.

l Concerning (a), an organizational chart and procedural rules for the BBP were created. Job
    descriptions for each position were included in a code of conduct. The Government completed in
    February 2001 the legislation on the Bureau with a decree establishing its legal status.

l Under (b), a report on the banking sector was prepared in December 2003; it included a review of the
    non-performing loan situation. The report has not been shared with the Bank because the Government
    considers the information contained in it confidential.

l Regarding (c) and (d), a general pre-privatization evaluation was prepared for all banks earmarked for
    privatization, indicating obstacles to privatization and suggesting facilitating measures. Specifically,
    four banks were considered for privatization: Asaka Bank, Pakhta Bank, NBU and UzZhilsberbank.

In mid-2000, a draft resolution for the creation of an Asset Restructuring Agency (ARA) was submitted to
the Cabinet of Ministers by the BBP. The Government did, however, not consider it useful to proceed with
the actual establishment of an ARA because no funds were available for dealing with the banks'
non-performing loans. Instead, the BBP was entrusted with preparing a proposal on how to best address
asset restructuring. The Bureau identified bank assets that would need to be restructured, analyzed critical
systemic issues and developed viable and operationally sound restructuring options. They were updated in
2001. In March 2003, a working group to restructure bank assets, consisting of representatives from the
Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance as well as a number of commercial banks, was established which
worked with the banks individually on restructuring issues. However, due to the continued lack of funds
required to solve the asset restructuring problem, no operational follow-up took place.

The slow progress towards actual strategic bank privatization seems to be due to a combination of a
number of factors: (i) the Government's reluctance to give up control of banks and large enterprises or
sectors it considers strategically important; (ii) an unfavorable investment climate resulting in insufficient
interest on the part of potential strategic investors; (iii) significant delay in moving towards currency


                                                      - 9 -

convertibility and the devaluation of the Sum of some 700 percent during project implementation; and (iv)
inexperience of the authorities with the process of internationally practiced negotiations with potential
investors.

After the delivery of technical assistance had been completed, the Bank suggested in late 2003 to the
authorities to re-start and accelerate bank privatization. This would have included addressing the problem
of non-performing loans in the banks. After further discussions, the Government and the Bank agreed to
advance the FIBL closing date by three months to March 31, 2004 and cancel the undisbursed funds.

Component F: Institutional Strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)

This component strengthened management, administration, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
the FIBL with the help of a strong PIU (FSDA). The latter benefited and absorbed extensive technical
assistance and was instrumental for the successful implementation of the project. The project's target were
met by the FSDA, and procurement and financial management activities were carried out in a highly
professional manner. Project audits were unqualified.

Other Achievements

In addition to the outcome described above, the following achievements are the result of the dialogue
between the Borrower and the Bank conducted during preparation and implementation of the FIBL:

l Commercial banks continued to issue share capital during the life of the Project, but large individual
    equity stakes progressively decreased as recommended by the Bank at appraisal stage. No bank is
    allowed to participate in the capital of other banks, except foreign investors in joint-ventures;

l The possibility for enterprises to open multiple bank accounts, also agreed at appraisal stage, was
    introduced and progressively extended to all enterprises with more competition developing between
    banks to attract business of large companies;

l The audits financed under Component B extended to banks outside those participating in Component
    A. They reveal general trends perhaps not directly connected to the Project but worthwhile mentioning:
    (i) progressive de-specialization of the sectoral banks with efforts by all banks to develop private sector
    lending, especially to SMEs. Tax incentives provided by the Government may have facilitated this
    move; (ii) reallocation of the deposits of the banks from sight to term deposits, providing more stable
    funding of the loan portfolios; (iii) development of the retail deposit base, still modest but growing; (iv)
    emergence of a limited interbank market; (v) reduction of investments of the banks in enterprise share
    capitals with concomitant start of provisions in case of impairment of the latter; (vi) better
    understanding of the importance of the cash flow statement and its interpretation; and (vii) better
    understanding and application of IAS with respect to the true financial position of the banks;

l Commercial banks are now using International Accounting Standards (IAS), with the exception of
    standard 29 relating to high inflation, which is expected to be applied by the end of 2004. Also,
    standard 39 relating to tax issues has not yet been worked out;

l Close collaboration with banks designated for privatization resulted in a better understanding and
    addressing of the relevant issues, including the requirements of potential strategic investors by bank
    managers, in particular of effective capital and earnings parameters, treatment of risk exposure both in
    shareholders structures and credit portfolios;


                                                     - 10 -

l Identification and follow up on guaranteed loan evaluation and treatment procedures, non-banking
    activities, high risk exposures and guarantee issuance policies resulted in regulatory updates by the
    Central Bank and Ministry of Finance, and practical measures in the banks; the need for a more
    effective management of government stakes in commercial banks triggered the establishment of an
    appropriate unit in the Ministry of Finance;

l High-level corporate governance, internal audit, and financial management seminars were organized
    for senior executives and board members of all banks with excellent results demonstrated by numerous
    enquiries. A seminar for senior managers on `banking sector reform, restructuring and management'
    was organized by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in collaboration with the BBP;

l In addition and beyond activities foreseen under component C, seminars for over 600 specialists of
    commercial banks were conducted with the assistance of the Central Bank. The accounting function in
    the Central Bank has been re-organized by the establishment of a new special division within the
    Accounting Department of the Central Bank which has sole responsibility and authority for the
    development, maintenance, interpretation, and dissemination of accounting policy for commercial
    banks, as recommended in the Aide Memoire of a recent supervision mission of the Bank;

l Special credit units in the commercial banks are dealing with their non-performing assets.


l The banking report prepared under Component E provided the Government with useful and relevant
    information.

l The Central Bank benefited considerably from the discussions with the World Bank and USAID about
    asset restructuring and privatization of banks.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project had a significant institutional development impact.         Tailored TA was provided to six
participating banks and TA covering important banking issues and requirements was provided to 17 banks
and the Central Bank. The latter's supervisory capacity has been enhanced. A Bureau for Bank
Privatization was established and its staff trained. The FIBL has contributed to better coordination between
the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank and within the Government with regard to financial sector
reform.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The events of September 11, 2001 and the war in Afghanistan adversely affected the investment climate in
Central Asia, rendering Uzbekistan less attractive for potential investors.



                                                     - 11 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government, through the issuance of two separate resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministers respectively
in November 1999 and March 2000, complied with the project's objectives of institutional strengthening of
commercial banks. These measures increased the degree of liberalization of the banking sector by
improving corporate governance and management capacity, banking legal framework, information
technology, accounting, and supervisory capacity of the Central Bank.

The Government's commitment to the project was a critical factor in the satisfactory implementation of the
financial institution building element. Overall, however, commitment to bank privatization was rather
weak. The practice of directed credit appears to have stopped at the end of 2001, though banks at times
find themselves under pressure to lend to specific sectors. According to a government resolution in 2003,
government guarantees have been limited. The system of IAS is largely in place and the Central Bank's
supervisory capacity is adequate.

The mission was informed that recently a new reform program for the banking sector has been announced
by the authorities. It would aim of reducing direct and indirect state ownership in banks, liberalizing the
banking system further by improving monetary policy implementation, phasing out commercial banks'
control on the public's cash holdings, removal of the role banks play in tax collection as well as further
improvements in bank supervision.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The FSDA was staffed with competent people and the project was managed effectively. The project
components under the control of the FSDA were completed on time and under budget. Quarterly financial
management and progress reports were submitted and procurement activities were carried out following
Bank guidelines and no problems were encountered. Throughout the project, the FSDA was in close
contact with the Bank team and kept the Bank informed of all on-going activities on a timely basis.

5.4 Costs and financing:

By the end of March 2004, the total of disbursed funds amounted to $15.02 million and undisbursed funds
to $9.98 million of the $25 million loan. The undisbursed funds are a result of: (i) savings derived from
the non-establishment of an Asset Restructuring Agency and non-retention of a financial consultant
(investment bank) ; (ii) the only insignificant use of resources for the retention of privatization advisors;
(iii) lower than projected cost of the TA; and (iv) the deletion/combining of some components under
institutional strengthening of the banks. Combining components A, B and C under one component resulted
in lower contract values. The undisbursed amount of $9.98 million was cancelled on March 31, 2004, and
a revised amortization schedule has been transmitted to the authorities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Achievements under the project are expected to be highly sustainable. To a large extent, this is due to (a)
the payment by the participating banks for the technical assistance provided to them; and (b) the latter's
active involvement in the selection of consultants and monitoring of their work.

USAID has also provided training in areas such as supervisory capacity, bank asset restructuring and



                                                    - 12 -

governance to the Central Bank which has complemented and re-inforced the impact of the assistance
provided under the FIBL. In the meantime and in a follow-up to the FIBL, banks have established internal
training centers to coach their staff on an on-going basis. The external audits undertaken under the project
are now being funded by the banks themselves and the latter are using their audit firms as consultants -
signaling strong ownership of these reforms. In the last few years, several banks have been awarded lines of
credit by EBRD, ADB, the Chinese's Ex-Im Bank and the World Bank, which will help reinforce the
relevant learning experience acquired under the FIBL.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The TA provided to the participating banks has been absorbed to improve the day-to-day operations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's overall performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project corresponded correctly to the country priorities as identified in the CAS. The
Borrower and the Bank pursued systematically the reform measures identified resulting in a significant
improvement in the performance of the commercial banks and the Central Bank. The Bank was, however,
unsuccessful in assisting the authorities in attracting investors for privatizing banks. The provision of
substantial technical assistance to the commercial banks and the Central Bank proved to be an inadequate
tool for bringing about policy changes and political decisions that are essential for a successful sale of state
owned banks to strategic private investors. Attracting such potential buyers became even more difficult in
the wake of the events of September 11, 2001.

7.2 Supervision:

Project supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out regularly and included the
involvement of bank experts and the local staff who constantly monitored the project activities. The QAG
assessment stated that the Bank team deserved considerable credit for skillfully supervising this complex
TA project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Following completion of the PPF, the Government requested the FIBL because it understood that the
implementation of the proposed reform measures would be essential for a successful development of
Uzbekistan's financial sector and economic development. During the preparation phase, the Government
demonstrated strong commitment to the proposed project's objectives and announced its intention to
implement key financial reforms. The Government's involvement in the preparation of the PPF, active
participation in the design of the project, and the designation of the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank
as a counterpart to the Bank's FIBL team, were taken as an indication of a strong commitment and augured
well for a successful implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                    - 13 -

The Government's commitment to banking reforms was critical to the successful delivery and
implementation of the technical assistance. While implementation of certain measures had initially been
slow - delays were encountered in modernizing accounting, enhancing bank supervisory capacity, phasing
out government guarantees and reducing/eliminating directed lending - the authorities have been able to
accelerate implementation in all areas. As a result, the performance of Uzbekistan's banking sector has
significantly improved.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the FSDA was excellent throughout project implementation. Its administrative
capacity, coupled with close supervision and monitoring of the progress made under each component, was
exemplary.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l Strong and continued Borrower commitment to the project objectives during implementation was
    critical to a successful project outcome.

l Payment for part of the TA provided to the participating banks contributed to a reinforced ownership
    of the project objectives.

l Although the project was designed carefully and potential risks identified correctly (e.g., weak
    Borrower commitment to bank privatization and resulting lack of interest by the foreign strategic
    investors), insufficient attention had been given, both by the Bank and the Government, to addressing
    the emerging discrepancies and constraints during project implementation.

l Implementation of the Loan raised questions about the ultimate effectiveness of the technical assistance
    provided and the probability of successful privatization of banks while state owned enterprises continue
    to dominate the economy.

l The technical assistance delivered could have been even more effective if the consultants (i) had been
    more familiar with local practices and circumstances and (ii) they had been more actively involved in
    implementing their recommendations. In a TA project such as the FIBL these two requirements would
    need to be part of the consultants' terms of reference.

l A well-functioning PIU ( the FSDA and the BBP in this case) staffed with competent and committed
    people, fairly remunerated and trained is essential for a successful implementation of a
    multi-component and complex project such as the FIBL.

l The Bank and the counterparts used a flexible approach to design and implement best practice
    solutions. Combining components 1, 2 and 3 under one component resulted in significantly lower
    contract values and costs.

l Although the FIBL task management changed over the course of the life of the project, key staff



                                                    - 14 -

    supervised the project during the whole implementation period. This continuity contributed to the
    success of the project.

l Although privatization of the banks was not an objective under the FIBL, the latter provided a platform
    to conduct a dialogue on bank privatization. However, a TA project cannot serve as a vehicle for
    addressing difficult policy issues such as privatization of state banks or enterprises. A policy based
    adjustment operation would be required to support such fundamental systemic reforms.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                              Summary Implementation Completion Report
       For Financial Institution Building Project under Assistance of the International Bank for
                                     Reconstruction and Development


Actions during the project

Presently all project objectives have been generally achieved with success.

In order to acquire quality services and utilize the borrowed funds efficiently and optimally, the project
components related to technical assistance have been implemented in a unified manner.

At all commercial banks covered by the TA component, foreign consultants have rendered assistance in
strategic and business planning, credit and treasury risk management, accounting, IT systems and internal
audit.

In the above areas the following have been developed and approved: strategic development plans for 5
years, business plans and financial forecasts, new credit and treasury risk policies and procedures,
accounting and audit practices in compliance with the international accounting and audit standards.
Additionally, organizational structures of commercial banks have been reviewed; trainings and seminars
organized for banking sector specialists in all areas of technical assistance. Over 2000-2004 international
companies carried out external audits at 12 commercial banks.

Within the banking regulation component, the international consultants have provided technical assistance
in the areas of "out-of-court" collateral recovery, liquidation of banks, organization of banking holdings
and non-bank credit institutions. The banking legislation has been respectively amended to include
consultants' recommendations. At the same time the Central Bank received a grant from USAID for
technical assistance to improve its supervisory and regulatory functions; other steps have been made in the
area of currency regulation under the assistance of IMF consultants. Therefore some part of loan funds has
been saved that was initially intended to finance such subcomponents.

Seminars have been held for commercial bank officers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and
the representatives of Oliy Majlis with participation of the consultants within this component.

Under the component of strengthening the financial sector's IT system a number of measures have been
implemented to modernize the banking telecommunication network, improve the payment and IT systems,



                                                    - 15 -

and develop information protection systems.

Today's banking system is equipped with the newest telecommunication equipment purchased from the
loan funds.

Under the component of banking restructuring and privatization works included creation of an institutional
foundation for banking privatization, analysis of regulatory framework, addressing issues hindering
privatization of banks, pre-privatization arrangements and selling shares and bank asset restructuring.

In particular that included analysis of the existing legislation in the light of international practices. Banking
system development trends have been studied and analyzed, the issues requiring solutions have been
identified. Results have been included into the Banking System Development Report for 1998-2003. The
macroeconomic environment has also been reviewed with preparation of related analytical papers.
Proposals have been worked out to facilitate the privatization process.

Diagnostic studies have been conducted at the banks to be privatized (Asaka, National Bank for FEA,
Pakhta, Uzpromstroybank and Uzshilsberbank), outstanding issues identified, respective recommendations
developed and arrangements made to monitor implementation at banks. In a number of banks (Asaka,
Pakhta, Uzpromstroybank, Uzjilsberbank) excessive concentration of shareholders in the capital was
reduced and all banks subject to privatization have diversified and improved the quality of their loan
portfolios. Further arrangements have been made in the area of institutional reorganization of the National
Bank of FEA.

Bank privatization seminars have been held in Budapest and Tashkent where presentations were made on
the banks subject to privatization. ADB's seminar on bank restructuring has also been co-organized and
attended by our representatives.

Shares of Uzshilsberbank have been sold to Bursel (Turkey), a preliminary agreement has also been
reached with that investor to sell shares of Pakhta bank. Over 2000-2004 the public stake was reduced in
9 banks of which 7 had their shares fully sold to local investors.

An interdepartmental working group has been established on bank asset restructuring. A number of
arrangements have been made at banks to be privatized to restructure their loan portfolios. The US
Treasury has provided TA on bank restructuring and privatization.

Implementation Outcomes

Implementation of consultants' recommendations within the TA program, external audit of commercial
banks as well as modernization of the financial sector's IT system allowed to optimize the management and
decision-making processes, improve organization of operations, increase the level of banking services by
introducing new types of financial services and information technologies that facilitated greater competition
among commercial banks; reduce risks and create adequate reserves in the short term that will ultimately
contribute to increased transparency of banking operations and greater attractiveness for strategic
investors.

Improvement of the regulatory framework of the banking system has contributed to the improvement of the
regulatory and supervisory functions of the Central Bank, which was necessary to maintain stability of the
banking system, protect interests of depositors and creditors.




                                                      - 16 -

The modernized banking telecommunication network has linked main regional departments of commercial
banks to the Central Bank and sustained operations of banks on the basis of a single balance sheet. A new
structure of the payment system has permitted processing of settlements in the on-line mode allowing banks
to improve their risk and liquidity management systems.

Other measures aimed at increasing attractiveness of banks for foreign investors, including improvement of
management skills of privatized banks in the area of efficient bank capital, profitability and exposure
parameters supported institutional reorganization of banks, diversification of shareholders structure and
banks assets, raising knowledge in handling non-performing loans and making work in that area more
active, reduction of excessive risks and ultimately the quality of their balances.

The measures targeted at improving operations of commercial banks and addressing the issues related to
banking privatization were enforced due to a number of resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministers and
amendments to legislations and regulations applicable to commercial banks.

Such measures combined with participation of banks in the project have facilitated attraction of foreign
investments. The banks part to the project continue expanding their cooperation with the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Asian
Development Bank, the International Finance Corporation, simultaneously attracting credit lines of other
foreign banks.

Search of prospective investors and respective negotiations and presentations of banks has contributed to a
greater interest of investors in banks via purchasing their shares. The results of cooperation with foreign
banks ("OTR" (Hungary) and others) and share sales to foreign investors (Bursel) may serve as a basis for
privatizing banks in the long term perspective.

Lessons learned after completion

The project has become a part of broader reforms carried out by the Government in the banking and
finance sector that included adoption of a number of Resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministers (#24 of
November 15, 1999 and #104 of March 24, 2004) to further liberalize the banking sector and ensure
effective and proper implementation of the project and achievement of its objectives.

The practice has shown that in order to have a project implemented satisfactorily, its tasks and objectives
must be reviewed regularly to be adjusted for existing needs and opportunities related to economic
development. At that project's main goal must correspond to the general goals of the reforms carried out in
the country.

While contracting foreign consultants for technical assistance programs their experience of working in
similar countries and knowledge of local specifics need to become a primary criterion.

In order to ensure efficient implementation and high-quality knowledge transfer, technical assistance
programs should involve qualified specialists from among the senior executive staff to work with foreign
consultants as their counter partners. Such counter partners should have adequate motivation and
incentives.

While organizing projects related to technical assistance, one should consider organizing trips and training
courses abroad for local specialists to reduce participation of foreign consultants by replacing them by
local specialists which in turn will reduce expenditures for "soft" components.


                                                     - 17 -

It is preferable to manage and implement new projects using the existing Project Implementation Units
experienced in the area.

Restructuring of banks should include at the stage of project design (initiation) considering the matter of
availability of funds for organizing the process of restructuring which is an inseparable part and
preliminary stage of the privatization process. Search of strategic foreign investors and raising their interest
in banking privatization requires a closer work between the lender and the borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

On the Borrower's request, the Loan agreement was amended on July 25, 2003 to allow for the Project's
audit costs to be financed under the Consultants' Services Category.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved bank management:                     Improve strategy and planning                  Same

                                              Improve credit risk analysis                   Same

                                              Unqualified IAS audits                         Same

                                              Improve treasury management                    Same
Increased competitiveness of banks:           Concentration ratios, profitability and growth Same
                                              of banks

                                              Decrease sectoral segmentation of existing     Same
                                              banks

                                              Diversification of loan portfolio              Same
Improved bank regulation/supervision,         Stronger and more transparent internal and     Same
including improved reporting by commercial    external reporting by commercial banks,
banks:                                        including on-site and off-site audits

                                              Improved organization and skills set of        Same
                                              supervision function in CBU.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Intensive technical assistance to selected    Improved bank strategy/planning and            Same
banks:                                        organizational structure

                                              Treasury/Credit risk management                Same

                                              Accounting and auditing of selected banks      Same

                                              Build highly skilled/specialized human         Same
                                              resources for sector
Sector-wide technical assistance:             Improved bank strategy/planning and            Same
                                              organizational structure

                                              Treasury/Credit risk management                Same

                                              Accounting and auditing and training to        Same
                                              support MIS management
Strengthening regulatory/supervisory capacity Implementation of reforms proposed under       Same
of CBU:                                       PPF
Financial sector information system including Reduced transaction time/increased volume      Same
upgrading of payment systems, bank MIS,       of payment system
and telecommunications systems:
                                              Reduced bank operational cost and improved     Same
                                              risk management
Debt Recovery Management to assist banks Bank Privatization Bureau organizes tenders This component was cancelled by the Bank
in workout of non-performing assets (NPAs). to select investment banks for Privatization of  and the Borrower due to lack of activity
Bank Privatization Bureau to assist the MOF   two banks.
privatize selected banks:

1End of project




                                                                  - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                               Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million   US$ million
Institutional strengthening of the six participating banks        3.40            2.80          0.82
Institutional strengthening of the commercial Banks               5.20            3.80          0.73
Improvement of the legal framework                                1.00            0.50           0.5
Strengthening of the financial sector information system         11.00            6.20          0.56
Bank privatization and restructuring                              4.80            0.60          0.12
Institutional strengthening of the PIU                            1.70            1.20          0.71
PPF                                                               1.20            0.60           0.5
Fee (1%)                                                          0.30            0.30             1
Unallocated                                                       1.40            0.00             0

Total Baseline Cost                                              30.00          16.00
                          Total Project Costs                    30.00          16.00
                    Total Financing Required                     30.00          16.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                               0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                               6.50             0.00          0.00         0.00        6.50
                                     (6.50)             (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (6.50)
3. Services                            0.00             0.00         17.60         0.00       17.60
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)      (14.50)        (0.00)    (14.50)
4. Incremental Operating               0.00             0.00          4.40         0.00        4.40
Cost
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)      (2.50)         (0.00)     (2.50)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Other                               0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                               6.50             0.00         22.00         0.00       28.50
                                     (6.50)             (0.00)      (17.00)        (0.00)    (23.50)




                                                     - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                6.60               0.00              0.00             0.00              6.60
                                           (6.20)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (6.20)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              9.00             0.00              9.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.50)            (0.00)           (8.50)
    4. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
    Cost
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Other                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                6.60               0.00              9.40             0.00             16.00
                                           (6.20)             (0.00)            (8.80)            (0.00)           (15.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institutional strengthening     3.20         0.20                     2.60         0.20                  81.3     100.0
of the six participating
banks
Institutional strengthening     4.60         0.60                     3.80         0.00                  82.6      0.0
of the commercial banks
Improvement of the legal        0.80         0.20                     0.50         0.00                  62.5      0.0
framework
Strengthening of the            7.90         3.10                     5.90         0.30                  74.7      9.7
financial sector
information system
Bank privatization and          4.60         0.20                     0.40         0.20                   8.7     100.0
restructuring
Institutional strengthening     1.30         0.40                     0.90         0.30                  69.2      75.0
of the PIU
Total investment costs         22.30         4.70                    14.10         1.00                  63.2      21.3
PPF                             1.20                                  0.60                               50.0
Fee (1%)                        0.30                                  0.30                               100.0
Unallocated                     1.20         0.20                                                         0.0      0.0
Total project costs            25.00         5.00                    15.00         1.00                  60.0      20.0




                                                           - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

         Not Applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/18/1998                1    SPECIALIST (1)
              05/22/1998                6    MISSION LEADER (1), FSD
                                             (1), CONSULTANT (1), PSD
                                             (1), SPECIALIST (2)
              07/15/1998                4    MISSION LEADER (1), FSD
                                             (1), CONSULTANT (1),
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              09/27/1998                3    CONSULTANT (3)
              10/23/1998                3    MISSION LEADER (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/13/1999              10     MISSION LEADER (1),
                                             FMS (1), COORDINATION
                                             (1), PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             FSD (1), LEGAL (1),
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              02/22/1999                5    DIRECTOR (1), TTL (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (3), FSD (1)

 Supervision
              06/10/1999                3    MISSION LEADER (1),              S               S
                                             FSD (1), CONSULTANT (1)
              10/01/1999                1    SPECIALIST (1)                   S               S
              11/02/1999                2    MISSION LEADER (1), FSD (1)      S               S
              11/26/1999                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              12/10/1999                1    MISSION LEADER/FMS (1)           S               S
              02/17/2000                1    SR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (1)
              04/03/2000                1    SR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (1)
              05/08/2000                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              07/05/2000                1    SR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (1)
              09/22/2000                5    MISSION LEADER (1); FSD          S               S
                                             (2); PRIVATIZATION (1);
                                             COORDINATION (1)
              11/02/2000                1    SR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (1)
              05/31/2001                2    PTL/FSD (1); PAS (1)             S               S
              03/13/2002                4    PTL (1); TTL (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); IT (1)
              06/05/2003                2    PTL (1); TTL (1)                 S               S
              12/03/2003                2    SR. ECONOMIST (1); FORMER        S               S



                                              - 24 -

                                           TL (1)

 ICR
               06/04/2004             3     TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                         384,218
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                          93,256
  Supervision                           N/A                         657,882
  ICR                                   N/A                          36,840
  Total                                 N/A                       1,172,196




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire Pre-Appraisal Technical Mission, January 18, 1998

Aide Memoire Identification Mission, May 22, 1998

Aide Memoire Pre-Appraisal Mission, July 15, 1998

Preparation Technical Mission - Back to Office Report, September 27, 1998

Appraisal Mission - Back to Office Report, January 13, 1999

Aide Memoire Post-Appraisal Mission, February 22, 1999

FIBL Project Appraisal Document, April 28, 1999

Aide Memoire for June 3 - 10, 1999 Supervision Mission

Project Status Report, July 2, 1999

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, October 1, 1999

Aide Memoire, November 2, 1999

Aide Memoire for November 6-12, 1999 Supervision Mission

Follow-up Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, November 26, 1999

Project Status Report, December 13, 1999

Memorandum on the Follow-up Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, December 26, 1999

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, December 27, 1999

FIBL: The Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) for Fiscal Year 1999

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, February 17, 2000

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, March 30, 2000

Aide Memoire, March 30, 2000

FIBL Project Appraisal Document, April 2000 Update

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, May 8, 2000

Aide Memoire, May 8, 2000

Project Status Report, May 8, 2000


                                                 - 28 -

Technical Mission - Back to Office Report, July 5, 2000

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, November 2, 2000

Aide Memoire, November 2, 2000

Project Status Report, December 5, 2000

Memorandum on Obstacles and Impediment to Progress in Establishing a Commercial Banking System,
February 28, 2001

Project Status Report, June 28, 2001

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, July 10, 2001

Aide Memoire, July 10, 2001

Project Status Report, December 21, 2001

Aide Memoire, April 24, 2002

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, May 1, 2002

FIBL: The Quality Supervision Assessment (QSA) for Fiscal Year 2002

FIBL Project Appraisal Document, August 2002 Update

Project Status Report, October 29, 2002

Mid-Term Review Mission - Back to Office Report, October 29, 2002

Aide Memoire, October 29, 2002

Aide Memoire, April 19, 2003

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, June 5, 2003

Aide Memoire, June 5, 2003

Project Status Report, June 23, 2003

Project Status Report, November 11, 2003

Supervision Mission - Back to Office Report, December 2, 2003

Aide Memoire, December 2, 2003

Aide Memoire, June 2, 2004


                                                 - 29 -

Supervision and ICR Mission - Back to Office Report, June 22, 2004

Project Status Report, June 29, 2004




                                               - 30 -

- 31 -

