Report No. 686a-GH
Appraisal of a
Telecommunications Project                                                                FILE COPY
Ghana
May 21, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Westem Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          = 0  1.15
¢  1          =  us$o.8696
1,ooo,ooo  = Us$869,565
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
Exchange fill      - Percentage of installed capacity of a telephone
exchange in use.-
DELs               - Direct Exchange Lines  (connected)
GPT                -  Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
HF                 -  High frequency radio  (3,000-30,000 khz)
ITU                -  International Telecommunication Union
Khz                -  Kilohertz
Mhz                - Megahertz
Microwave          -  Radio system working at frequencies above 300 mhz
but normally applied to systems working at fre-
quencies above 1,000 mhz
PABX               -  Private automatic branch exchange
PBX                -  Private branch exchange
PAGE               -  Page Communications Engineers, Inc.  (USA)
PANAFTEL           - Pan-African Telecommuunications Network
P&T                -  Department of Posts and Telecommunications
PWD                -  Public 'Abrks Department
STD                -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
Telex              -  Teleprinter exchange service
UHF                -  Ultra high frequency radio  (300-3,000 mhz)
UNDP               - United Nations Development Program
VHF                - Very high frequency radio  (30-300 mhz)



GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATICNS CORPORATION (GPT)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMIUNICATIONS PROJECT
TABIE OF CCNTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSICNS .. ...............    ....      .. . i-iv
1.   INTRoDuCTIo  ...........      .............     . .            1
2.    THE SECTOR .........*o1
Economic Setting                ..........                  1
Telecommunications Sector                                   2
Existing Facilities 2.........   2
Ongoing Program . ... . ......*O**.**.... .  .              4
Sector Objectives ...........4
3.    THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ..............5
The Program                                                 5
The Project ......5
Cost Estimates .      .........                             6
Project Financing .................................         7
Items for Bank Financing                         .7
Procurement                                                 8
Execution of the Project ....9.9.. ..      ....             8
Disbursements 9.......**..***   9
4.   JUSTIFICATION ..*9*o9.....*.*9..*99.. *99... *. * . *9. *9*9.. .    9
Market Demand                                               9
Least-Cost Solution                                        10
Return on Investment              ..........               11
F.    THE BORROWER  9..................o . ..999099 ....99.OJ       11
Organization and Management ...    11
Commercial Department           ..........                 12
Accounting ............ 9.......... 0.99 .........  13
Audit  . . . . . . . . . .                            .   13
Billing and Collection of Subscriber Accounts . ......... 13
Insurance .............................................  14
6.    FINANCES                                          .........  14
Past and Current Finances ...1O .......                    14
Telecommunications Financing Plan                          15
Telecommunications Tariffs                                 17
Telecommunications - Future Finances                       17
Postal Service ......99999999999 999999999999999999......  18
Fiscal Inpact . ....... ..9...... ..  . . ..............  19
7.    RECOMMENDATIONS .....................                        20
This report is based on information provided by GPT and on the findings
of a mission composed of Messrs. J. G. Davis and S. A. Sathar which
visited Ghana in December 1974.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.    International Telephone Statistics
2.    Organization Chart  - WB-9672
3.    Basic Statistical Data
4.    International Circuits
5.    Description of the Program and Project
6.    Project Construction Schedule  - WB-9671
7.    Telecommunications Construction Works (FYs 1975-1980) -
Cost Estimates
8.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.    Internal Rate of Return of the Project
10.    Statements of Income - FYs 1974-1980
11.    Representative Tariffs
12.    Balance Sheets - FYs 1974-1980
13.    Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds - FYs 1975-1980
14.    Notes and Assumptions on the Financial Statements
15.    Performance Indicators
16.    Proposed Telecommunications Tariff Study
Ghana Long Distance Network - IBRD-10094(R)






GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOM UICATICNS CORPORATICN (GPT)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSICNS
Introduction
i.        The Government of Ghana has asked the Bank to help finance
the first phase of the five year (FYs 76-80) telecommunications deve-
lopment program of the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(GPT), the newly-created Government-owned corporation responsible for
all public postal and telecommunications services in Ghana.
Existirlg Telecomunications Facilities
ii.       GPT's existing telecommunications facilities are inadequate
both in capacity to meet demand for additional connections (as illus-
trated by a waiting list of about 20,300) and in the quality of service.
Automatic exchanges, which are located in the main cities, have a total
capacity of 36,800 lines of exchange equipment. However, after taking
into account 9,000 exchange lines in Accra which are obsolete, worn out
and in need of replacement, and the technical limitations on exchange
utilization, only about 25,o0o lines of automatic switching equipment
are in sufficiently good condition for subscribers connections; further-
more, since GPT's local cable distribution network is inadequate not
all of these lines can be   utilized.  The total number of connected
lines (DELs) to the automatic exchanges is presently 23,,400. In many
of the 415 areas with manual exchanges poor service is due to the use
of obsolete and worn-out equipment. Long distance service is also poor,
partly because the network expansion has not kept up with the growth of
traffic, and because of low reliability of the main radio system which
was poorly designed.
Institution
iii.      After independence, the telecommunications service in Ghana
was the responsibility of the Posts and Telecommunications Department
(P&T) of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The service
was subject to all administrative and financial regulations normal to
Government departments, was not organized on commercial lines, and had
to rely on other Government departments for services essential to its
operations. P&T's finances were not separated from those of the Govern-
ment; all revenues were deposited in the Government's consolidated fund,
and operational and development expenditure was made in accordance with
budgetary allocations and not in accordance with true needs.
iv.       The Government, recognizing the defects of the institutional
set-up for the sector and the desirability of giving it a reasonable
amount of autonomy, decided that P&T would become a Government corpo-
ration.  Therefore, as of July 1, 1972, it made P&T a self-accounting



- ii -
organization with a separate budget, and with autonomy in its day-to-
day operations and development.  Finally, on November 1, 19741, P&T
became Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (GPT), a Govern-
ment corporation managed by a board of directors and with a director-
general as chief executive. Under its charter GPT has been given ade-
quate autonomy and will be operated on a commercial basis.
Sector Objectives
v.        The main long-term  objectives for the sector are: (a) improve-
ment of the quality of local, long distance and international services;
(b) extension of local and long distance services to meet about 65% of
the demand for telephone connections by 1980, including,in particular,
extension of service to rural communities to help integrate remote areas
into the economy; (c) extension of international services to meet by 1980
the demand for these economically crucial services; and (d) consolidation
of the recently-created GPT as an organizationally, managerially, and
financially sound public utility enterprise.
The Program
vi.       The main vehicle for achieving objectives (a) to (c) is GPT's
five year (FYs 76-80) program which comprises: (i) a two-phased program
of rehabilitation, replacement and expansion for domestic telecommunica-
tions services,(ii) the installation of an earth satellite station for
international telecommunications, and (Oii) the construction of microwave
links to Togo and Ivory Coast as part of the Pan-African network.
The Pro.jet
vii.      The project proposed for Bank financing consists of the first
phase of GPT's rehabilitation, replacement, and expansion program for
domestic telecommunications services and comprises: (a) the installation
of about 18,300 lines of automatic equipment, with cable and subscriber
distribution networks and subscriber apparatus, (b) the improvement and
expansion of long distance facilities by provision of a new Takoradi-
Kumasi link, replacement of the Accra-Tema link, and additional multiplex
and switching equipment on existing and new trunk routes, (c) the expan-
sion of the capacity of the Accra telex exchange by 250 lines with con-
version to semi-automatic operation in the international service and the
establishment of a new telex exchange of 50 lines in Kumasi together with
associated teleprinters, (d) consultancy services for detailed engineering,
procurement, assistance in project supervision, accounting improvement, and
(e) staff training.
Execution
viii.     GPT will employ consultants to help prepare the specifications
and bidding documents for the equipment and major cable networks and to
assist in bid evaluation. The installation and commissioning of the
equipment would be carried out by the suppliers under the supervision of
GPT personnel assisted by the consultants; other works would be executed



- iii -
by GPT staff w'th assistance from the suppliers for cable works in the
main cities. GPT has agreed to set up a unit specifically for the pur-
pose of monitoring and controlling the execution of the construction
works of the program.
Project Costs
ix.       The project is estimated to cost US$29.5 million, excluding
import taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$23.1
million. Estimated costs for project equipment are based on prices
recently obtained under international competitive bidding for similar
quantities of similar equipment in other developing countries. Civil
works costs are based on prices experienced by the Ghana Public Works
Department.  Project costs include US$4.3 millim of contingencies to
cover price escalation and US$0.5 million for unexpected changes in
design and specification. The Government has confirmed that it will
exempt GPT from all import taxes and duties for equipment imported di-
rectly for the project.
Project Financing
X.        The proposed Bank loan of US$23.0 million, which would finance
100% of the foreign costs of the project, would cover almost 80% of total
project costs. The loan would be made to GPT for 25 years, including a
5 year grace period. The balance of the project cost of US$6.5 million
would be provided from GPT's own resources.
Procurement
xi.       Equipment financed from the Bank loan would be procured through
international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under Bank Loans, except for about US$2 million (representing
about 9% of the loan) of local switching and transmission equipment for
extending existing installations which would be procured from original
suppliers for reasons of compatibility. It is recommended that this equip-
ment be financed from the proceeds of the loan provided prices are reason-
able. A local preference of 15% or related customs duties, whichever is
the lower, would be applied to bids received from local manufacturers; it
is expected that the latter would compete for the supply of subscriber
apparatus.  The civil works costing in the aggregate US$2.4 million will
also be submitted to international competitive bidding. These works are
widely dispersed throughout the country and will be subdivided into lots
of riot more than about US$300,000 each.  However, even if individual con-
tracts include several lots, they are unlikely to attract foreign bidders.
Disbursement
xii.      The loan would be disbursed against the foreign cost of imported
equipment and supplies, the foreign exchange cost of consulting services
and training, 40% of the cost of contracts for civil works and 100% of
ex-factory cost, excluding sales or similar taxes, for equipment supplied
by local manufacturers. In order to meet the procurement and construction
schedules, GPT will incur expenditures of about US$75,000 for consultants
services, before loan approval.  It is recommended that the Bank finance
this amount retroactively.



- iv -
Justification
xiii.     The project, because of financial constraints, does not meet
the full needs of the sector; however it is self-contained and its main bene-
fits will be realized even if GPT is not able to execute other parts of
its investment program. By improving the quality of local and long dis-
tance services and providing for the addition of about 16,000 new con-
nections it will provide important infrastructure necessary for the pro-
motion of trade and industry and would assist the Government in adminis-
tering and developing the various regions. The project elements represent
the least-cost solution for providing the services for which they are
designed.  The return on investment is estimated to be at least 18p.
Finances
xiv.      Financing arrangements for setting-up GPT were unsatisfactory.
Government has now agreed to take the measures necessary to achieve, as
a first financial objective, a satisfactory current position for GPT.
Former P&r debts to Government taken over by GPT have been converted into
equity capital; Government has agreed to provide GPT with i 2.5 million
cash and will retain responsibility for sums due under contractors finance
agreements made prior to November 1, 1974; a local loan, with Government
guarantee, will be taken up by GPT to complete ongoing FY 76 telecommuni-
cations development.
xv.       GPT's second main financial objective is to generate sufficient
funds from its telecommunications services to meet operating expenses,
debt service, and GPT's portion of telecommunications development expendi-
ture proposed for FYs 76 through 80 and provide a modest return on Govern-
ment equity. To achieve this objective and to assure a satisfactory fi-
nancial position for GPT, the Government has agreed that GPT will adjust
its tariffs in such a way that GPT earns a return on net fixed telecommu-
nications assets of not less than 7% in FYs 76, 77 and 78 and 9% from
FY 79 on. The increase necessary to meet the FY 76 requirement would
become effective on July 1, 1975.
Conclusion
xvi.     lOn the basis of the agreements reached as set out in Chapter
7 the project is suitable for a loan of US$23 million.



GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMN ICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
APPRAISAL OF A TELEC1tJINICATICNS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ghana has requested Bank assistance to finance
a telecommunications project of urgently needed works, covering the reha-
bilitation of automatic exchanges and long distance facilities, the instal-
lation of local exchanges with a capacity of about 18,300 lines, of which
9,000 are to replace obsolete and worn-out equipment, and the extension
of the long distance and telex networks. The project would be undertaken
by the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (GPT) which is res-
ponsible for all public postal and telecomunications services in Ghana.
1.02      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.5 million
of which the foreign cost component is US$23.1 million. The loan, for
which GPT would be the borrower, and the Government the guarantor, would
be the first Bank operation in the telecommunications sector of Ghana.
The project would be the first phase of GPT's PYs 76-80 telecommnunications
development program for which Government is likely to request further Bank
assistance.
1.03      GPT's program is largely based on a study undertaken by Page
Communication Engineers Inc. (US); the study proposed a four-phase deve-
lopment of Ghana's telecommunications system to 1990. In December 1970
the Government requested IDA assistance for the financing of a first stage
of development concentrating on domestic telecommunications services.  In
1971 the Ghanaian authorities assisted by IDA prepared a project which
Messrs. S. A. Sathar, N. Holcer and R. C. Mitchell appraised in May/June
1972. However, due to the economic uncertainties prevailing in Ghana from
mid-1972 on, and the limitation of IDA funds, further project processing
was suspended until May 1974 when Messrs. B. Johnsson and R. C. Mitchell
visited Ghana for a review of the status of telecommunications dev6lopraent
and the definition of a new project which Messrs. J. G. Davis and S. A.
Sathar appraised in December 1974. This report is based on information
provided by GPT and on the findings of this latest mission.
2. THE SECTOR
Economic Setting
2.01      Ghana, a country with an area of about 239,000 km2, has a popu-
lation of about 9.1 million (38 per sq kin) and a population growth rate
of 2.6% per year. The population and economic activities are concentrated
in the southern third of the country around Accra, the country's capital,
its largest city and major business center, and Takoradi and Tema, its
principal ports. Per capita GNP was about US$300 in 1972; it grew at a
rate of 2.7% annually over the period 1965-72.



-2-
2.02      The economy is agricultural, with a dependency on cocoa as the
principal export commodity. There is also a substantial mining industry
which concentrates on the production of gold, industrial diamonds and
manganese! primarily for export. Efficient and reliable telecommunications
make possible the timely exchange of necessary information between producers,
shippers and customers and are therefore of crucial importance to the
strength and growth of the country's commercial and industrial activities.
The demand for telephone service in Ghana, particularly from the business
sector (estimated to be about 60% of total demand), is expressed by GPT's
large waiting list.  By satisfying this demand and generally improving the
quality of service, GPT would eliminate many of the communication problems
presently besetting the country's business and administrative activities,
and would contribute directly to the overall growth of the economy.
Telecommunications Sector
2.03      In 1963 the Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T) of the
Ministry of Transport and Communicatians assumed full responsibility for
the operation and development of the telecommunications sector in Ghana.
Until 1972 P&T functioned as a Government department and was subject to
the administrative and financial regulations normal to such departments;
P&T was not organized along commercial lines and had to rely on other
Government departments for services essential to its operations. P&T's
budget was a part of the budget of the central Government and all P&TIs
revenues were deposited in the Government's consolidated fund; hence P&T,
to finance its capital development program and recurring expenditures, had
to rely on annual budget allotments, which were not in accordance with its
needs. P&T's accounting system was on a cash basis in line with Government's
budgeting requirements and could not provide meaningful management informa-
tion.
2.04      P&TIs lack of autonomy and commercial orientation had long been
recognized in Ghana as a deterrent to the development of the telecommunica-
tions sector. Therefore in mid-1972, as a first step tawards corporate
status, Government declared P&T a self-accounting department with a
separate budget and with autonomy in its day-to-day operations. Finally,
as from November 1, 1974, P&T was changed into a statutory corporation--
Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (GPT)--by a decree of the
National Redemption Council. Under its charter GPT has wide administra-
tive and financial autonomy, and its Board, with the approval of the Com-
missioner for Transport and Communications, may by legislative instrument,
prescribe the Corporation's tariffs. The Corporation will eventually have
a policy-making Board of Directors but until the Board is appointed the
Commissioner wields the Board's authority. For details of GPT's organiza-
tion see para. 5.01 and Annex 2.
Existing Facilities
2.05      Ghana has a telephone density of 0.55 per 100 population.  While
this is a higher ratio than in a number of other African countries (see
Annex 1), the existing facilities are inadequate both in capacity to meet



-3-
demand for addi ional connections and in the quality of service.  Annex 3
gives the basic data on GPT's facilities.
Local Telephone Service
2.06      The local telephone network consists of (i) 16 automatic exchanges
having a total capacity of 36,800 lines with about 23,400 connected lines
(DELs), of which some 52% are connected in Accra; however, about 9,000 lines
of exchange equipment in Accra are obsolete, worn out and need to be re-
placed; and (ii) 415 manual exchanges with 5,700 DELs. Apart from the limi-
tations due to design, which restrict the utilization of exchange capacities
to 85-90%, some of the facilities cannot be used because of shortage in the
cable distribution network (see para. 2.10). As of June 30, 197h, there was
a registered waiting list of about 20,300.
Long Distance Service
2.07      Ghana has an extensive long distance network, comprising micro-
wave and VHF radio systems, supplemented in the remote areas by open-wire
carrier systems. Subscribers connected to the automatic exchanges can
dial long distance calls through five automatic trunk switching exchanges;
however, due to insufficient capacity and inadequate engineering the ser-
vice is unsatisfactory (see para. 2.11).
Telegraph and Telex Services
2.08      The public telegraph service is provided by teleprinter and
Morse networks. The teleprinter network serves all the principal cities
by means of voice-frequency carrier, using both microwave and VHF systems.
Telex service is provided only in Accra, which has an exchange with a
capacity of 200 lines and 192 connected subscribers.
International Services
2.09      International telephone, telegraph and telex services are pro-
vided by HF radio links with a number of African countries. Traffic to
other countries in Africa and overseas is routed via London. Details are
given in Annex 4.
Service Standards
2.10      In all parts of the country, the service provided by the local
exchanges is poor. Although in the main cities the exchanges are largely
automatic, expansion of these exchanges has not kept pace with the growth
of traffic and there are many bottlenecks in the networks. In Accra, poor
service is mainly due to switching equipment that is partly obsolete and
worn out.  In the other areas, the main reasons for unsatisfactory service
are the limitations inherent in the use of manual magneto exchanges, and
the use of exchanges which are old and worn out. Moreover, the subscriber
network in all areas makes extensive use of open-wire routes, which are
fault prone; and capacity and design of networks are inadequate in many
areas; the latter has led to delays in meeting requests for telephones
even -here capacity is available in the exchanges (see para. 2.06). The
proposed project would eliminate most of these deficiencies.



2.11      The long distance service is likewise poor partly because net-
work expansion has not kept up with the growth of traffic. Also, as com-
mented on extensively in the PAGE report, there were weaknesses in the
initial system design of the main routes. For instance, due to unsatis-
factory design of the spacing between repeater stations in the original
planning of the microwave system and to an unreliable power supply, espe-
cially at the repeater stations, system reliability is low.  This situa-
tion is being improved significantly as part of the ongoing program (see
para. 2.1:3), by using modern battery-operated equipment at the intermediate
stations and by relocating repeaters to overcome difficult radio transmis-
sion condiitions.
2.12      The international services, particularly telephone, are unsatis-
factory. The lack of equipment capacity and the use of high frequency
radio systens, which--under prevalent radio transmission conditions--are
prone to interference and instability, result in inordinate delays In
putting through calls and in poor speech quality.
Ongoing Program
2.13      GPT has an ongoing program mainly consisting of:
(a)  Tamale-Bolgatanga-Yendi-Wa UHF radio systems,
(b) Kumasi-Mampong (Ashanti) and Sunyani-Techiman-Wenchi
UHF radio systems, and
(c) Ministry exchange at Accra.
Almost all of the equipment for these works is in the country but instal-
lation is held up due to delays in the construction of buildings. Special
efforts are required to get these works completed as soon as possible. The
financing arrangements for the works are discussed in para. 6.05. During
negotiationis GPT gave assurances that it will complete the works of its
ongoing program by June 30, 1976 at the latest. The phasing of investment
during FYs 75 and 76 is shown in Annex 7.
Sector Objectives
2.14      The principal sector objectives for the period 1976-1980 are:
(a) improvement of the quality of local, long distance and inter-
national services;
(b) extension of local and long distance services to meet about
65% of the demand for telephone connections by 1980, inclu-
ding in particular, extension of service to rural communities
to help integrate remote areas into the economy;
(c) extension of international services to meet the demand for
these economically crucial services by 1980; and
(d) consolidation of the recently-created GPT as an organizationally,
managerially, and financially sound public utility enterprise.



- 5 -
The main vehicle for achieving objectives (a) to (c) is GPT's FYs 76-80
development program (see paras. 3.01 and 3.02) of which the proposed Bank-
assisted project represents the first phase. Further, the following mea-
sures associated with the Bank project are expected to help substantially
reach goal (d) above: (i) strengthening of middle-management staff (para.
5.03); (ii) improvement of productivity (para. 5.04); (iii) improvement
of financial organization and control (paras. 5.o8-5.09); (iv) increase
in Government equity (para. 6.05), additional finance for the ongoing pro-
gram (para. 6.05), and tariff adjustment (para. 6.08).
3. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      Ghana's telecomunnications development program for the period
FYs 76-80 aims at improving the quality of the local and long distance
services and, within the limitation imposed by the available resources,
meet part of the anticipated demand for new telephone connections. It is
estimated to cost i 58.9 (US$51.2) million, including a foreign cost of
0 46.3 (US$4O.3) million, and comprises:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of domestic telecommunication
services, with the installation of about 27,500 lines of
local automatic telephone exchange equipment(of which 9,000
would replace worn-out equipment)and associated cable net-
works, the addition of high priority long distance telephone
facilities and installation of about 400 lines of telex
equipment;
(b)  construction of an earth satellite station for interna-
national telecommunications; and
(c) establishment of microwave links to Togo and Ivory Coast
as a part of the Pan-African telecommunications network.
Details of the program are given in Annex 5. The total cost of part (a)
is estimated at about i 49.7 (US$43.2) million,including a foreign cost
of / 38.7 (US$33.6) million; this part would be executed in two phases:
Phase I during FYs 76-79 and Phase II during FYs 78-80. Phase I,which
consists of the most urgent works of rehabilitation and expansion,is a
balanced and self-contained part of GPT's investment program and would
form the physical component of the proposed Bank project. GPT has not
yet arranged financing for Phase II and it may seek Bank assistance for
this. For the financing of parts (b) and (c) of the program, GPT intends
to approach other sources; since these parts also comprise priority items
of GPT's program, though less urgently needed than those in the Bank pro-
ject, it is recommended that the Bank agree to their execution provided
suitable financing is arranged (see para. 6.07).
The Project
3.02      The proposed Bank project, further details of which are given



-6-
in Annex 5, includes (i) installation of about 18,300 lines of automatic
switching equipment (including replacement of about 9,000 lines of worn-
out equipment) with cable and subscriber distribution networks and pro-
vision of the necessary subscriber apparatus; (ii) improvement and expan-
sion of the long distance facilities by provision of a new Takoradi-Kumasi
microwave link, and the addition of multiplex and switching equipment on
the existing and new trunk routes; (iii) expansion of telex exchange
capacity by 250 lines in Accra, with conversion to semi-automatic opera-
tion in the international service; construction of a telex exchange with
a capacity of 50 lines in Kumasi, including associated teleprinters;
(iv) consultancy services for detailed engineering and assistance in
procurement and project supervision, (v) accounting improvement, and (vi)
staff training.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The project is estimated to cost % 33.9 (US$29.5) million with
a foreign exchange component of US$23.1 million. The costs, which are
summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 7, exclude all duties and
taxes. As confirmed during negotiations the Government will exempt GPT
from payirng these duties and taxes.
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
-- ~million ------   -----US  million-----
Civil works, buildings,
including airconditioning   1.68   2.42      4.10    1.46   2.14      3.60
Automatic exchange equipment
for local exchanges and for
long distance facilities    0.38   5.81      6.19    0.33   5.05      5.38
Local networks                 1.53   6.39     7.92    1.33   5.56      6.89
Subscribers plant              0.38   1.48     1.86    0.33   1.29      1.62
Long distance radio and open-
wire carrier systems         1.43   2.56     3.99    1.24   2.23      3.47
Telex                         0.10   1.20      1.30    0.09   1.04      1.13
Vehicles                          -  0.50      0.50        -  0.43      0.43
Miscellaneous                  0.29   1.16      1.45    0.25   1.01      1.26
Consultants and training        02 0.84        1.09    0.22      7      0.95
Base cost     6.04  22.36    28.20  19.48    24.73
Contingencies
(a)  Physical               0.14   0.42      0.56    0.12   0.37      0.49
(b)  Price                  1.10      82     4.92    0.95   3.29      4.24
71._21                  1.07 a.            73
TOTAL     7.28  26.60    33.88    6.32  23.14    29.46
3.Ol      The estimated foreign exchange component of the equipment cost of
the project was determined on the basis of the cost, adjusted to late FY 75
price levels, of fixed price contracts for similar equipment recently pro-
cured under international competitive bidding and to be delivered over a
similar period of time. The local component of equipment cost and the civil
works costs were estimated on the basis of GPT's and the Ghana Public Works
Db;rtment's most recent contracting experience.



- 7 -
3.05      A physical contingency allowance of 4% has been provided on
foreign and local costs of items such as buildings, automatic ex-
change equipment,and radio and telex installations. This would be suf-
ficient to cover unforeseen design or engineering modifications which
might occur in these components when the detailed specifications are
drawn up. Estimated price increases amount to about 18% of base cost
estimates plus physical contingencies and have been computed according
to the following compound rates: (a) 10% in FY 76, 8% in Fr 77 and
thereafter,on foreign costs for equipment; (b) 18% in FY 76, 16% in FY
77, 14% in FY 78 and 12% in FY 79 on local costs for civil works. These
contingencies are considered adequate.
Project Financing
3.06      The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of
US$23.0 million which would be made to GPT for 25 years, including a
5 year grace period, and US$6.5 million from GPT's own resources.
Items for Bank Financing
3.07      The proposed Bank loan would be used to finance the following
foreign exchange costs.
US$ million
(a)  Airconditioning equipment for
exchange buildings                         1.14,
(b)  Civil works, buildings - imported
materials                                  1.00
(c)  Automatic exchange equipment for
local exchanges and for long dis-
tance facilities                          5.05
(d)  Local and junction cable networks         5.56
(e)  Subscribers plant and installations       1.29
(f)  Long distance radio and open-wire
syestem                                    2.23
(g)  Telex equipment,including teleprinters   1.04
(h)  Vehicles                                  0.43
(i)  Miscellaneous items (training equip-
ment, PBX, PABXs, cable construction
tools, telephone billing machines and
test equipment)                           1.01
(j)  Consultants services and accounting
training                                  0.73
(k)  Unallocated                               3.52
TOTAL      23.00



-8-
Procurement
3.08      Equipment financed from the Bank loan would be procured through
internaticnal competitive bidding, in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under Bank Loans", with the exception of some local
switching and transmission equipment for extending existing installations
which, for reasons of compatibility, would be procured from the original
suppliers. The foreign cost of this equipment is estimated at most at US$2
million or about 5% of the loan amount; it is recommended that it should
be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan provided the prices offered
are reasonably in line with international prices for similar equipment. A
preference of 15% or the applicable customs duties, whichever is the lower,
would be applied to bids from local manufacturers; it is expected that such
manufacturers would compete for the supply of subscribers apparatus, the
foreign exchange component of which amounts to about US$0.3 million. The
civil works ,which are estimated to cost in aggregate US$2.4 million will also
be submitted to international competitive bidding. These works are widely
dispersed throughout the country and will be subdivided into lots of not more
than about US$300,000 each. However, even if individual contracts include
several lots, they are unlikely to attract foreign bidders.
3.09     G'?T is normally required to procure its equipment through the
Ghana Supply Commission; GPT's experience with this arrangement has been
very unsatisfactory. To ensure timely and orderly procurement, Government
agreed during negotiations that GPT, assisted by consultants, would carry
out procurement related to the project.
Execution of the Project
3.10      GPT would employ consultants for about 140 man/months to help
prepare the specifications and bidding documents and to assist in bid
evaluation for the automatic exchanges, microwave systems, and major
cable networks. GPT has already negotiated a draft contract with con-
sultants which has been reviewed by the Bank. GPT expects to appoint
the consultants by June 1, 1975 or soon thereafter. The suppliers, under
the superv:Lsion of GPT personnel assisted by the above consultants, would
install and commission the exchange equipment and microwave system. GPT,
assisted in the main cities by suppliers, would install and joint the
cables.  GPT would use its owr. staff for installing subscriber facilities.
The civil works--buildings, access roads and major duct routes--would be
carried out by contractors under the supervision of GPT's project control
unit and with the assistance of the consulting wing of the Public Wbrks
Department (PWD).
3.11      At present, GPT's organization is inadequate for properly super-
vising proJect execution. Therefore, during negotiations GPT agreed to
create within its own organization a unit whose sole purpose would be
monitoring and control of execution of GPT's investment program, inclu-
ding the Bank project.  This unit should start working before July 1, 1975,
and should be headed by a manager whose terms of reference and qualifica-
tions should be acceptable to the Bank.



-9-
3.12      With the above unit,assisted by consultants and suppliers (see
para. 3.10), GPT should be able to execute the proposed project satis-
factorily, Construction schedules for the main items in the project are
shown in Chart No. WB-9671 (Annex 6). The project completion date would
be June 30, 1979.
Disbursement
3.13      The proposed loan would be disbursed against the foreign cost
of imported equipment and supplies, the foreign exchange cost of consul-
ting services and training, 40% of the cost of contracts for civil works
and 100% of ex-factory cost, excluding sales or similar taxes, for equip-
ment supplied by local manufacturers (see para. 3.08). The schedule of
estimated   disbursements is in Annex 8.  In order to meet the procure-
ment and construction schedules, GPT will incur expenditures of about
Us$75,000 for consultants services, before loan approval. It is recom-
mended that the Bank finance this amount retroactively. It is also re-
commended that if any loan funds remain undisbursed after completion of
the project, these funds should be disbursed against the cost of addi-
tional goods and services similar to those to be procured under the loan
and needed for GPT's continuing expansion program. GPT would determine
these goods and services in agreement with the Bank.
4. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      Owing to the limitations on available resources GPT's FY 76-80
program could not be designed to meet all the needs of the sector; for
the same reasons the program is to be executed in phases, according to
priorities. The project is the first phase of this program and therefore
ccntains the highest priority works for rehabilitation, replacement of
obsolete and worn-out plant, expansion and general improvement of the
quality of local, domestic long distance and telex services; the remainder
of the program addresses itself mainly to the improvement and expansion of
the international services with some further additions to the domestic ser-
vices. The project is based on the premise that the provision of good
service to a large number of existing subscribers is more important than
the connection of new subscribers to an already overloaded network. Since
it is self-contained, its main benefits will be realized even if GPT is
unable to execute the other works in the program. It would substantially
contribute to achieving the sector objectives outlined in para. 2.14 by
providing an important part of the infrastructure necessary for promoting
trade and industry in Ghana and assisting the Government in administering
and developing the various regions.
Market Demand
Local Services
4.02      By  mid-1974, after increasing at an annual rate of 8% over the
past ten years, total expressed demand for telephone service was 49,h30,
comprising 29,130 DELs in service and 20,300 prospective subscribers on



- 10 -
the waiting list. It is reasonable to assume that demand was even higher
because prospective subscribers, aware of poor service and of inordinate
delays (up to three years) in the provision of conmections, are not apply-
ing for service. Therefore, total demand was projected to continue to
grow at about 8% per year during the period of the program.  On this basis,
and assujming an 85% exchange fill, it is estimated that the equipment to
be provided under the project, after replacing 9,000 lines of obsolete and
worn-out equipment in Accra, would be sufficient to meet about 60% of the
demand intil the next phase of expansion commences in FY 80.
Long Distance Service
4.03      Due to the congestion and poor quality of service on most of
the routes during the past years, historical growth of long distance traf-
fic in Ghana is not useful for forecasting future requirements. GPT has
periodically carried out traffic measurements including registration of
traffic overflow. On the basis of these recent measurements GPT estimates
a normal rate of growth to be 11% per year; this is reasonable. The demand
projections also take into account the limitations on the number of new DELs
which can be added. As part of the ongoing program GPT is providing some
facilities to relieve congestion. The project provides for further such
facilities which, once installed, would permit the basic transmission equip-
ment to meet demand up to 1982.
Telex Service
4.04     EBy mid-1974 the number of telex subscribers in Accra/Tema area
was 192 with a waiting list of 62, making a total demand of 254. In addi-
tion to Accra,the cocoa and timber center,Kumasi, urgently needs telex
facilities and has a waiting list of 20. The annual subscriber growth is
expected to be about 15% per year in the country; this is reasonable. On
this basis, the extension of the Accra exchange by 250 lines and the pro-
vision of a new 50-line exchange at Kumasi, both provided under the project,
would fall just short of meeting the demand in 1979, the year in which they
would start operation. The new facilities would also provide a semi-auto-
matic international service for Accra. A further stage of telex expansion
is expected to commence in 1980.
Least-Cost Solution
4.05      Fundamental decisions determining Ghana's telecommunications
structure were taken in 1966 in connection with the introduction of sub-
scriber toll dialing (STD). This incorporated the numbering, switching
and transmission plans; the facilities to be provided under the project
reflect a continuation of these policies. The size, design and timing of
additions to the switching facilities represent the least-cost solution
for the required development under the given financial constraints. The
size and timing of the associated cable distribution network will be based
on plant practices for achieving least cost; the proper design and engineer-
ing of this network will be one of the tasks of the consultants who GPT
will retain for the project.



4.o6      In thf  Long distance network, the new Takoradi-Kumasi route will
provide additional facilities for a number of important towns along the
route and also an essential alternative route in the Kumasi-Accra-
Takoradi triangular network. The choice of microwave radio for this route
represents the least cost as compared with the alternative, coaxial cable.
In addition, upgrading of the existing routes will bring about the improved
service and reliability which is essential for STD operation. The addi-
tional multiplex equipment will be supplied at low incremental cost and will
provide badly needed additional facilities.
Return on Investment
4.07      The internal rate of return on the investment for the project is
18%. It has been calculated as the discount rate which equalizes the pre-
sent worth of incremental cost (i.e. capital cost of the project and dif-
ference of system operating costs with and without the project, excluding
taxes and duties) and incremental revenues resulting from the project over
its lifetime.  A similar calculation, assuming a notional 30% surcharge
on the imported component of the capital investment (to reflect the scar-
city of foreign exchange in Ghana ), showed a rate of return on the project
of 15%. A sensitivity analysis shows that should revenues decrease and
costs increase simultaneously by 10% the return would still be 16%. These
calculations indicate that on average the prices that subscribers will be
charged for telecommunications usage in Ghana will exceed the incremental
cost of providing the service.
4.08      The true economic return on the project is higher thar the fore-
going suggest, since (a) the prices charged do not adequately measure the
full benefits to subscribers, (b) there are external benefits which accrue
to parties other than those who pay directly for the use of the facilities,
and (c) the costs include the full costs of extending service to new areas,
even though the full benefits of the extension will not be realized until
additional lines are connected in these areas at some future time.
5. THE BORROWER
Orgnization and mae=ment
5.01      GPT was established as an autonomous Government-owned corpora-
tion as from November 1, 1974.  GPT's statutes are satisfactory.  GPT
will have a seven-man Board of Directors, including the Director-General
and the Deputy Director-General. In the exercise of his functions of
chief executive, the Director-General will be assisted by the Deputy
Director-General, three directors (for External Telecommunications, Internal
Telecommunications, and Postal Services, respectively) and a Financial
Controller. GPT is actively putting together this new organization. An
organization chart is given in Annex 2.
5.02      The Governmenit has yet to appoint GPTfs Director-General; in
the meantime the Deputy Director-General performs the duties of the office.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government and GPT



- i 2 -
will consult with the Bank before filling vacancies in the posts of
Director-General, Deputy Director-General, and Financial Controller.
The Deputy Director-General and the three directors are experienced and
competent. A qualified Financial Controller has recently been appointed.
The former Chief Accountant, who is a very experienced and capable offi-
cial, has reached retirement age but will stay on with GPT until the
Financial Controller has fully taken over and the new accounting staff
are appointed and trained.
5.03      GPT needs to strengthen considerably its middle management
staff in the technical and financial branches. While steps are being
taken to fill some of the vacancies by selecting suitable members of the
existing staff for training, much more requires to be done. During nego-
tiations, the Government and GPT agreed that by March 31, 1976, GPT would
draw up, cliscuss with the Bank, and thereafter implement a program of re-
cruitment and training of middle-management staff.
5.04      The permanent staff of GPT's telecommunications service numbers
about 5,2CO or 100 per 1,000 telephones.  This ratio is high, and is main-
ly due to (i) a large standing force of laborers, (ii) the need to staff
415 manual exchanges, and (iii) the large number of staff required for
handling telegraph traffic. There is room for improved productivity.
Therefore, during negotiations, GPT agreed to (i) undertake a review of
its telecommunications staff structure and requirements and consult with
the Bank not later than June 30, 1976 on the measures it proposes to
take to increase productivity in general, and in particular to retrain
existing staff; (ii) by June 30, 1976 set targets to substantially reduce
staffing ratio below 100 per 1,000 telephones.
5.05      The basic training facilities are adequate.  A large well-equipped
telecommunications training center, built with UNDP assistance, is located
in Accra; the center has capacity for about 20 technical courses per year.
At its present annual output of about 100 graduates, the center is not yet
fully utilized. Consultants provided under British and Canadian bilateral
assistance programs are presently training accounting and comercial staff
on-the-job. Equipment suppliers have also provided technical training
abroad and in Ghana to familiarize GPT's employees with new equipment; it
is proposed to continue this practice. Furthermore, the UNDP program for
GPT includes a number of fellowships for overseas training of senior per-
sonnel in engineering and management.  The proposed loan includes US$100,000
to cover the foreign costs of eight man-years of specialized training over-
seas for management financial staff. The proposed loan would also cover
foreign exchange costs of consultants who would give further on-the-job
training to GPT's financial staff (see para. 5.08); should GPT be able to
arrange training included in the project through further bilateral assist-
ance arrangements, the corresponding loan amounts would be available for
other purposes of the project.
Commercial Department
5.06      A, senior adviser from Alberta Government Telephones, Canada,
under a Canadian Government bilateral assistance program, is presently



-3-
assisting GxPT ^ii setting up a new commercial department; GPT will staff
this new department from its existing personnel.  The proposed organi-
zation and procedures are satisfactory.
Accounting
5.07      The financial consultants Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., under
British Government bilateral assistance, are presently developing and
installing a modern commercial accounting system for GPT; the accounts
will reflect separately postal and telecommunications operations. In
addition, the consultants are advising on organization, costing, stores
accounting, and stock control, revenue billing, collection, internal
audit and administrative procedures. The work is proceeding satisfac-
torily. During negotiations, GPT agreed to take all measures necessary
to ensure that a commercial accounting system, providing separate opera-
ting results for each of GPT's services, will become fully operative in
FY 76.
5.08      GPT will require a continuation of assistance from the financial
consultants in (i) establishing systems for budgeting, works-in-progress,
project control, internal audit procedures, workshops and vehicle account-
ing, and (ii) on-the-job training of staff in the new systems. The con-
tinued employment of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. would be acceptable to
the Bank. The proposed loan includes US$80,000 to cover the foreign costs
of these services for about 12-14 man/months.  During negotiations, GPT
agreed to (i) appoint qualified consultants in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank for the services mentioned, and (ii)
introduce and operate no later than June 30, 1976, a system of internal
audit satisfactory to the Bank.
Audit
5.09      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank would be appointed to perform an annual
audit of GPT's accounts, commencing with FY 76, and (ii) certified finan-
cial statements, including the auditors' report, would be submitted to
the Bank within six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Billing and Collection of Subscriber Accounts
5.10      GPT has recently regionalized its billing activities and consi-
derable improvement is taking place in the billing lead time. Credit
control is also being improved and although there is room for further
improvement in subscribers debt collection the problem is being dealt
with methodically and with close supervision fram management. In the
past the Government has made lump sum payments to P&T, generally in
advance, for the telecommunications service rendered to it; however,
those payments have not covered the total amount due to P&T. During
negotiations, the Government agreed that it will settle its bills for
telecommunications promptly and in full.



- 14 -
6. FINANCES
Past and Current Finances
6.01      On July 1, 1972 when F&T, GPT's predecessor, became a self-finan-
cing entity (see para. 2.04), it took over the debts the Government had
incurred on behalf of the telecommunications and postal sectors from
January 15 1969 onwards. Responsibility for the settlement of debts incurred
before this date remained with the Government; these debts for supplier-
financed capital equipment, are presently estimated at / 13.2 (US$11.4)
million. P&T took over the right to collect subscribers' arrears but the
Government did not provide P&T with any liquid working capital or supple-
mentary ftnds to meet development expenditures. Consequently, as the pay-
ments for new equipment became due, P&T quickly ran into cash flow diffi-
cilties. To assist P&T, the Government made two short-term repayable
advances totalling 6 2.9 (US$2.5) million, which, however were insufficient.
Therefore, to meet telecommunications requirements, P&T started to use funds
collected by the postal services on behalf of various Government agencies
(National Lotteries, Savings Bank, Controller and Accountant General); as
of June 30, 1974 it accumulated about / 2.7 million of such debts.
6.02      The full gravity of P&T's financial position became clear only
when financial consultants prepared pro-fonra commercial accounts for FY
74 operations. These accounts, which present a reasonably accurate pic-
ture of P&T's financial performance and position, have been used as a
basis for the FYs 74 and 75 Telecommunications Income Statements and
Balance Sheets given in Annexes 10 and 12. The first audited accounts
will be for FY 76 (see para. 5.09). In establishing the Balance Sheet of
the telecormmunications service, as of June 30, 1974, debts of the Govern-
ment for services rendered have been written-off against equity; capital
as of that date consisted entirely of Government equity, amounting to
4 1.5 million and represented by:
r millions
Net fixed assets                                   42.6
Inventories                                         4.7
47.3
Less: excess of current liabilities
over current assets                         5.8
Total net assets               41
6.03      The excess of current liabilities over current assets (9 5.8
(US$5.0) million), which is indicative of M&T's serious current position
as of June 30, 1974 comprises:                            0 millions
Current liabilities
Government advances                                  2.9
Other debt to Government agencies                    2.7
Suppliers                                            2.5
Other creditors & receipts in advance                2.3
Less: current assets
Cash                                         0.3
Subscriber debts                              2.8
Other debtors                                 1.5    4.6



- 15 -
6.o4      Earni,.s 9frcym telecommunications operations showed a surplus
of about 0 2 million in FY 74; the return on net fixed telecommunica-
tions assets in service was about 6.9%; the operating ratio was 85.
However in FY 75, mainly due to the Xarch 1975 salary awards, which were
granted retroactively from July 1, 1974 and were equivalent to an overall
increase of 70% on the previous year's aggregate salaries, there has been
a serious deterioration in the financial performance of the telecommunica-
tions services. Latest forecasts for FY 75 indicate a net deficit of
1 876,000 with a 'nil' rate of return, and an operating ratio of 106.
6.05      GPT inherited P&TIs poor financial position on incorporation
(November 1, 1974). GPT's first financial objective is therefore to
obtain adequate working capital and sufficient funds to finance the on-
going telecommunications program. To help GPT achieve this objective
the following measures have been or will be taken:
(i) repayable advances made by the Government to P&T and
totalling t 2.9 million (see para. 6.01) have been can-
celled and transferred to Government equity in GPT's
books;
(ii) debts of P&T to Government agencies amounting to / 2.7
million (see para. 6.01) have been cancelled and trans-
ferred to Government equity in GPT's books; Government
has taken over responsibility for settling these debts
with the agencies concerned;
(iii) the Government will provide GPT with t 2.5 million cash
as working capital; it has already paid ¢ 1 million
and has undertaken to pay the balance before June 30,
1975;
(iv) GPT will take up a local loan amounting to 4 7.0
million, with Government guarantee, and on terms satis-
factory to the Bank, for financing ongoing FY 76 tele-
communications development; and
(v) the Government will make a financial settlement with
GPT covering the costs of services rendered in FY 75
by GPT and its predecessor to Government and vice-versa.
Durtng negotiations, the Government also confirmed that it has released
GPT from any obligation under long-term suppliers finance agreements
entered into by the Government prior to GPT's incorporation. To allow
the necessary time for the implementation of measures (iv) and (v)
above, it is recommeded that this implementation be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Telecommunications - Financing Plan
6.06      GPT's capital investment and working capital requirements for
telecommunications during the FYs 76-80 period, along with the sources



- 16 -
from which they would be met, are summarized below. Fuirther details are
given in Annex 13.
Financing Plan - FYs 76-80
US$       _
(millions)
Requirements
Construction
Ongoing works - FY 76                             9.1    7.9    11
FYs 76-80 program
1st phase (Bank-financed project)             33.9   29.5    ho
2nd phase                                      15.8   13.7    19
Earth satellite station                         7.0    6.1      8
PANAFTEL link                                   2.2    1.9      3
8.9   51.2T   70
Future program-commencing FY 80                   8.5    7.4    10
76.5   66.5    91
Working capital                                     8.1    7.1      9
Total requirements          84.6   73.6   100
Sources
Internal cash generation                           48.2   41.9
Less: debt service                              (13.9) (12.1)
cash available for distribution            X5j )    _
Borrowings:
IBRD                                             26.4   23.0    31
Other (see para. 6.07)                           29.7   25.8    35
9-T  488    6-6
Total sources               84.6   73.6   100
6.07      This financing plan reflects the second main financial objec-
tive of GPT, i.e. to generate enough funds to be able to meet the re-
quirements of the development program, debt service, maintain working
capital and to pay a modest return on Government equity. For the pur-
poses of the plan it has been assumed that the foreign exchange costs
of (i) . 16.9 million for Phase II, PANAFTEL and future program works
would be financed by loans on terms similar to those for the proposed
Bank loan, (ii) i 5.8 million for the earth satellite station would be
financed through credits over 12 years including 3 years grace and
interest at; 8i%. Assumed terms for the e, 7 million local loan are 15
years including 3 years grace and interest at 9%. During negotiations,
GPT agreed that during the project period it will undertake Phase II of



- 17 -
its program, construct the earth satellite station, implement the PANAFTEL
link, undertake any other capital expenditure for telecommunications in
excess of US$600,000, in any one year, only after agreeing a financing
plan with the Bank.
Telecommunicat ions Tariffs
6.08      On the basis of present forecasts GPT needs to earn a return on
net fixed assets of at least 9%, to achieve its second financial objective.
Present tariffs are insufficient even to provide therevenue to fully cover
operating expenses. However, since it is not possible to implement an
increase in tariffs which would immediately provide the 9% rate of return,
the Government plans that GPT will reach the target in two stages. There-
fore, during negotiations, the Government and GPT agreed that GPT would
adjust its telecommunications tariffs in such a way as to enable GPT's
telecommunications operations to earn a return of not less than 7% in FYs
76, 77 and 78, and of not less than 9% in FYs 79 and thereafter. Assu-
rances were also obtained that the first increase, which will be effective
July 1, 1975,would provide a 40% increase in aggregate telecommunications
revenues in FY 76 over the sum originally forecast for that year. In view
of the existing deficient service, this increase is probably the maximum
which could realistically be considered; it is recommended that the imple-
mentation of this adjustment should be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan. Depending on GPT's operating results and requirements at the time,
a second increase would be implemented in FY 79; present forecasts indicate
that to achieve a 9% rate of return an increase of about 17% in overall
revenues would be needed. GPTVs tariffs which are given in Annex 11 are not
high, and compare favorably with some neighboring countries; local calls
presently cost US04 in Ghana, US¢12.5 in Ivory Coast, US¢16 in Senegal, and
US¢4 in Ethiopia; the latter are expected to be increased soon. GPT pro-
poses to undertake a study on its tariff structure, and has requested the
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) to provide an expert for the
work. The Bank has also agreed to take part in the study and will provide
staff for the economic input. A draft on the economic aspects of the pro-
posed study is given in Annex 16.
Telecommunications - Future Finances
6.09      Forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs 76-80 for
the telecommunications services are given in Annexes 10 and 12 with notes
in Annex 14. Indicators to measure GPT's performance are given in Annex
15. The estimate of national telephone revenues used for these statements
assumes that, in accordance with GPT's capability to give telephone con-
nections, the number of connections will grow in FY 76 by only 6% but that
this rate would increase by FYs 79 and 80 to about 10-11% per year; a mo-
dest lowering of the overall calling rate per subscriber has been antici-
pated at that time. International telephone traffic is expected to increase
by about 5% per year from FYs 77 through 79, however with the commissioning
of the earth satellite station, assumed in FY 79, a 50% boost in traffic
is to be expected during Fl 80. Telegraph traffic increases have been fore-
cast at about 3% per year. Annual telex traffic is expected to increase on



- 18 -
average by about 17% per year during the five-year period FYs 76-80.
Salaries and wages are projected to grow on average by 15% per year
through FY 80.  The following table gives a summary of GPT's expected
financial performance.
FY to June 30:                    1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Net income (before interest) . million        3.8    3.4    3.8    8.1    7.8
Operating ratio  %                             82     85     85      75     78
Rate of return   %                            8.6    7.2    7.6   12.1    9.2
Average net fixed assets      0 million      44.4   47.7   50.8   67.0   85.3
Debt/equity ratio                           17/83  31/69  ho/60  46/54  49/51
Current ratio                              3.8:1  4.4:1  4.3:1  5.1 01  4.9:1
Surplus available to Government t million       -    o.6    0.6    3.1    1.6
6.10      The above table shows that the financial position of GPT's tele-
communications service should remain satisfactory over the period FYs 76-
80. A debt equity ratio of 49/51 in FY 80 would still leave a margin for
further borrowing. The forecasts also show that through the program period
the current position and debt service coverage should be satisfactory.
Nevertheless, during negotiations, the Government and GPT agreed that
GPT would not incur long-term debt for telecommunications unless the maximum
future debt service for telecommunications is covered 1.5 times by net tele-
communications revenue before charging depreciation.  Furthermore, Government
and GPT agreed that GPT would use short-term borrowing (including the use
of postaL funds) only for financing the normal working capital of telecom-
munications operations, and that such borrowing would not exceed three
months' telecommunications cash operating expenses for the preceding fiscal
year or for any preceding 12 month period, whichever is the greater.
6.11      GPT's telecommunications net income should be sufficient to
enable GPT to make small contributions to Government in FYs 77 and 78,
provided that GPT's postal service is self-supporting (see para. 6.13).
On the same hypothesis, contributions should substantially increase after
the implementation of the second tariff adjustment in FY 79; present fore-
casts indicate a return on equity of about 4-5% in FYs 79 and 80. Depend-
ing on satisfactory operating and investment policies, telecommunications
surpluses available for other purposes could increase further after FY 80.
During negotiations the Government agreed that only such part of GPT's
annual profits as would remain after reasonable provision has been made
to cover investment requirements will be available for transfer to Govern-
ment.
Postal Service
6.12      In FY 74 postal operations showed a small loss of about % 0.2
(US$0.2) million. Since then postal tariffs have been increased and in
FY 75, despite the salary increases, operations are expected to produce
a modest surplus.



- i9 -
6.13      GPT Ehould not automatically charge any future postal losses
and postal investment requirements against telecommunications surpluses;
such practices militate against operational and development efficiency,
and good financial management. It is essential that the two services be
financially autonomous and transfers of surpluses between the two be the
subject of properly prepared action, the implications of which are cri-
tically analyzed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
GPT that it would use telecommunication funds for postal purposes only
when those funds are surplus to telecommunications operational, debt
service and investment requirements. Furthermore, the Government agreed
to meet any deficit in GPT's postal services to the extent that it cannot
be met out of surplus telecommunication funds.
6.14      GPT has a postal investment program amounting to about t 2.3
(US$2.0) million; execution was to have been undertaken in FY 75; however,
owing to financial constraints following the large salary increases, the
program has been delayed and is now to be revised. Program execution will
certainly have to be spread over a longer period than originally anticipa-
ted, unless satisfactory financing arrangements from outside sources can
be made. During negotiations an understanding was obtained from GPT that
appropriate arrangements would be made for the financing of its postal
development program.  Furthermore,GPT agreed that it would not incur long
term debt for its postal services unless the maximum future debt service
for postal services is covered 1.5 times by net postal revenue before
charging depreciation.
Fiscal Impact
6.15      The financial settlement (para. 6.05) for GPT and the assumption
by Government of pre-November 1974 telecommunications investment debts
(para. 6.05) would increase the Government's equity investment in GPT by
d 21.3 (Us$18.5) million. The implications of this arrangement for the
national budget are as follows:
(i)  outflows of / 2.5 million in FY 75 to meet the cash
payment to GPT, and % 2.7 million, possibly in FY 76,
to settle GPT's debts to various Government agencies;
(ii)  an outflow of e 13.2 million over a number of years,
commencing about FY 83, for debts relating to con-
tractors financing agreements; and
(iii)  non-receipt of repayable advances due to Government
from GPT amounting to 0 2.9 million.
6.16      Present forecasts indicate that the Government could expect to
receive from GPT about d 5.8 million, during the program period, as re-
turn on its investment in GPT; contributions from GPT may even increase
further after FY 80.



- 20 -
6.17      During the program period (FYs 76-80) GPT would not pay taxes
or duties on equipment imported directly for the program, however, the
telecommunications services would finance 34% of a major program of
expansion without recourse to the national budget.
7. RECOMMENDATIDNS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the works of the ongoing program will be completed by
June 30, 1976 (para. 2.13);
(b) procurement of equipment for the project will be under-
taken directly by GPT (para. 3.09);
(c) qualified and experienced consultants will be appointed
for the detailed engineering, procurement and supervision
of construction of the project (para. 3.10);
(d) a satisfactory project control unit will be established
under the charge of a qualified and experienced project
manager (para. 3.11);
(e) Government and GPT will consult with the Bank before
filling vacancies in the posts of GPT's Director-General,
Deputy Director-General, and Financial Controller (para.
5.02);
(f) GPT will draw-up, discuss with the Bank, and implement
a program of recruitment and training of management
staff (para. 5.03);
(g) GPT will (i) undertake a review of its staff requirements,
and then consult with the Bank on the measures to be taken
to improve productivity, (ii) set targets to reduce its
staffing ratio (para. 5.04);
(h) GPT's commercial accounts system will become fully opera-
tianl in FY 76 (para. 5.07);
(i) qualified consultants will be appointed for accounting
improvements (para. 5.08);
(j) GPT's internal audit will be introduced and operating not
later than June 30, 1976 (para. 5.08);
(k) independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank will be
appointed (para. 5.09);



- 21 -
(1) Government will settle its bills for telecommunications
services promptly and in full (para. 5.10);
(m)  GPT will undertake Phase II of its program, construct the
earth satellite station, construct the PANAFTEL links,
undertake any additional capital expenditure in any one
year in excess of US$600,000 during the construction of
the project only after agreeing a financing plan with the
Bank (para. 6.07);
(n) unless otherwise agreed a rate of return of 7% per year
will be achieved in FYs 76, 77 and 78, and 9% as from
FY 79 (para. 6.08);
(o) limitations on long and short-term debts will be observed
(paras. 6.10 and 6.14);
(p) limitations on the transfer of profits to the Government
will be observed (para. 6.11);
(q) telecommunications funds will only be used for postal
purposes when those funds are surplus to telecommunica-
tions requirements (para. 6.13); and
(r) Government will meet any postal deficit to the extent that
it cannot be met out of surplus telecommunications funds
(para. 6.13).
7.02      The following conditions of effectiveness of the loan are recom-
mended:
(a) GPT should have negotiated a local loan for its ongoing
telecommunications development program (para. 6.05);
(b) a satisfactory settlement should have been made between
Government and GPT in respect of the cost of services
rendered to and by the Government in Fr 75 (para. 6.05);
and
(c) GPT should have implemented such adjustments to its
tariffs as from July 1, 1975 as will provide a 40%
increase in aggregate telecommunications revenues over
that originally forecast for FY 76 (para. 6.08).
May 21, 1975






GHMAN
PFOTS AND  EIX*IQIGATILUS COlATI  (OPT)
INTERNATIONAL TELEPhONE STATISTICS
TELEPHONES- JANUARY 1974
CHGOSS NATIONAL
P0RJLATIO    0S//Fl-ROWCT1972                             NATIONAL                              PRINCIPAL CITIES 2/                 NET OF COUNTRY
., carit.                 ~~~~~Aw. Annual
Growth Rate                          Growth Rate                                      Percentag                         Percentage
Jan. 1, 1974  ?er Capita  (1960-72)    Total No.  Per lO      (1965-74) Autowatization  Total No.  Per 100   of National Total No.  Per 100   of National
OOUJTRY              (000s)       U8               .      (000')      uatio         %           S          (00O'a)  population       j        (000'5)  Population m
AFRICA
Aioria,                      16,118        430         3.2           221      1.37          4.7         79.1            164     6.09          74          57       0.42         26
Egypt                        35,473        240         1.5           472      1.33         n.a.         92.4           299      1.88         63          173       0.88         37
Ethiopia                     27,626         80         2.6            61      0.22         11.0         88.7            49      3.44          80          12       0.05         20
Ghana                         9,443        300         0.0            52      0.55          4.8         89.8             44     2.88          84           8       0.10         16
Ivory Coast                   4,497        340         4.2            25      0.56          3.6         90.7             17     2.88         69            8       0.20         31
alawi.                        4,799        100         3.6            17       0.35         9.6         90.2              8     4.55          44           9       0.20          56
Nigeria                      70,884        130         2.0           106       0.15         5.8         76.3             61     3.20          57          45       O.07         43
Senegal                       4,203        260        (O.8)           32      0.75          2.3         92.2             29     3.37         90            3       0.10         10
Sudan                        17,567        120          -             51      0.29          3.7         91.1             45     2.95          88           6       0.04         12
Zare                         22,738        100         3.3            25       0.11         2.4         76.0             15     0.62          61          10       0.05          39
AM)3ICA
=WUMIS                  22,306      4,440         3.6        11,668      52.31         5.2         99.5          5,52    59,15           48        6,o76     47.28          52
Colomibia                    23,218        400         1.8         1,080       4.65        10.2         97.6            640     8         72  59         440    2477            41
Costa Rica                    1 917        630         3.1            89       4.62        15.2         98.2             82    10.44          93           7       0.58          7
El Salvador                   3,807        340         2.2            46       1.20         7.6         96.9             40     2.81          87           6       0.25          13
Guatemla                      5,569        420         2.2            53       0.95         8.5         100.0            53     4.94         100         -          -            -
Tinadd and Tobego               958        970         2.8            66       6.92         6.1          99.9            41    41.14          62           25      2.93          38
United State.               210,42o       5,590        3.0       137,762      65.4          45           99.9        68,419    73.35          5°       69,343     59.20          50
Venesuela                    11,5017     1,240         1.8           5o4       4.38         6.8          98.8           431      9.13         85          73       1.08          15
ASIA
Burma                        29,411         90         0.8            29       0.10         2.4          69.8            20      1.03         70            9      0.03          30
India                       588,889        110         1.1         1,590       0.27         7.7          80.7           832      2.57         52          758      0.14          48
Indonesia                   128,078         90         2.1           269       0.21         2.6          62.8           157      1.51         58          112      0.10          42
Iran                         31 753        490         6.3           553       1.74        11.8          90.8           469      5'45         85           84      0.36          15
Iraq                         10,608        370         2.7           129       1.22         7.6          92.4          0.5.      n.a.       n.a.         n.a.      0.5f.       n.a.
Japan                       109 316       2,320        9.4        38,696      35.40        12.2          94.5        16,71i    42.61          43       21,987      31.37         57
Malaysia                     11,421        430         3.1           234       2.05         6.8          95.3          n.5.      n.a.       n.0.         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Nepal                        11,453         80         0.7             9       0.08        11.8          76.2             9      2.97         99         -           -            1
Pakistan                     67,353        130         3.3           195       0.29         5.0          83.0           140      1.49         72           55      0.10          28
Philippines                  39,451        220         2.2           410       1.04        10.5          97.6           342      4.23         83           68      0.22          17
Singapore                     2,202      1,300         7.1           250      11.36        12.2         100.0           250    11.36         100                    -            -
Syria                         6,890        320         3.4           143       2.08         7.1          89.4           121      5.23         85           22      0.48          15
Thailand                     40,700         220        4.6           265       o.65        15.0          94.6           210      4.89         79           55       0.15         21
EUROPE
France                       52,923       3,620        4.9        11,337      21.66         7.1          91.4         7,255    46.76          64        4,082      10.91         36
Germany (Fed, Rop.)          61,965       3,390        3.7         17 803     28.73         8.1         100.0         7 810    44.39          44        9 993      22.52         56
Sweden                        8,144      4 480         3.2         4,984      61.20         3.9         100.0         2,416    72.95          48        2,568      53.13         52
Switzerland                   6,501       3,940        2.9         3,604      55.44         5.4         100.0         1,728    73.01          48        1,876      45,37         52
United Kingdor               56,064       2,600        2.3        19 095      34.06         6.7          99.6         7,665    44.33          40       11,430      29.48         60
Yugoslavis                   21,039        810         4.8         1,004       4.77         10.5         97.4           496    16.13          49          538       2.83         51
OCEANIA
Australia                    13,176       2,980        3.1          4,659     35.36          5.7         94.8          3,210    37.73         69        1,449      31.04         31
FiJi                            551        270         2.7            23       4.09         8.3          86.9            13    16.16          55           10       2.16         45
New Zealand                   3,043       2,560        2.1          1,411     46.35          3.9         92.0          1,o66    51.23          76         345      35.81          24
Fapua New Guinea              2,491        290         5.6            32       1.30        14.3          97.6            24    17.01          74            8       o.36         26
SG1jRCES:
1. G.N.P.,  World Sank Atlas 1974
2. Telephone Statiotics: World's Telephones by AT&T (January 1, 1974)
NOTES:
P/ Population at January 1, 1974 derived fr-e the "Total Telephones" and "Telephoneo per 100 Population" appearing in A '&T's publication 'World Telephones"(JanuarY 1, .74)
'/ "Principal Cities" ere those considered principal cities in 'World Telephones" (January 1, 1974) except for United States ,here principal cities are those of
100,000 s-d over population eppearing in "World Telephones" (Janoary 1, 1974)
n.s.: not available



GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
ORGANIZATION CHART
(TELECOMM&UNICATIONS)
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DIRECTOR                       DIRECTOR
FINANCIAL         ENGINEERING                    ENGINEERING            DIRECTOR
CONTROLLER        EXTERNAL TELE-                  INTERNAL TELE-        POSTAL
COMMUNICATIONS                 COMMUNICATIONS
INVESTIGATION         INTERNAL           CHIEF              DEPUTY DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR            DIETRCHIEF OF
BRANCH                AUDIT               ACCOUNTANT        ENGINEERING            ENGINEERING         EGNEIGAMNSRTO
SECTION                                                                                             ADMINISTRATIONING 
REGIONAL   .      REGIONAL         REGIONAL        REGIONAL       REGIONAL           REGIONAL        REGIONAL        REGIONAL          REGIONAL
DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR         DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR
METROPOLITAN      ASHANTI          WESTERN         CENTRAL        BRONG AHAFO        VOLTA           NORTHERN        UPPER REGION      EASTERN
ACCRA.            KUMASI           TAKORADI        CAPE COAST     SUNYANI            HO              TAMALE          BOLGA TANGA       KOFORIDUA
1Jorld Bank-9672



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2 pages
GHANA
POSTS AND T LECOMMUICATIONS OORPORATION (GPT)
Basic Statistical Data
June 30, 197.
A. Economic
1.  Population                                 9.1 million (mid 1972)
2.  GNP per capita in US$                                 300
B.  Domestic Facilities
1. Local Network
Accra                                 Automatic
Exchanges                                3
Lines installed                     19,800
Lines connected (DEL's)             12,124
Telephones                          25,578
Exchange fill                            0.61
Regional Network                      Automatic               Manual
Exchanges                               13                   415
Lines imntalled                     17,000                    _
Lines connected (DEL's)             11,288                  5,718
Telephones                          18,704                  7,649
Exchange fill                            o.66
2. Long Distance Network
Installed capacity channels                  1,024
Number of long distance circuits               494
Circuit miles                               45,692
3. Telegraph and Telex
Telegraph offices
(a)  Postal agency (Morse)                  306
(b)  GP offices                             185
Point-to-point circuits                         62
Leased circuits                                 12
Telex exchanges                                  1
Lines installed                                200
Lines connected                                192



ANNE 3
Page 2 of 2 pages
C. International Facilities
Radio telephone circuits               11
Radio telegraph circuits                 8
Telex circuits                          17
Leased telegraph circuits               12
D. Staff
Telecommunications staff            4,100
Number of staff per 1,000              78
telephones
March 24, 1975



ANNZ !L
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
International Circuits
Circuits            Telephone    Telex    Telegraph    Leased Telegraph
Abidjan                  1           1          1               1
Addis Ababa              1           -          2.
Bamako                   1           -         -                -
Bathurst                 1           -          -               -
Dakar                    1           -          -               -
Frankfurt                -                      2.              -
Freetown                 2           1          1               1
Lagos                    2           2          2               -
Lome                     1           1          2.
London                   1          12          2              10
Nairobi                  2           -          -               -
Ouagadougou              2.
TOTAL     11           17         8               12
March 6, 1975



Afl1TEX 5
Page 1 of 5 pages
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONJS CORPORATION (GPT)
Description of the Program and Project
GPT's telecommunications development program for the period
FY's 76-80 comprises:
A.   rehabilitation and expansicn of domestic telecommunication
services; this part will be executed in two Phases of which the
first is the Bank project;
B.   establishment of an earth satellite station for international
telecommunications; and
C.   establishment of microwave links as a part of the Pan African
telecommunication network system to Togo and Ivory Coast.
These three parts are described below:
PART A REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF DOMESTIC TELECOMMUNICATION
SERVICES
PHASE I--The Bank Financed Project
Phase I, the execution of which is planned for FY's 76-79, con-
sists of the most urgent works of rehabilitation and expansion,
and would form the physical component of the proposed Bank
project0 It includes:
(aL) Local Telephone Exchanges
Installation of new telephone exchanges and expansion of
existing exchanges for about 18,300 lines, including the necessary
buiildings with air-conditioning, distributed as follows:
(:i) Three new automatic exchanges in the Accra areat
Accra Central II     8,000 lines   )
Cantonement II       6,oo0  it    ) 15,000 lines
Nungua/Teshi         1,000   t    )
These will be interfaced with the existing automa.tic exchanges
in Accra North (Phillips UR49). The existing 6,ooo lines
exchange at Central and 3,000 lines of the equipment at
Cantonement exchange, which are worn out, will be replaced by
the new exchanges.
(ii) An additional automatic exchange:
Takoradi II          1,000 lines
This exchange will be interfaced with existing British
step-by-step automatic exchange.



ANNEX 5
page 2 of 5 pages
(iii)   Expansion of existing automatic exchanges:
Ho         (Philips UR49A)   400 lines    )
Sunyani    (Philips UR49A)   400   "        )
(iv)   Five new automatic exchanges with a capacity of 1,500
lines to replace manual exchanges of about 600 lines in
secondary eenters.
The existing and proposed new exchange equipment, with
type and capacity, are listed on page 5 of this annex.
(b)   Local Distribution Network
Rehabilitation and expansion of the outside plant, includ-
ing ducts, local and junction cables, distribution boxes and
subscribers installations for about 16,000 lines.
(c)   Long Distance Service
(i)   Expansion and improvement of the microwave system includ-
ing necessary buildings and access roads for a new system
of 300-channel capacity between Takoradi and Kumasi
(1l40 miles):
(ii)   Addition of multiplex and STD equipment for increased
channel capacity to handle increased traffic;
(iii)   Addition of two VHF radio systems including necessary
buildings and access roads at:
Koforidua-Mpraeso-Nkawka--57 miles, 24 channels
Ho-Hohoe--50 miles, 24 channels
(iv)   Reconstruction of overhead trunk route, Akropong-Mampong-
Akwapim using copper-covered steel wire with installation
of carrier systers.
Details of the existing and proposed new long distance
work are shown on the Map.
(d)   Telex
Telex automatic exchanges, together with the necessary
teleprinters and accessory equipment for:
Kumasi    50 lines
Accra    250   "     (expansion of the existing exchange)



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5 pages
Semi-automatic operation will be introduced for the
international telex working from Accra.
(d)   Other Items
(i)   Experts and/or consultants for detailed engineering,
procurement and assistance in supervision and commercial
accounting improvements and training:
(ii)   Vehicles.
PHASE II
(a)   Local Telephone Service
Installation of about 9,200 lines of automatic exchange
equipment which will consist of extension of the new Cantonement
Exchange (Phase I 6,000  lines) by additional 2,000 lines and
new Takoradi Exchange (Phase I 1,000 lines) by additional 1,000
lines and Teshi Nungua (Phase I 1,000 lines) by additional
1,000 lines and the rest by new equipment at a number of stations
in Ghana. These will also include necessary buildings, outside
plant and subscribers installations.
(b)   Long Distance Service
Additional multiplex and long distance STD equipment on
existing routes, installation of a VHF route Enchi-Tarkwa and
rehabilitation of open wire systems on five routes in the country.
*(c)  Telex
Telex exchanges of 50 lines each for Takoradi and Tema.
(d)   Other Items
(i)   PABX equipment.
(ii)   Vehicles.
(iii)   Consulting services for detailed engineering, procurement
and assistance in supervision,
PART B  ESTABLISHMENT OF AN EARTH SATELLITE STATION FOR INTERNATIONAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
This part includes the supply and installation of an earth
station at Kuntunse on the Accra-Nsawam road and a radio link between Accra
and Kuntunse. The earth station would work with the Atlantic Ocean



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5 pages
satellite. It will be a standard Intelsat-type of earth station with
a steerable 90-100 foot antenna.  Demand Assignment facilities are
planned. The necessary buildings, power plant and auxiliary facilities
will be provided. The station when completed is expected to provide
for 18 circuits to three groups of countries with 4 channels to USA,
9 circuits to UK and 5 circuits to Europe.   These are telephone type
circuits and will provide for required telex, public telegraph and
leased circuit requirements. Facilities for automatic working on the
international telephone circuits are also planned for. Nippon
Telecormunication Consulting Co. (NTCC) are employed as consultants
for this scheme.
PART C ESTABLISHMENT OF MICROWAVE LINKS FOR PAN-AFTEL SYSTEM
This part covers Ghanats section of the Pan-Aftel Telecommunica-
tion system, planned by the ITU for West Africa. This involves installa-
tion of wide band microwave systems in the section Lome-Accra-Abidjan in
Ghanaian territory to link with Togo and Ivory Coast.   The microwave
links will be 1+1 type with the possibility of adding a television
channel. Provision is being made for initial capacity as follows:
Accra-Lome--about 84 channels
Accra-Abidjan--about 72 channels
The system includes necessary buildings, access roads, power supplies
and cable links to terminals and installation. The system has been
engineered by SOFRECOM consultants employed by the International
Telecommmnication Union (ITU).



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5 pages
Exchange, Equipment, Type, and Capacity
(ng2oin_roara  and, an sisecit)
FYs 1976-1979
Proposed
Existing Capacity  Addl.Capacity        Year           Capacity
Exchange Name      Type         on June 30, 1974   or Replacement  Comnissioning  After Project
Accra
Cantonement    ';trowger              3,800            6OoO/           1978             6,000
Central         'Strowger             6,000            8,00oo/            1978            8,000
North          UR49A                 10,000            2,000**              -            12,000
Nungua/Teshie      -                    -              1,000              1978            1,000
SUB TOT'AL                 19,800            17,000                            27,000
Kumasi          Strowger, UR49        5,600               -                 -             5,600
Takoradi        Strowger, UR49        1,800             1,2003/           1978            3,000
Cape Coast      Strowger, UR4h9       1,000               -                 -             1,000
Sekondi         S'trowger             1,000                                 -             1,000
Ho              Strowger                600               40o             1977            1,000
STwedr         Strowger                 300               _                 -               300
Sunyani         Strowger                600               400            1977             1,000
Koforidua       Strowger              1,000               -                 -             1,000
Akosombo        Strowger                600               -                 -               600
Konongo         Strowger                200               -                 -               200
Tamale          Strowger              1,000               -                 -             1,000
Tema            ]3flF6, UR49          3,000                                 -             3,000
Bolgatanga     IJR49                 _300                 -                 -               300
SUB TOT'AL                 17,000             2,000                            19.000
Tarkwa                                   2LhOM            600AR           1977              600
Dunkwa              -                   160M             400AR            1977              400
Obuasi              -                     8014            200h           1977              200
Bekwai              -                    80M             200AR           1977               200
Denu                -                    4oM              lOOAR           1977              100
IvJenchi            -                                     100**           1977              100
Bawku               -                   -100*                             1976              100
Mampong-Ashanti    -                                      200**           1976              200
Wa                  -                    -                100**           1976              100
STJB TOTAL*                   600M            2,000AR                           2 000
GRAND TOTAL      48,o0o
tMinor manual exchanges not included.
*Works forming part of ongoing program.
%   3,000 lines out of this are for replacement of existing equipment.  800 lines of mobile
equipment will be relocated.
j 6,ooo lines out of this are for replacement of existing equipment.
200 lines out of this are being added as part of ongoing program.
M   -  Manual exchanges
AR - Replacement of existing manual or automatic exchanges.
March 24, 1975



GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR                       1975                   1976                  1977                  1978                  1979                  1980
BUILDINGS                                        B
Design                                                         8
Bidding                                                                           12
Construction
EXCHANGES                                              12
Design.
Bidding & Contract                                                                                     18
Reception of Materials                                           12
Installation and Commissioning                                                                                                -
OUTSIDE PLANT                                     8
Design                                         _
Building & Contract                                                                          18
Reception of Materials
Installation and Commissioning
18
LONG DISTANCE NETWORK                                 12
Design
Bidding & Contract                                                                               9
Reception of Materials                                           12
Installation and Commissioning                                                                            12_
World Bank-9671                    UN
Figures on or under bars reflect length of poriod in mornths.



CENAX9
P0TS.AIJELTEl OQIUNICAU0MNS CORPORATION (GPT)
Telecommunications Construction   rka (FYT 1975-1980)-Cost Estimates
(in thoasads o  hnian cedio
1975                    1976                     1977                     1978                     1979                      1980                      Total
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Fore.ig   Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreis  Total                    Local Fcreign  Total
A. PHASE I WGHESTIC REHABILITATION
& EXPANSION (Bank-fiaana,d Proseat)
1. Building including aircondition-
ing                                          -        -      -      559    890   1,449       510   1,130   1,640      611     400   1,011        -       -       -        _       _       _       1,680   2,?20   4,100
2. Automatic exchange equipmant                  -        -      _        -    380    380        180   1,940   2,120      100   2 900  3,000       100     590    690         _       _       -         380   5,810  6,190
3. Local netwrks                                 -        -      -      306    500    806        459   2,500   2,959      459   2,000   2,459      306   1,390   1,696        -    -                  1,530   6,390   7,920
4. Subscribar plant                              -        -      -        -    200      200      180    500      680      100    b00    500        100     380     4a8        _       _                 380   1,480   1,860
5. Long diatanee eyaet                           -        -      -        -    250      250      560   1,100   1,660      560     800   1,360      310     410     720        -       -        -      1,430   2,560   3,990
6. Tlax                                          _        _      _        _    300      300       50    0OO      950       50       -      50        -       -       -        _       _       _         100  1,200   1,300
7. Vehicles                                      _        _      _              200    200         -    200      200        -     100    100         -       -       -        -       -       -           -     500     500
8. Miscelanue                                    -        -      -       80     250    330        70    360      430       70    250    320         70    300      370        _       _       _         290   1,160   1,450
9. Conaultants                                  15       50    65        60    300      360       75    350      425       50      70    120        50      70    120         -       _                 250     840   1,090
10. Contingeiaa                                   -        -      -              670      50      46  1,.190   2,296       700    920   1,620        44     760                                               4 -  -  -  L40 4.20 0
Total Phasa I (Project)                  13       3d          7 I                                       3,360 10-   f   3    ,     3    6 0                               7      3             7.280 3
B. PHASE II DO1STIC RIABILITATION
& EXPAUSION
1. Building including aircmditioning             -        -      -        -       -       -        -       -       -      220      50    270       220     150    370         -       -       -        440      200     640
2. Automatic axchang. equipment                  -            -       -       -           -        -       -       -       80    650      730      120   1,500   1,620       50     950   1,000        250  3,100  3,350
3.  Local netorke                               -                                                                 -     200    600       800      550   1,400   1,950       50     91O     960        800   2,910  3,710
4. Subsoribar plant                              -                                                   _                     50      90    140        30     200    230        20     100     120         100    390    490
5-. Long distance  sateN                          -                                       -                               100    300    400        550    650   1,200       150     400     550        800   1,350   2,150
-6.Teles                                          -        -      -        -       -       -        -                       40     200    240         -     100    100         -     100     100         40     400     440
7. Vehicles                                      -                                        -                                 -     230    230         -     200     200        -       -       -           -     430     430
8. Misellaneous                                  -        -      -        -       -       -        -       -       -      100     150    250       300     300    600       150     210     360        550      660   1,210
9. Consultants                                   -         -     -        -       -                -       -              100     200    300        40     250    290        ho     180     220         180    630      810
10.  Conting iesn                                                              -        -       -       -                  1         0    480       240             1                          0        630   2,010   2.640
Total PhaBe II                                                                      _ _                  =                                                         __          _                      150
C. BSTABLISEM1NT F EARTH STATION FOR
SATEILISE COMIICATIONS
1. Civil.,orks                                   -        -      -        -       -70                      -     710        -                                                                           740 -  -  -      -  710  740
2.  Satellite terminal equipment                 -        -      -        -       -       -       70   1,105   1,475      120   1,125   1,545      160   1,750   1,910        -       -       -        350   4,580   4,930
3. Terreatial link to Actra                     _         -      -        _                    ....- 3°    845   875       70     40    4            -       _                                                        1.145
Total earth eatellite station                            _ _ _                 =                                 _49__   _      52 
D. PAN-AFRICAN MIC3VA1E SYSTBN
TOGO-I901T OOAST
1. Civil wrkcs                                   -        -      -        -       -       -        -                      238       -    238         _       _                                          238       -     238
2. Radio and multiplar equipment                  -       -      _                -       _        _       _       _        _    480    480          -     180 4 80 4o7                     171           -  1,131   1,1434
3.  Installation                                 -36                                                                              149               78     134     212       24      117                         40    538
-  -     -       -   ~~~~~~--e    -ese            78           __ ___3                               -.+   ~ 3      2,
Total PANAFTEL links                                               24                                               376    11                       131      2.210
TOTALPROGRAM                      15       50    65    1,095   3.940   5.035    L&3  13|120  16.450    4.201  13.094  17.298    3.268  11.914  15.212         724   4.191   4.1        12.636  46,339  58.975
B. ONGOING WR1S
1.  Internal swvices                           638    2,791  3,429    1,925   1,05   5,940                                                  -        -                                        -       2,563   6,8o6   9,369
2.  External services                          249      625   874    1,461      479   1,940        -       -       -        -       -       _        -       _       _        _       _       _      1,710   1,104   2,814
3.  Binr works                                 320       50   370       600    600   1 200                                                 1-                                                                   6 - --570
Total ongoing works                   TIM3.986                           09    90 =_ =   =                           -       - =   _   _   _   =   8                                 -
Total omtroction  Ts 1975-1980         1,222    3,516 4,738   5,081   93        111    330  13.120  16.450    o201  13.094                 ,2    11,941    15212     7224   61.91   lo    17,82  54.89   72.728
March 4, 1975



ANNEX 8
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                       at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1975/76
December 31, 1975                              75
March 31, 1976                                 75
June 30, 1976                               2,800
1976/77
September 30, 1976                          4t,000
December 31, 1976                           5,000
March 31, 1977                              6,000
June 30, 1977                               8,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                          9,000
December 31 , 1977                         11,000
March 31, 1978                             13,000
June 30, 1978                              15,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                         17,000
December 31, 1978                          18,000
March 31, 1979                             19,000
June 30, 1979                              21,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                         22,000
December 31, 1979                          23,000
May 13, 1975



ANNEX 9
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
Internal Rate of Return of the Project
1.        A conservative estimate of the internal rate of return on the
project is 18%; this rate is the discount rate which equalizes the stream
of GPT's expected revenues attributable to project with the capital and
operating costs, excluding of taxes and duties. The table below presents
the cost and benefit stream relating to the project over a period of 25
years. Revenues attributable to the project were derived from an appor-
tionment of the forecast revenues in the Income Statements (Annex 10)
and their further projections for FYs 1981 through 2000. Operating costs
for the project have likewise been obtained by the apportionment of the
operating expenses (other than depreciation) given in Annex 10 and fur-
ther expenses projected from FYs 1981 through 2000.
Capital      Operating       Total
FY         Cost          Costs        Costs       Revenue
------     (in thousands of  )7----------------
1976       5,100                       5,too
1977      13,360           -          13,360            -
1978      1o,540           -          10,5)0          530
1979       h,880           345         5,225        1,400
1980           -           687           687        4v534
1981           -         l,ooo         1,000        8,451
1982           -         1,269         1,269       10,456
1983           -         1,695         1,695       11,210
1984-2000      -         2,119         2,119       11,295
2.        Should revenues and costs each vary +10% the rate of return
would be between 16 and 20%.
3.        Assuming a notional 30% surcharge on the imported componet of
the capital investment (to reflect the scarcity of foreign exchange in
Ghana) the rate of return on the project would be 15%.
May 16, 1975



ANNEX 1 0
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
Statements of Income - FYs 1974-1980-
(   thousands of Ohanian cedis)
Year ending June 30:                   1974-    1975/3                      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980
REVENUE
Telephone - installation fees                                         171        275                        285      315       355       365       315
- rental                                                 1,459     1,540                      1,630    1,750    1,935    2,140    2,345
- calls - local & long distance                          6,950     7,256                      7,654    8,210    8,933    9,850   10,702
- international                                   603        680                        680       715      750       785    1,15?5
- directory                                                 52         35                         55       38        58        40       60
- other                                                     77         40                         40       40        50        50       50
Telegraph - national                                                  487        500                        515      530       545       560      575
- international                                          1,756      1,865                     1,950    1,950    2,010    2,070    2,070
Telex      - rental                                                   128        156                        157      192       255       321      379
- calls                                                  1,253      1,520.                    1,576    1,839    2,308    2,798    3,232
- leased circuits                                          189        189                        200      200       220       230      240
- other                                                     13         12                         13       16        20        25        28
Miscellaneous                                                         325        438                       480       530       580       640      700
Total                                            13,463    14,506                      15-235   1  32    18,019   19,874   21.851
Revenues from rate change - FY 1976                                     -          _                      6,o95    6,53o    7,210    7,950    8,740
- FY 1979                                                                                            -    4,730    5,200
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE             13.463    14.506                      21I 30   222855        229    2,.551s   3&.791
RXPENDITURE
Salaries & wages                                                   4,722       8,000                     9 200   10 580   12,170   1  995   16,095
Other operating expenses                                            3,822     4,016                      4,h433    4 ,560    4,566      , 776    4,976
Inter service - charges                                               574        775                       850       935    1,030    1,130    1,240
- recharges                                          (104)      (140)                      (155)      170)      (185)    (205)    (225
9,014    12,651                     14,328   15,905   17,581   19,696   22,086
Deepreciation                                                       2,472     2.731                      3.159    3.500    3.804    4,786    5.894
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES            11 486    15,382                       14117   19,405   21,385   24,4h2    7,980
NET IIXCOE (before interest)                                          1,977       (876)                     3,843    3,45O    3,844    8,072    7,811
Less: interest                                                          -          -                        542    1,I405    2,360    3,443    4l426
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                                                     1,977       (876)                     3,301    2,045    1,4i84i   4,629    3,385
Less:  transferred to Government                                      _-                                      -      650       450    3,145    1,600
NET SURPLIUS (DEFICIT)                                                1.977       (876)                     3,301    1'395    !03h4    1k484    1,785
Average net fixed assets                                             35,051    38,396                     44,355   47,680   50,827   66,978   85,318
Rate of return                                                         6.97,         -                       8.6%     7.2%      7.6%    12.1%      9.2%
Operating ratio                                                          85        106                         82       85        85       75        78
/1  For notes and assumptions on these accounts see Annex 14.
/2  FY 74 statement relates entirely to P&T Department operations.
/3  17 75 statement includes P&T operations - July 1, 1974 to October 31, 1974
and GPT operations - Novembor 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975.
May 16, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2 pages
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECO0MMNICATION3 CORPORATION (GPT)
ReDresentative Tariffs
(in Ghana 0)
1. Telephone
a. Installation charge
i.  Main telephone                                           31.25
ii.  Extension                                                 6.25
b. Line rental per annum (within two miles
radial distance of exchange)                    Business   Residence
i. Manual exchange
1-20 subscribers                            30.00      20.00
21-50 subscribers                            36.oo      20.00
51-100 subscribers                           4o.00      20.00
more than 100 subscribers                    4h.00      20.00
ii.  Automatic exchanges                           50.00      25.00
iii.  Auxiliary lines to PBX                           80% of above
iv.  Extension
a.  Tnternal - up to 110 yds.                            10.50
- each additional 110 yds.                   2.25
b.  External - up to 220 yds.                            15.00
- each additional 220 yds.                  3.00
v., Private line - within two-miles radius                   25.00
- exceeding two-miles radius                30.00
c. Call charges
i.  Local - unlimited time                                    0.05*
- coin box                                          0.07
ii.  Long-distance (per 3-minute duration)
Full rate             Manual      _________-
0-10 miles          0.050      0 -  20 miles    0.100
11-20   "-005
20-30   I            0.125
31-4o                o 0.165
h1-50   "            0.235     21 -  50 miles    0.225
51-75   "            0.300
76-1o00  ". 0h.O               51 - 100 miles    0.450
101-150               0 0.500
151-200  '            0.635
201-300               0.765
301-       or more    0.900     over 100 miles    0.563
Cheap rate (6 pm to 6 am) for
most distances - 50% of full rate
*The pulse is the metering unit.  For local service each call is metered as
one pulse; for long distance the number of pulses are determined by the
exact duration of the call and the distance between the communication points.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2 pages
2. Telex
a.  Annual rental - complete telex installation                  1,110.00
3. Telegraph - Inland message rate
a. Ordinary telegrams -
First 12 words                                                 0.25
Each additional word                                           0.02
b. Press telegrams -
First 48 words                                                 0.15
Each additional three words                                    0.01
February 26, 1975



ANNEx 12
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
Balance Sheets  FYs 1974-1980-
(in thousands of Ghanian cedis)
As of June 30:                  1974-   1975                    1976       1977       1978      1979       1380
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                            53,655   60,155                 71,463    73,463,  85,063   113,145   131,215
Less:  depreciation                                          ,17143   19,874                  23.033    26 533    30,337    33i915    39,809
Net fixed assets                                      36,512   40,281                 48,430    46,930    54,726    79,230    91,406
Works in progress                                             _6068    4,241                   7,113    21,563    27,261    13,183        8,528
Other assets - inventories                                     4,720    1,600                  2 000      2,250     2,700      3,000      3.300
Current assets
Cash                                                           250      345                  2,446      3,474     3,387      4,728      b,337
Subscribers accounts - private (net)                         2,784    2,211                  2,570      2,780     2,995      3,605      3,880
- Government                              -       900                 1,240      1,330      1,400     1,63c      1,735
Sundry debtors - paymtents in advance                        1,530      940                    945      1,020     1,102      1,190      1,285
Total current assets                                   4564    4,396                    7,201     8,60,      8,884    11,153    11,237
TCOTAt ASSETS                          51,864   50,518                 64,744    79,347    93,571   106,566   1t4,471
LIABILITIES
Capital                                                       41,477   49,305                 49,305    49,305    49,305    45,,3U5    45,,ju5
Surn'us                               (584)-2.7?                                                          17 4,112  5,146      6,630  3,415
Total equity                                          41.477   48,721                  52,022    53,417    54,451    55,935.    570,Th
Long-term debt
Local loan                                                       -         _                 7,000      7,000     7,000      6,462      5,924
IBRD loan - proposed                                                                         3,810    14,710    22,550    26,450    2d,450
Loan - second phase                                              -         -                     -          -     2,800      8,480    12,080
- earth satellite station                                   -        -                      -     2,250      4,075     5,825      5,178
- PANAETEL link                                             -        -                      -         -        629      1,243     1,834
- future program                                            -        -                                                      -     1000
Total long-term  debt                                       -         -                10,840    23,960    37,054    48,460    5L,466
Current liabilities
Government advances                                          2,963                                    -               -          -
Post office funds                                            2,657                    -                     -         -          -          -
Equipment suppliers                                          2,482      550                    595       640        690        745        805
Sundry creditors                                             1,041      497                    537       580        626        676        730
Receipts in advance                                            786      750                    750        750       750        750        750
TIuter-service operations                                      458        -
Total current liabilities                             10,387    1.797                  1 882      1.970      2,066      2,171     2 85
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      51  64   50,518                  6,7       79,37    93,571   106,566   1I,471
Current ratio                                                    0 4:1    2.4,1                  3.801      4.411     4.3:1      5.1 :1     L.9:1
Debtle,uity ratio                                                -/100    -/100                  17/83      31/69      40/60     46/54      1,9/51
/1  Estimated dexicit re'Lating to November 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975; deficit for July 1, 1974 to October 31, 1974 has been included in
capital.
/2 For notes and assumptions on these accounts see Annex 11.
/3 FY 74 Balance Sheet relates to P&T Department.



ANNEX 13
GRA;A
POSTS AND TRLECONMtlliICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
TELECONWUNICATIONS SERVICES
Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds - FYs 1975-1980
(in thousands of Ghanian cedis)
Year ending June 30:                        1975/                  1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income before interest                                     (876)                 3,843     3,45O     3,844      8,072     7,811
Depreciation                                                  2 731                  L159      . 3500    3,804      4,786     5,894
tt85                   7,002     6.5        ,4        2oO      13,705
Goverrmient contribution - cash                                 2,500                                      -                         -
- transfers to equity                 5.620
E,120                      _       -         -                    -
Borrowings
Local loan - ongoing works                                        -                  7,Au-                    -         -
IBRD       - first phaae                                          -                 3,840    10,870      7,840      3,900          -
Loan       - second phase                                         -                      -         -      2,800     5,680      3,600
- earth satellite station-                            -                      -     2,250      1,825     1,750          -
- PANAFITEL links                                     -                      -          -       629        614       591
- future program                                      _                      _          _         _                3.000
Total borrowings                                    _                    -       13,120    13.094    11.944      7.191
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS 95                                 17.82    20.70            2    L         20.896
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction works
Ongoing works                                                 4,673                  9,080         -                               -
Program - first phase                                            65                  5,035    13,360    10,540      4,880
- second phase                                                                  -          -     3.840     7.730      4,300
- earth satellite station                                _                            3,090      2,015      1,910         -
- PANAFTEL links                                                                      -            903        692       615
Future vrogram                                              _                            _         _          _         _     8B500
Total construction                                                    ls1815    16,450    17.298    15,212    13
Tnventories - increase (decrease)                              (3Q120)                   400       250        450       300        300
Debt service - auortization
Local loan                                                                               -         -          -       538        538
IBRD loan (proposed)
Loan - earth satellite station                                                                                                   64
Total amortization                                  _                      _          _
Debt service - interest
Local loan                                                                             315       630        630       606        557
IBRD loan (proposed)                                                                   227       679      1,223     1,803     2,220
Loan - second phase                                                                      -         -        199       527        887
- earth satellite station                                                          -         96       269        421       440
- PANAFTEL link                                                                               -        39         86       132
- future program                                            _                                                              190
Total interest                                                                              2           ,        .
Total debt service                                ____ 532__-5 31 
Transfer to Government                                            _                                650        45O     3,145      1,600
Working capital - increase (decrease)
Cash                                                             95                  2,101     1,028        (87)    1,341       (391)
Subscribers - Private                                          (573)                   359       210        215       610        275
- Government                                       900                    340        90         70       230        105
Sundry debtors                                                 (655)                    70        75        B2         88         95
Government advances                                           2,963                      -         -
Post office funds utilized                                    2,657                                           -         -
E-uipment suppliers                                           1,932                    (45)      (45)       (50)      (55)       (69)
Sundry creditors                                               544                     (40)      (43)       (46)      (50)       (54)
Receipts in advance                                              36                      -         -          -         -
Irter- service operations                                      458
8.357                  2,785     1.,315       184     2,164        (30)
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS         9975                       2    20070    2072    2,802    20.896
Debt service coverage - times                                       n.a.                  12.9       4.9        3.2       3.2        2.4
/1 FY 75 statement includes P&T operations - July 1, 19714 to October 31, 1974
and GPT operations - November 1, 197h to June 30, 1975.
May 16, 1975



ANMIEX 14
Page 1 of )1 pages
GHANA
POSTS AND T OELECO4UICATIQON  CO2PORATION (GPT)
TELECYL4UNICATI9.15 SERVICES
Notes and Assumptions on the Financial Statements
1.        The Statements of Tncome and the Balance Sheets for FY 74 are
primarily based on draft pro-forma accounts prepared by GPT's financial
consultants; however, after discussion with the consultants and GPT's
senior management staff, changes were made in those accounts to reflect
additional information which was brought to light during the appraisal.
The following data relates to the main items of the accounts shown in
Annexes 10 and 12.
2.        Statements of Income - Annex 10
Revenue
(i) Telephone
(a)  Forecasts of revenue from domestic services in FYs 75-80
have been prepared after taking into account (i) the
number of telephone lines estimated to be put into
service in each FY; (ii) subscribers ancilliary instal-
lations to be put into service in each FY; (iii) the
estimated effect on revenue of the additional traffic
following improvements in long distance facilities; and
(iv) a reduction of calling rate as lower-usage subscri-
bers are connected.
(b)  Forecasts of revenue from international services take
into account (i) the additional revenue from the in-
creased domestic network, and (ii) the improved facil-
ities, particularly the introduction of the earth satel-
lite station and the PANAFTEL links.
(ii)  Telegraph - During FYs 75-80 both domestic and international
telegraph traffic is expected to increase on average at about
3% per year.
(iii)  Telex
(a) Forecasts of telex revenue are based on the estimated
year-by-vear lines in service.
(b) Leased circuit revenue is expected to increase on average
by about 5% per year during FYs 75-80.



ANNEX 1 
Page 2 of 4 pages
(iv)  Miscellaneous revenue is expected to increase at a rate of 10%
per year.
(v) Revenues from rate change - FY 76 - Since telephone installation
fees and international telephone, telex and telegraph charges
were increased on September 1, 1974 (FY 75), it has been assumed
that the proposed increase in tariffs as from July 1, 1975 will
fall on telephone rental, local and long distance call charges;
a rate increase of hO% on these items has been assumed.
(vi)  Revenues from rate change - FY 79 - An overall 20% increase of
tariffs (other than miscellaneous) has been assumed as from
July 1, 1978.
Expenditure
(vii) Salaries & wages - have on average been estimated to increase
at 1% per year from FY 75 through FY 80.
(viii) Other operating expenses - comprise a large number of items which
have been estimated to increase at varying percentages (5-30%)
through FY 80; however maintenance spares, the largest item of
expense, which represented about 46% of the total of other opera-
ting expenses in FY 74, is expected to decrease by 16% over the
period to FY 80.
(ix)  Inter-service charges - relate to work done by the postal service
for the telecommunications services.
(x) Inter-service recharges - relate to work done by the telecommu-
nications service for the postal service.
(xi)  Depreciation - has been charged on average gross fixed assets
in operation at a composite yearly rate of L.85.
(xii) Interest - The assumed terms of the loans included in the finan-
cial plan are as follows:
Local loan -  9%           - 15 years including 3 years grace
IBIRD proposed loan - 8-2% - 25 years including 5 years grace
Loan: Phase II -           - 25 years including 5 years grace
Earth satellite station-8 <g-12 years including 3 years grace
PANAFIEL links -81-- 25 vears including 5 years grace
Future program-loan-8  -25 years including 5 years grace.
(xiii)  Transfers to Government - relate to sums available for payment to
Government as a return on Government investment.



ANITEX 1L
Page 3 of L pages
3.        Balance Sheets - Annex 12
Assets
(i) Gross fixed assets - have been increased yearly to bring into
account new assets brought into service. In FY 79 an appro-
priate allowance has been made for assets withdrawn from
service.
(ii)  Depreciatior. - comprises the accumulated depreciation provision.
In FY 79 adjustment has been made for assets withdrawn from
service.
(iii)  Work in progress - has been calculated in relation with Program
construction schedule at the end of each year.
(iv)  Inventories - FY 74 balance includes a large amount of materials
which will be withdrawr. in FY 75 for GPT's ongoing orogram.
Balances from FY 75 onwards have been estimated in relation to
the scale of GPT's operations.
(v) Cash - has been related, as far as possible, to GPT's liquid
working capital needs.
(vi)  Subscribers accounts - private (net) - relate to sums due from
subscribers for telecommunications services. In estimating
these figures it has been assumed that GPT will progressively
improve its collection record; due allowance has been made for
the increased balances which will arise from the tariff increases
in FYs76 and 79. Bad debt reserves have been adjusted annually.
(vii) Subscribers accounts - Government - relate to sums due from
Government in respect of telecommunication services. All such
Government debts as of June 30, 1974 have been written-off
against equity capital as at that date. From FY 75 onwards
it has been assumed that the Government will regularly settle
its debts as they become due.
(viii) Sundry debtors - payment in advance - includes miscellaneous
debtors for rechargable works, international services, dowr-
payments on contracts, and deposits. GPT is expected to nor-
malize this accoLnt in FY 75, thereafter future balances should
only reflect the annual increase in operations.
Liabilities
(ix) Capital - Since the accumulated surplus is not known, the balance
shown as of end-FY 74 is equal to the difference between total net
assets and current liabilities. In FY 75 the capital balance
includes the proposed settlement between Government and GPT and



ANNEX 14
Page X of h pages
the estimated deficit between July 1 and October 31, 197h.
(x) Surplus - relates to GPT's accumulated annual surpluses as
from November 1, 1971.
(xi) Long-term debt - includes the various loans assumed to be
raised as part of the financing arrangements for GPT's on-
going works, FYs 76-80 program and a future program to com-
mence in FY 80.
(xii) Government advances - relate to the advances made to the
former P&T; in accordance with the proposed settlement these
will be cancelled and converted to GPT equity in FY 75.
(xiii)  Post Office funds - relate to the amounts owing to various
Government agencies by the former P&T; in accordance with the
proposed settlement these debts will be cancelled and trans-
ferred to-GPT equity in FY 75.
(xiv)  Equipment suppliers - relate to sums due to suppliers in
respect of equipment supplied since January 1, 1969. It is
expected that most of these debts will be settled in FY 75;
thereafter, balances should be normal with annual increases
following the trend of operations and development.
(xv) Sundry creditors - relate to miscellaneous creditors accounts,
including those for international services which should be
normalized in FY 75; future balances should reflect the normal
increase in operations.
(xvi)  Receipts in advance - relate to sums received for large PABX
installations and other subscribers equipment.
(xvii)  Inter-service operations - relate to the net suim due to the
postal service in FY 74. This balance should be cleared in
FY 75. Future balances will be settled before the accounts
are closed.
March 12, 1975



ANNEX 15
GHANA
POSTS  AND TELECO?MUNMATIONS COR TION (GPT)
Perforaxance Indicators
Fiscal Year             197.    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Number of direct
exchange lines
(DELs)                 29,130  30,600  32,400  35,175  39,170  43,600  46,330
Number of telex
connections               191      192     193      267     327     408      L50
Domestic call re-                               /1                        /2
venue per DEL    l        243      243     343-   336       335     390      389
Operating ratio    %         85      106      82       85      85       75      78
Rate of return      ,       6.9      nil     8.6      7.2     7.6    12.1      9.2
/1 Includes a tariff increase of 401o as from July 1, 1975.
75  Includes a tariff increase of 17% as from July 1, 1978.
May 15, 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 6 pages
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT)
PROPOSED TELECONMMNICATIONS TARIFF STUDY:
ECONOMIC ASPECTS OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN GHANA
I.   Background and Objectives of the Study
The general purpose of the proposed study is to assist the
Ghanaian Government in making pricing and investment decisions in the
telecommunications field. The problem is essentially one of assessing
the costs and benefits of alternative investments in order to determine
a rational system of priorities. This requires a method of investment
appraisal which takes into account not only the objective of the Ghana
Posts & Telecommunications Corporation (GPT), which can probably be
characterized as the maximization of the growth of the enterprise subject
to a profit constraint, but also the economic and social consequences that
result from alternative investment programs.
Telecommunications are frequently questioned on two major grounds,
namely:
(a) the nature and distribution of project benefits. There is a
growing awareness that the benefits of many development
projects fail to reach the poorest segments of society.
While, given the distribution of income, telecommunications
projects may be justifiable on cost-benefit grounds, it is
often argued that, when project costs and benefits are weighted
according to whether they accrue to the rich or the poor, the
same projects would fare badly as a result of such an adjustment.
Similarly, while rural development is currently a priority
objective, it is often felt that telecommunications investments
have been biased in favor of the urban populations. At present
little is known about what telephones are used for, or who
benefits from their use, and such information as is available,
is not often considered by telephone authorities.
(b) the project and the program. There is a further problem of
evaluating the costs and benefits of the various individual
components of an overall investment program. Such an evaluation
becomes more important as telephone authorities extend their
networks beyond the often highly profitable inter- and intra-
urban systems, which tend to pass most reasonable tests of
project justification even when allowance is made for income



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 6 pages
distribution. When service is expanded into sparsely
populated regions, in which unit costs of service
are relatively high and incomes (and therefore ability
to pay, a proxy for economic benefits) are relatively
low, project evaluation becomes more complex. It then
becomes even more important to evaluate the nature of
telephone usage, for even financially unprofitable
services may be justified, and therefore worth sub-
sidizing, if external benefits, or social or political
factors, so indicate. When such information is not
available the problem is usually handled simply by
treating all individual elements of an investment
program as a unit for evaluative purposes. Program
evaluation then becomes a comparison of incremental
costs and revenues which accrue to the telephone
authority, with no attempt being made to ascertain
whether the program would be better off if certain
components were expanded or left out altogether.
Similar shortcomings exist in disentangling costs
and benefits of local vs. long-distance, peak vs.
off peak calls, etc.
The object of the proposed study is to improve the information
available to investment decision-makers by providing quantitative and
qualitative information on costs and benefits of different components
of telecommunications projects, thereby remedying the deficiencies des-
cribed under (a) and (b) above. One particular application of such
knowledge would be to help determine the role of telecommunications as
a source of general government revenues.
II.   Description of the Study
The study would have the following three components:
(a) Analysis of cost and tariff structures. The objective
would be to determine the marginal costs of supplying
the various types of service provided by the telephone
authority and to compare marginal costs with the prices
charged for such services.  Analyses would be conducted
of the marginal costs of connecting to and remaining on
the network, and of local and long-distance calls, where
distinction would be made between urban and rural, peak
and off-peak telephone usage. Comparison of the structure
of costs and tariffs would highlight divergences between
price and marginal cost, and the extent of cross-
subsidization between various categories of subscriber.
This would allow a preliminary judgement to be exercised



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 6 pages
about the desirability of cross-subsidization
and the scope for variation in the structure and
level of tariffs. The essential point is that
such decisions are best made with knowledge of
their implications for resource allocation. However,
two other areas need to be investigated to supplement
the foregoing; first, analysis of demand to facilitate
prediction of the impact of changes in the level or
structure of tariffs on usage and, second, a survey
to provide qualitative information on types of users,
purposes for which telephones are used, income aspects
of telephone demand, etc.
(b) Demand analysis. Following a 40% tariff increase in
June 1975, it is expected that there will be a further
increase of about 17% in July 1978. Prior to the second
increase, data should be collected on long distance and
local traffic, broken down according to distance of calls,
categories of user, time of day when the call is made,
and other classifications deemed appropriate. Data on
telephone usage and on national and regional variables
likely to affect usage should be collected for at least
one year prior to the tariff increase and for one year
subsequent to it in order to isolate the effect of price
on the quantity of telecommunications services demanded.
This would be the main approach to demand analysis; the
other would be included within the survey described in
(c) below, and would attempt to impute demand curves
for telecommunications by a traditional benefit-cost
approach, with application mainly to the rural sector.
(c)  Survey of telecommunications usage (with special reference
to rural telecommunications). For a number of reasons,
namely (i) the current interest in the Bank and elsewhere
in rural development, (ii) the fact that while most inter-
and intra-urban projects and programs are clearly viable
in financial and economic terms, rural projects are less
so, and (iii) in the development of a general methodology
it is better to begin with the easiest cases first, an
analysis of provincial and rural telecommunications
projects in Ghana merits priority. A survey of telephone
usage would be designed to provide the qualitative and
quantitative background necessary for rational decision-
making. Such a study should review the experience of
past investments in provincial and rural telecommunications
facilities in Ghana, bringing together data on telephone
usage and regional socio-economic data, and attempting to
explain the major determinants of success or failure of



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 6 pages
past projects. The study would be aimed at defining
the parameters upon which more accurate prediction
of the demand for telecommunications facilities,
particularly in the rural areas, would be based.
The study would go behind the financial data in
analyzing the economic benefits, or consumers'
surplus, associated with the use of telephones.
Qualitative data on the nature of telephone usage,
such as types of business calls, emergency calls,
and so on, would be combined with financial data in
order that a complete picture of the impact of invest-
ments can be constructed. It should be possible to rank
various types of economic activity according to the
value which they derive from telecommunications facil-
ities. If these activities vary regionally, this infor-
mation would be of value in indicating regional investment
priorities for telecommunications.
III. Organization and Timing of the Study
(a) Analysis of cost and tariff structure. Three to six
months will be required, beginning in summer 1975. A
consultant or Bank economist, and possibly a consultant
engineer, will be required, although the latter might
be supplied by GPT.
(b) Demand analysis. The demand study would be conducted
over two years. Major input from the economist would
be required at the beginning and intermittently
throughout the study. Local University faculty and
graduate students could be involved by GPT in this
part of the study.
(c)  Survey of telecommunications usage.  This would require
at least one year in order to take into account seasonal
variations in telephone usage. Involvement of local
university personnel would be particularly helpful.
The study would consist of two phases:
Phase 1 - Analysis of Existing Data. The first
phase, lasting 3 to 5 months, would allow for familiar-
ization with the operations of GPT and with the relevant
geographical, economic and social conditions of Ghana.
Following this, available information on subscribers and
traffic and appropriate socio-economic data from previous
census and surveys, if such are available, would be
compiled. The objective would be to see whether determinants



ANNEX 16
Page5 of 6 pages
of success or failure of past investment projects
can be ascertained, with special attention being
given to those cases in which demand has been
excessively overestimated or underestimated. An
attempt would be made to explain the rate of growth
in the demand for telephones, the rate of growth in
telephone traffic, and other indicators of project
success. In this regard, variations in geographical
location as well as in standard and cost of service
would be analyzed.
Phase 2 - Generation of Data. It will undoubtedly
be necessary to supplement existing data with information
that can only be obtained by direct observation of tele-
phone usage. The use of questionnaires, directed at
telephone users and potential users, including both
those making calls and those receiving them, would be
intended to provide information on the nature of the
benefits of telecommunication services and the cha-
racteristics, economic and social of the beneficiaries.
Where possible, estimates should be made of the monetary
value of the benefits that accrue from telephone usage.
It is possible that the questionnaire approach could be
supplemented by monitoring of calls. However, extreme
care should be taken to ensure that such monitoring is
not carried out without the knowledge of callers.
IV. Analysis and Interpretation of Results
The final phase of the overall study, which should require about
three months, would involve the following:
-  estimating in both qualitative and quantitative
terms the social costs and benefits of past
telecommunications investments.
- estimating the incidence of those costs and
benefits.
- predicting the costs and benefits of alternative
future investment programs.
- using the above information to analyze GPT's past
and proposed pricing and investment policy.
- explaining and predicting the financial implications
for GPT of alternative courses of action.



ANEX. 16
Page 6 of 6 pages
- analyzing the implications of alternative courses
of action for the generation by GPT of tax revenues
for general government purposes.



IBRD 10094R
FRROtJARY 197E
GHANA
POSTS & TELECOMMUNICAT[ONS CORPORATION
LONG DISTANCE NETWORK
UfP       P    E                                    R . V    O    L   T A  -    .  ExIsrSA    NRCION POPOSED
UPPEr   VOLTA  /-'                        NroTERMINAL STATIONS                                                           A=
,/omnge                      ,ITumu~~~-__@_~  (I*OZuzrungu  /REPEATER STATIONS
-  ~~k-----  ~ ~ '      O         ZoeBmego.I                            MICROWAVE CARRERSSM     --
Hoe                                         '\..               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UHF/VHF RADIO SYSTEM ---------------
II   P  §                    r        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                OPE.g  IIN WIRE CARRIES STSTEM .....................
|-- a  Rr . B.TV TRANSMITTING STATIONS   *
I 9  X        R    5   G   /   0   ZV        I qtWl e A                                              TV LINKS
~SHIP TO SHORE SYSTEM   .- .- -
-- --------IRRnT00I0ndre
PV   O   R   7'  H /    ONR                                                 -.        emationoT  boundories
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  40  00   g  lo  10w0  120  140  160
4.   0      40       40      100
| V  O  R Y     \  '\              t-Ro  0                                  Poboel
C     A  S T                                                   Kopp N                  '
,,5-,  \'                                                                                                                I /   f  .DAHOMEY
:           Suny,    RTs '            G   /  O   A/                                             °              T   O    G       O     t
j          ~~~~WenchA                           lAtb.bu                E :s           < 
2  0Do,ecoo Aheecro ~ ~ 'h 
( OD    Ah k   t°   r   ||                           >, i    r    i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~pi oe    i     ;             ii
.i   \ c o,Behem  XMe -poeg       0---                             .1  i
I~~~~~~ ~~~ /JeerO                              --erdal-0Kpnu5t
Ooe                    .     J     /..oRfrdoor,-                                 ?'eCr < > a X
B-k-A                                                                0~~~EAR~Yj~
\ *- _< * * g 9*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k6somho', 1 
-6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ec                                          0   Eelo o(o Akorel                           DoadOec ak
\ gS  F  XDunt-~~~. -'~ .................1_ . , ..... Asoerenkeso  ~    ee o                     "   It /^edo i
>z~~~~ ~~~~    5  H    AG /7   S9DRA        ,
5 A~~~~~~~ARC
TOe~   ~ oeeooorg/oeoe*-oa                   U  R /         C  I        G °    jx    CClA       > 
fieMOOSoAeodeo   o e e o       T                   '       /   /'aib,.
SPoe; R                               *&r'' * OdOo5oORpoot3 o                                                                                   N
%;-baaS ,                 .     F        G.1 
HaAsii.    .-\(  /     
f_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                       A--               "  - ;- "g     



