CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1122 GH
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 10, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1122 GH
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 10, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Decree" means the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation Decree, 1975 (N.R.C.D.31 1) of the Guarantor,
as such Decree shall be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out


﻿4
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall have exclusive responsibility for and control over,
and shall itself undertake, the procurement of the goods and services required for
the Project.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
commercial, engineering and telecommunications practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall establish on or before July 1, 1975, or such later
date as the Bank may agree, and shall thereafter maintain until the completion
of the Project, within its organization a unit charged with the organization,
coordination and supervision of the implementation of the Borrower's
telecommunications investment programs, including the Project, and headed by a
manager appointed after consultation with the Bank on his qualifications and terms
of reference. The manager shall be responsible to the Director-General of the
Borrower.


﻿5
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the detailed engineering,
procurement and construction supervision required for the implementation of the
Project, and the technical assistance in accountancy included in the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.
Section     3.03.    The     Borrower      shall    ensure    that     the
Taniale-Bolgatanga-Yendi-Wa,        Kumasi-Mampong          (Ashanti)       and
Sunyani-Techiman-Wenchi UHF radio systems and the interministerial telephone
exchange, included in its ongoing investment program, will have been placed into
service on or before June 30, 1976, or such later date as the Bank may agree.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall, at the reasonable request of the Bank, enable the
Bank's representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,


﻿6
property and equipment and any relevant records and documents of the Borrower
relating to the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)   at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and telecommunications practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers;
(b)   discuss with the Bank the qualifications of the person or persons being
considered for appointment to the position of Financial Controller of the Borrower;
(c)   before March 31, 1976, or such later date as the Bank may agree,
draw up and discuss with the Bank a program of recruitment and training of its
middle-level telecommunications management staff, and thereafter implement that
program;
(d)   undertake a comprehensive review of its telecommunications staff
structure and requirements, formulate measures to increase the productivity of such
staff, including staff-training programs, and consult with the Bank on such measures
before July 1, 1976, or such later date as the Bank may agree; and
(e)   reduce in accordance with reasonable targets acceptable to the
Guarantor and the Bank and establish before July 1, 1976, or such later date
as the Bank may agree, its telecommunications staffing ratio to a level substantially
below the present level of 100 staff members per 1,000 telephones served by the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all such rights and interests in land and all such other rights,
powers, privileges and franchises as are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its installations,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate business and engineering
practices.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its property or assets required for the efficient conduct of its operations.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. Beginning with its fiscal year 1975/76, the Borrower shall
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices, and separately for its post and telecommunications
services, its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, commencing with its fiscal year 1975/76:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, before July 1, 1976, or such later date
as the Bank may agree, introduce, and thereafter maintain, a system of internal
audit satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest


﻿8
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the
time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower, with the approval of
the Guarantor, may otherwise agree:
(a)   The    Borrower   shall  establish  and   maintain   tariffs  for  its
telecommunications service which shall generate at least the following annual rates
of return on the average current net value of the Borrower's fixed
telecommunications assets in operation:
seven percent (7%) in its fiscal years 1975/76, 1976/77 and 1977/78; and
nine percent (9%) in its fiscal year 1978/79 and subsequent fiscal years.
Such rates of return shall be calculated in accordance with the method outlined
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(b)   Before April 1 in each fiscal year, the Borro-wer shall on the basis
of realistic  forecasts of revenues and     costs review   the  adequacy    of its
telecommunications tariffs to produce in the following fiscal year such agreed
annual return, and furnish to the Bank a copy of such review.
Section 5.06. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that funds generated by its telecommunications service
during any fiscal year will be allocated to its postal service only to the extent
that such funds shall exceed the sum of the Borrower's operating and administrative
expenses (including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any), adequate provision
for depreciation and investments, and interest and other charges on debt,
accountable to its telecommunications service and to the same fiscal year.
Section 5.07. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur on account of either its postal service
or its telecommunications service any debt, other than for money borrowed for
financing the Project, unless its net revenues generated by such service for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-months period ended


﻿9
prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall be not less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on
all debt, including the debt to be incurred, on account of the same service. For
the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term   "debt" shall mean any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term  "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariffs for the service in question in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-months period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating and administrative expenses (including adequate maintenance and
taxes, if any), but before provision covering depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.08. (a) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any short-term debt on account of
its telecommunications service, except if the aggregate principal amount of all its
short-term debt outstanding on account of its telecommunications service, including
the debt to be incurred, shall be less than one-fourth of its cash operating and
administrative expenses accountable to that service and to the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or to a later twelve-months period ended prior to such
incurrence, whichever amount is greater.
(b)   The Borrower shall use the proceeds of any short-term borrowing by
it only to finance its normal telecommunications working capital requirements.


﻿10
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The terms "short-term debt" and "short-term borrowing" shall
mean all indebtedness and borrowing, respectively, maturing by
its terms less than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(ii)        The provisions of sub-sections (b) and (e) of the preceding
Section 5.07 shall apply.
Section 5.09. Until the Project will have been completed and except as the
Guarantor and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not make
expenditures,  or   commitments    for  expenditures,   for  fixed  or   capital
telecommunications assets (including investments in or loans to other entities made
out of telecommunications revenues), except:
(a)   investments in short-term marketable securities solely for the purpose
of temporarily employing its idle funds;
(b)   expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, not exceeding
$600,000 equivalent in any fiscal year;
(c)   other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for
repairs, maintenance or replacement of assets;
(d)   other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for the
implementation of its on-going investment program, described in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement, or for the implementation of the Project; and
(e)   other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, covered by a
financing plan agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof,
namely, that the Decree, or any provision thereof, has been amended, suspended,
abrogated or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of
the Project or the financial condition of the Borrower.


﻿11
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof,
namely, that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   a full settlement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has
been made between the Guarantor and the Borrower settling in full all claims and
counterclaims between the Guarantor and the Borrower on account of services
rendered from July 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975;
(b)   an increase in the Borrower's telecommunications tariffs so that the
aggregate amount of gross revenues which the Borrower is expected to earn on
account of its telecommunications service provided during its fiscal year 1975/76
exceeds by not less than forty per cent (40%) the aggregate amount of such revenues
which the Borrower is expected to have earned during that year under its
telecommunications tariffs in effect on the date of this Agreement, and the entering
into full force and effect of such tariff increase as of a date not later than July 1,
1975, or such later date as the Bank may agree; and
(c)   the Borrower has borrowed an aggregate amount equivalent to at least
seven million cedis ((7,000,000) in currency of the Guarantor, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its ongoing telecommunications
investment program.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the tariffs which the Borrower may charge on account of its
telecommunications service after the tariff increase referred to in paragraph (b)
of the preceding Section 7.01 have been validly established and duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action and constitute valid
and effective tariffs under the laws of the Guarantor; and


﻿12
(b)   that the borrowing referred to in paragraph (c) of the preceding Section
".01 has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action and that the obligations of the respective parties to that
borrowing undertaken in connection with that borrowing are legally binding and
fully enforceable.
Section 7.03. The date September 8, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation
Headquarters
Accra North
Ghana
Cable address:
GENTEL
Accra


﻿13
IN   NITNESS   WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
By /s/ Samuel E. Quarm
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out ol
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Air conditioning                1,140,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                         expenditures
(2)  Civil works for                 1,000,000         40%
buildings
(3)  Automatic exchange             5,050,000          100% of foreign
equipment for local                               expenditures
exchanges and long
distance
(4)  Local and junction             6,850,000          100% of foreign
cables, network                                   expenditures and
materials and sub-                                100% of local ex-
scribers' apparatus                               penditures ex-
and installation                                  factory
materials
(5)  Microwave and VHF              2,230,000          100% of foreign
radio and openwire                                expenditures
carrier systems
with copper wire
(6)  Telex exchange                 1,040,000          100% of foreign
equipment and tele-                               expenditures
printers


﻿15
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7)   Miscellaneous items            1,440,000           100% of foreign
(vehicles, training                                expenditures
equipment, PBX, PABXs,
cable construction
tools, telephone
billing machines, and
test equipment)
(8)   Consultants' ser-                730,000           100% of foreign
vices and accounting                               expenditures
training
(9)   Unallocated                    3,520,000
TOTAL         23,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory and in the currency of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage


﻿16
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (8) on account of
expenditures incurred after May 31, 1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $75,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable opinion
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's 1976-1980 telecommunications
development program and consists of the following:
1.   Installation of automatic switching equipment of 18,300 lines (including
replacement of 9,000 lines of worn out equipment) together with cable and
subscriber distribution networks, required to establish about 16,000
additional telephone connections.
2.    Improvement and expansion of existing long distance facilities by establishing
a new Takoradi-Kumasi link, replacing the Accra-Tema link and adding
multiplex and switching equipment on the existing and new trunk routes.
3.    Expansion of the existing telex exchange capacity by 250 lines in Accra,
with conversion to semi-automatic operation in the international telex service;
and construction in Kumasi of a telex exchange with a capacity of 50 lines,
including associated teleprinters.
4.    Introduction of modern systems of commercial accounting and financial
management and control for the Borrower, and training of the Borrower's
staff in the application of those systems.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1980                                      230,000
June 15, 1981                                          240,000
December 15, 1981                                      245,000
June 15, 1982                                          260,000
December 15, 1982                                      270,000
June 15, 1983                                          280,000
December 15, 1983                                      295,000
June 15, 1984                                          305,000
December 15, 1984                                      320,000
June 15, 1985                                          330,000
December 15, 1985                                      345,000
June 15, 1986                                          360,000
December 15, 1986                                      375,000
June 15, 1987                                          390,000
December 15, 1987                                      410,000
June 15, 1988                                          425,000
December 15, 1988                                      445,000
June 15, 1989                                          465,000
December 15, 1989                                      485,000
June 15, 1990                                          505,000
December 15, 1990                                      525,000
June 15, 1991                                          545,000
December 15, 1991                                      570,000
June 15, 1992                                          595,000
December 15, 1992                                      620,000
June 15, 1993                                          645,000
December 15, 1993                                      675,000
June 15, 1994                                          700,000
December 15, 1994                                      730,000
June 15, 1995                                          765,000
December 15, 1995                                      795,000
June 15, 1996                                          830,000
December 15, 1996                                      865,000
June 15, 1997                                          900,000
December 15, 1997                                      940,000
June 15, 1998                                          980,000
December 15, 1998                                    1,020,000
June 15, 1999                                        1,065,000
December 15, 1999                                    1,110,000
June 15, 2000                                        1,145,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                               1%
before maturity
More than three years but                           2-1/4%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but                                4%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                          5-1/2%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         7-1/4%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years                             8%
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three years                        8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Local switching and transmission equipment needed for the extension of
existing installations may, for reasons of compatibility, be procured without bidding
directly from the suppliers of the equipment to be extended, provided, however,
that (i) the prices offered are in line with prices which must be expected to be
obtained as a result of international competitive bidding for similar equipment,
and (ii) the aggregate price of the equipment so purchased shall not exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price of domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bid documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate
any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿21
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts, other than those referred to in Part A.2 hereof,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿22
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommndation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids or price quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
1.    The annual returns specified in Section 5.05(a) of the Loan Agreement shall
be calculated by using as the denominator the average between the aggregate current
net value of the Borrower's fixed telecommunications assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year for which the calculation is made and
as numerator the operating income of the Borrower for the same fiscal year.
2.    The term "current net value of fixed telecommunications assets in operation"
shall mean at any given date the gross value of such assets, less the amount of
depreciation accumulated to such date, both as valued or revalued from time to
time in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate methods acceptable
to the Bank.
3.    The term  "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(a)   all   operating   revenues    accruing    from    the    Borrower's
telecommunications service; and
(b)   all operating and administrative costs relating to the Borrower's
telecommunications service (including adequate maintenance and taxes,
if any) and provision for depreciation on all depreciable
telecommunications assets, but excluding interest and other charges
on debt relating thereto.
4.    Depreciation shall be computed in accordance with the straight-line method
at rates acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower on the gross value of the fixed
telecommunications assets as shown in the balance sheet of the Borrower.


