Report No. PIC515
Project Name                   Bangladesh-Second Rural Roads and ...
Markets Improvement Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     BDPA9518
Implementing Agency            Government of Bangladesh
Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development & Cooperative
Local Government Engineering Department
(LGED)
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact: Chief Engineer, LGED
Tel: 880-2-814804 & 326902
Fax: 880-2-813144
Date This PID Prepared         May 3, 1995
Projected Board Date           December 19, 1996
Project Objectives
1.   The project objectives will be:   (i) removing physical bottlenecks
in rural transport and marketing in selected priority regions, through
improvement of roads, river transport jetties, market structures;
(ii) assisting in poverty alleviation through reduced transport costs,
better marketing facilities, higher farm productivity, and increased
farm and off-farm employment and income; (iii) promoting role of women
in road works and rural transport activities; (iv) increasing
participation of local communities and NGOs in project selection,
implementation and monitoring and for strengthening mechanisms for
sustainable maintenance of rural infrastructure; and (v) increasing
institutional capacity at the national, regional and local level for
rural infrastructure project planning, implementation, monitoring and
maintenance. The project will build on experience and lessons learned
from the ongoing RRMIMP-l, and will complement and reinforce its
achievements.
Project Description
2.   The main geographical coverage of the project will be:    (a) six
Greater Dhaka districts (densely populated rural areas with high-
yielding horticultural crops and acute infrastructure problems), which
have not been covered in any other similar project; and, to a lesser
extent, (b) eight NW districts which is the focus of the present ongoing
project and where additional priority works remain to be covered. The
total project area is spread over about ,000 sq.km, with a population of
about 21 million.. Government has requested these priority areas to be
included in the project, taking into consideration the needs of these
districts, coordination with other agencies/projects covering other
areas so as to avoid overlapping, and Government's expressed wish to get
IDA's involvement in the high-priority, and highly-visible Greater Dhaka
Districts in view of the success of the IDA's ongoing RRMP-I.



3.   The Project would include: (a) improvement and upgrading of about
400 km of feeder roads Type B (also called +FRBs+, these are basically
sub-regional roads connecting important +growth center+ markets in the
rural areas) in six districts of central Bangladesh (Greater Dhaka
District); (b) improvement and upgrading of about 130 km feeder roads
Type B in eight districts of northwestern Bangladesh where the ongoing
first project is focused; (c) rehabilitation/construction of priority
river jetties to improve landing facilities for country boats in the
project area (covering the 14 districts); (d) planning and improvement
of rural market infrastructures (i.e., roads, walkways, drainage,
potable water supply, sales platforms and sheds) in about 110 growth
center markets in the project area; (e) construction of about
15,000 meters of drainage structures (culverts and small bridges on
existing rural roads linking FRBs in the project area or elsewhere, with
special emphasis on local participation, use of labor-intensive
technology, and employment of poor landless workers and destitute women;
(f) improving road maintenance systems in the project area, for
replication nationally ; (g) pilot programs to improve the role of
rickshaw-vans and country boats with participation of appropriate NGOs;
and (h) assistance to management for project implementation and national
rural infrastructure maintenance and management. The assistance to
management would include: (i) consultancy services for design and
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of annual programs for
improvement and maintenance of rural infrastructure at the national
level in LGED, and in the project area; (ii) construction equipment and
vehicles; (iii) incremental administrative expenditures for project
execution; (iv) training for LGED, Thana staff and contractors; and (v)
technical assistance for improving rural transport, supporting local
contractors and construction industry and long-term impact studies.
Implementation
4.   The LGED will implement this project.   Suitable technical
assistance, including essential incremental project staff to supervise
the project, will be included in the project to assist LGED.
Cost and Financing
5. The total cost of the Project is estimated at about US$155
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of about %. The
Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) has tentatively agreed to
cofinance about US$15 million equivalent, mainly for technical
assistance. Govt. contribution (including local Govt. agencies)
would be about US$30 million equivalent (at much higher rate than
under the first project). IDA share (tentative) is expected at
US$110m.
Environmental Aspects
6.   The Project would involve no new construction and have no
significant physical risks or adverse ecological effects. It will have
major positive impacts from reducing water-logging through the
provision of drainage structures on rural roads; by planting trees
alongside the project roads; and through the provision of adequate
water supplies, sanitation and drainage facilities in the markets.
- 2-



The environmental category for the project is B.
Processing Schedule
7.   Project Pre-appraisal will take place during May-June 1995, and
appraisal is expected around December 1995, with IDA Board
presentation tentatively scheduled for July 1996.
Contact Point     Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No: 202-458-5454
Fax No: 202-522-1500
Note:   This document provides information on an evolving project.
Certain components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-3-



