                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 25229-BD

                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                     (IDA-29270; IDA-29271; TF-20956)

                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 105.94 MILLION (US$ 153 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                FOR THE

SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                             January 10, 2003

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective June 2002)

                                    Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
                                              Tk 1 = US$ 0.017
                                             US$ 1 = Tk 57.42

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                          July 1   June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank                          PAP        Project Affected Person
Bank    The World Bank                                  PC         Planning Commission, GoB
BC      Bituminous Carpet                               PCD        Project Concept Document
BIDS    Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies     PIO        Project Implementation Office of the LGED
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy of the Bank         pkm        Passenger-Kilometer
CHF     Swiss Franc                                     Project    Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency                  Maintenance Project
CTU     Central Training Unit of the LGED               RDP        Rural Development Project
DCA     Development Credit Agreement                    RHD        Roads & Highways Department, Bangladesh
DSMC    Design, Supervision and Monitoring Consultant   RIMC       Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell of the LGED
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                         RISS       Rural Infrastructure Strategy Study
FRB     Feeder Road Type B                              RMP        Road Maintenance Program, supported by CIDA
FY      Financial Year                                  RR1        Rural Road Type 1
GCM     Growth Center Market                            RR2        Rural Road Type 2
GoB     Government of Bangladesh                        RR3        Rural Road Type 3
HRD     Human Resources Development                     RRMIMP     Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and
ICR     Implementation Completion Report                           Maintenance Project (Credit 1940)
IDA     International Development Association           RSDMS      Road and Structure Database Management System
km      Kilometer(s)                                    RTIP       Rural Transport Improvement Project
LAAP    Land Acquisition Action Plan                    RUC        Road Users' Committee
LCS     Labour Contracting Society                      SAR        Staff Appraisal Report of the Bank
LGED    Local Government Engineering Department,        SDR        Special Drawing Rights
        Bangladesh                                      SDC        Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
m       Meter(s)                                        SE         Superintending Engineer
MANCAPS Management Capacity Strengthening Project,      SEA        Sectoral Environmental Assessment
        funded by the ADB                               SEME       Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation
MMC     Market Managament Committee                     SRR        Structure on Rural Road
MMT     Mobile Maintenance Team                         TF         Trust Fund
MoLGRDC Ministry of Local Government, Rural             Tk         Bangladesh Taka
        Development and Cooperatives, GoB               tkm        Tonne-Kilometer
MTR     Mid Term Review                                 ToR        Terms of Reference
NGO     Non-Government Organiszation                    UP         Union Parishad (Council)
NMT     Non-motorized Transport                         US$        United States Dollar
OD      Operational Directive of the Bank               VOC        Vehicle Operating Cost
pa      Per annum



                                  Vice President:     Meiko Nishimizu
                               Country Director:      Frederick T. Temple
                                 Sector Director:     Vincent Gouarne
                                Sector Manager:       Guang Z. Chen
                       ICR Task Team Leader:          Sujit Das

                                       BANGLADESH
         Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44
Annex 8. Socioeconomic Impact of Rural Roads                                     45

Project ID: P009518                                                      Project Name: Second Rural Roads & Markets
                                                                         Improvement
Team Leader: K. M. Maqsoodul Mannan                                      TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: January 10, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Second Rural Roads & Markets Improvement                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-29270;
                                                                                                       IDA-29271; TF-20956
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                             Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                       Office
        Sector/subsector: Roads & highways (89%); Agricultural marketing
                            and trade (9%); Sub-national government
                            administration (2%)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/30/1993                                        Effective: 02/06/1997
   Appraisal:    11/25/1995                                            MTR: 02/10/2000
    Approval:    12/19/1996                                         Closing: 03/31/2002               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Bangladesh (GoB)/Local Government Engineering Department
                                           (LGED)
                      Other Partners:      Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC)

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu                                     Joseph Wood
Country Manager:           Frederick Thomas Temple                             Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Manager:            Guang Z. Chen                                       Marie Robinson
Team Leader at ICR:        K. M. Maqsoodul Mannan                              Thampil Pankaj
ICR Primary Author:        Eddy Bynens; K. M. Maqsoodul
                           Mannan; Sujit Das

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The Credit was first extended to June 30, 2002. It was subsequently extended to March 31, 2003, only to
fund the consulting services for preparation of a follow-on project, the Rural Transport Improvement
Project (RTIP). All other components of the Credit were closed on June 30, 2002.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The overall project development objective of the Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement
and Maintenance Project (Project) was to help increase rural employment and incomes and reduce rural
poverty by establishing an improved, sustainable rural transport and trading infrastructure. The specific
project objectives were to:

    (a) help remove physical bottlenecks, improve quality, and reduce costs in rural transport and
    marketing;
    (b) create employment and income-generating opportunities among the rural poor, and particularly for
    disadvantaged women;
    (c) promote participation of local communities and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) in project
    activities; and
    (d) increase institutional capacity for efficient rural infrastructure management, including maintenance.

3.1.2    Continuing on the successful implementation of the first Rural Roads and Markets Improvement
and Maintenance Project (RRMIMP, credit 1940), the development objectives of this Project were clear
and relevant to the GoB's development priorities and the World Bank (Bank)'s Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), both of which sought to remove rural infrastructure impediments to enhance agricultural
productivity and increase rural incomes, and thereby reduce poverty. The 1995 CAS (and subsequent 2001
CAS) emphasized improving and maintaining physical infrastructure, as well as improving related services,
which are critical for Bangladesh's international competitiveness of exports and the growth of agriculture
and rural incomes. The CAS encouraged greater participation by local communities, increasing resource
mobilization, adopting national standards, and strengthening local contractors. It also stressed
labor-intensive growth, as part of special measures for poverty alleviation. The Project was designed in
accordance with these CAS objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         After the devastating floods in 1998, a supplemental credit was approved in June 1999, with an
additional objective to (e) facilitate rehabilitation of rural roads, markets, bridges and small jetties which
had been damaged by the floods. Addition of this objective was consistent with the original objectives of the
Project and with the CAS. The 1998 flood had caused major dislocations in people's lives, and the revival
of the economy in part depended on the rehabilitation of the rural infrastructure network.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The original components of the Project were:

    (i)    improvement and upgrading of about 574 kilometers (km) of feeder roads type B (FRBs) in the
           project area (14 districts in the Northwest and Greater Dhaka areas), with small bridges, culverts
           and tree planting alongside the roads. It also included bridges and culverts on other FRBs not
           selected for full improvement, and road safety improvements;
    (ii)   establishment and implementation of a planned routine and periodic maintenance system for the
           LGED road network in the project area, covering all FRBs, important rural roads type 1 (RR1s),
           and structures on rural roads, for replication nationally in the following years;
    (iii) construction of about 6,000 culverts and small bridges (about 31,600 meters (m) of drainage
           structures) on existing rural roads (mainly RR1 & rural road type 2, RR2), together with



                                                        - 2 -

           ancillary earthworks, in order to fill existing gaps on about 10,500 km of rural roads and make
           them passable year-round, and also correct drainage problems created by existing rural roads;
           this component was to particularly emphasize local participation, use of labor-intensive
           technologies, and employment of landless poor and disadvantaged women;
    (iv)   improvement of rural markets (i.e., raised and covered sales platforms, walkways, drainage,
           potable water supply, sanitation) in about 136 growth center markets (GCMs) in the project
           area, and improvement of about 14 Union Parishad (UP) center markets in the project area;
    (v)    rehabilitation/construction of 41 priority river jetties, or river `ghats', in the project area, to
           improve landing/unloading facilities for country boats;
    (vi)   pilot program to improve safety and efficiency of non-motorized transport (NMT), particularly
           rickshaw vans and passenger rickshaws, which are extensively used in rural areas, with
           participation of appropriate NGOs;
    (vii) supply of equipment for road construction and maintenance, of vehicles for supervision of works,
           and of office and training equipment;
    (viii) institutional and human resources development for increasing and strengthening managerial and
           technical capacity of LGED, local government agencies, and the local construction industry, and
           support for a follow-on rural infrastructure project preparation; and
    (ix)   implementation support including technical assistance for the design, supervision, monitoring and
           evaluation of annual work programs, including support for financial and technical audits.

3.3.2    The project components were relevant and adequately designed to meet the development objectives
of the Project. They were prepared taking into account the design and implementation lessons learned from
the first RRMIMP and SDC-financed rural development projects (RDPs), as well as the recommendations
of the joint Bank-GoB Rural Infrastructure Strategy Study (RISS) completed in 1995. The Project
incorporated additional features, such as improving and integrating river transport with road transport,
improving NMT, community and beneficiary participation in design and implementation, raising local
resources, emphasis on drainage structures, emphasis on maintenance, and adoption of national standards
for rural road construction and maintenance. In addition, the Project helped expand the coverage and scope
of structures on rural roads (SRR) nation-wide. The Project placed a strong emphasis on institutional
strengthening to particularly establish a sustainable maintenance system in LGED and strengthen the
capacity of the staff to carry out adequate maintenance of the road network.

3.4 Revised Components:

         Through the supplemental credit, a new component was added: (x) Flood Rehabilitation Works to
rehabilitate about 1600 km of feeder roads, 5600 m of bridges and culverts, 70 markets and 3 ghats,
damaged by the 1998 floods. In addition, a sub-component was added under component (ix):
Implementation Support to provide technical assistance for design, supervision, monitoring of rehabilitation
works of roads, bridges / culverts, markets and ghats damaged by 1998 floods in the project area. Addition
of the component was appropriate.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The quality at entry of the Project is rated as satisfactory for the following reasons. (i) The project
objectives had clarity and consistency with the development priorities of the GoB and the CAS. (ii) The
Project introduced a monitoring and evaluation system to monitor not only the output of the Project, but
also its socioeconomic effects through a Socio Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEME) study and a
short-term and longer-term socioeconomic impact study. (iii) The project risks were adequately assessed
and addressed in the project design. (iv) The Project's readiness for implementation was high. Prior to the
approval of the Project by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors, supervision consultant was appointed,


                                                       - 3 -

some road works contracts were ready for award, procurement of construction equipment initiated, and
preparation for land verification/acquisition started. (v) Finally, detailed economic and institutional
capacity assessment was carried out during preparation.

3.5.2    Although a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared as part of project preparation,
it did not recommend how the environmental management measures would be implemented. The Project did
not formulate the required institutional mechanism and the processes for identifying and implementing the
required environmental management measures.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         The overall objective of the Project to spur rural employment and incomes has been achieved, and
its overall outcome is thus rated as satisfactory. A socioeconomic impact study carried out under the
Project reveals that the improvement of roads had a considerable effect on rural growth and poverty
reduction efforts. The impact study, carried out through a reputed domestic research institute, the
Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS), summarized in Annex 8 of this Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), shows that labor force increased by nearly 13.3% in the project area versus only
9.1% in the control area. Similarly, the project areas showed a 3.1% increase on economic participation
rate of the labor force, versus only 2.1% in control areas. More importantly, the bulk of the increase in
employment came from increased female participation in the labor force: there was 50% increase in female
employment in the project areas, but a decline in the control areas. The impact of roads on the distribution
of food consumption was also found to be favorable with 1.5% annual growth in project villages compared
to 0.1% in control villages. Similarly, per capita annual consumption growth in the study villages averaged
1.5% during the inter-survey period with growth in consumption expenditure being twice as high in the
project roads area compared to other areas (2% versus 1%). The BIDS study also showed that poverty
reduction was faster in project areas: the proportion of people below the poverty line decreased by 2% in
project areas versus increase by 4% in control areas. The outcome/achievement of the specific objectives is
presented below.

4.1.1    Help remove physical bottlenecks, improve quality, and reduce costs in rural transport and
marketing: Achievement of this objective is highly satisfactory. Most of the physical targets of road
infrastructure provision have been exceeded, especially the number of small bridges and culverts, and SRR
on rural roads. The bituminous carpet (BC) has greatly improved the quality of the roads, which, together
with the SRR improvements, has resulted in the high frequency of both motorized and non-motorized
transportation. The SEME study, carried out through the Design, Supervision and Monitoring consultant
(DSMC), shows that there is a decrease in transport costs (by 41% for passengers and by 32.9% for cargo)
after the roads and structures improvements. The BIDS study indicates that the reduction in transport costs
appear to have stimulated agricultural growth and the improvement of roads has raised the employment and
income opportunities of transport operators in these areas.

4.1.2    Create employment and income-generating opportunities among the rural poor, and
particularly for disadvantaged women: Achievement of this objective is highly satisfactory. In the
project area, the construction and maintenance of roads, structures and markets have created both
long-term and short-term employment and income generating opportunities among the rural poor in general
and the destitute women in particular. A total of 78,000 person-years of employment have been created by
the civil construction and maintenance, out of which 25% were female employment. About 5,700
maintenance crew members for both on-pavement and off-pavement maintenance are engaged round the



                                                      - 4 -

year, of which 4,200 are destitute women. Moreover, as a result of the project's initiative, 13,000 destitute
women are also currently employed by the LGED, outside the project area, throughout the year, for
off-pavement maintenance. In addition, due to the introduction of mobile maintenance by the Project and
subsequent replication of the same in all non-project districts, about 6,600 maintenance laborers are now
working for on-pavement maintenance throughout the year. In the GCMs, about 500 women have been
provided with shops in the women's corners. Moreover, the BIDS study shows that land-poor workers
diversified their employment opportunities in non-agricultural activities, such as transport, trade and
services.

4.1.3    Promote participation of local communities and NGOs in project activities: Achievement of
this objective is satisfactory. Prior to this Project, local communities were not involved in the process of
planning and implementation, while the implementing agency, LGED, being an engineering organization,
did not have expertise in participatory process. The Project has promoted local participation in the design
and implementation of rural infrastructure projects. The SRRs, comprising 42% of the actual cost of the
original project, were selected using participatory process. The local bodies had put 10-20% of the
structure costs up-front to signal their financial stake and ownership. The women's corners in the markets
were set up in consultation with the women traders. Another benefit from this Project is the capacity
development of the LGED to facilitate beneficiary participation in planning and implementation. However,
participation of the stakeholders in operation and management of the markets and ghats was inadequate.

4.1.4    Increase institutional capacity for efficient rural infrastructure management, including
maintenance: Achievement of this objective is satisfactory. LGED's permanent staff and project-funded
staff managed the Project efficiently. The Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell (RIMC) in LGED has
established a planned routine and periodic maintenance system for the feeder and rural roads network in the
project area and in the whole country. Training programs for all LGED staff based on a needs assessment
have helped in improving the institutional capacity of LGED.

4.1.5    Facilitate rehabilitation of rural roads, markets, bridges and small jetties which have been
damaged by the devastating floods of 1998: Achievement of this objective is highly satisfactory. The
restoration of feeder roads, markets, bridges, jetties, damaged by the 1998 flood, were completed on
schedule.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Improvement of FRBs. Achievement of this component is rated highly satisfactory. The Project
improved 606 km of FRBs (versus the initial target of 574 km) with substantially improved quality
standards for BC. Tree planting alongside the roads was carried out on 327 km of roads (instead of 574
km), because tree planting was already carried out along some part of the selected roads. 2,600 m of
bridges and culverts on project FRBs (versus 1,915 m, the Staff Appraisal Report, SAR, target) and 1,848
m of non-project FRB bridges and culvers (versus 1,750 m in the SAR) have been completed by June 2002.
Road safety improvements have been included in the design of the feeder roads and structures, although
more could be done in future projects to improve road safety through education of the road users.

4.2.2    Maintenance of Roads. Achievement of this component is rated satisfactory. Revised periodic
maintenance target of 1,386 km of FRBs (appraisal length 747 km) and 403 m of structures (appraisal
length 13,000 m) were successfully completed during the project period. In order to sustain and
institutionalize the maintenance activities, RIMC has been established and it has implemented a planned
routine and periodic maintenance system for the LGED road network in the project area. This system has
subsequently been implemented in the whole country. The planning phase involves the thana engineers



                                                        - 5 -

updating the data in the computerized Road and Structure Database Management System (RSDMS) and
consultations with the local communities. For the routine on-pavement maintenance, the Project has
developed Mobile Maintenance Teams (MMTs) manned by Labor Contracting Societies (LCSs) run by
poor workers including women. This system was found to be successful in the project area, and then
replicated all over the country. LGED, through the LCSs, have engaged destitute women for off-pavement
maintenance. This has also been replicated country-wide.

4.2.2.1 The Project required that the LGED appoint qualified Maintenance Engineer in every district and
thana (sub-district) by March 31, 1997. A Maintenance Engineer has been provided to every thana of the
country, and the Assistant Engineer has been given the responsibility for maintenance at the district level.
The position of Maintenance Engineer at the district level has been proposed in the new organogram of the
LGED, awaiting approval by the GoB.

4.2.2.2 In terms of maintenance funding, the Project required the GoB to provide an annual budget
allocation of at least US$ 21 million equivalent for Financial Year (FY) 1997-98 for rural roads
maintenance, and, thereafter, increase the budget allocation annually by US$ 2.5 million equivalent,
reaching US$ 31 million by FY 2001-02. However, actual allocations were only about US$ 22.3 million
equivalent in FY 2001-02, about 28% less than the agreed amount. In addition, the Project required that, in
the event of external funding for the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)-supported
food-aid Road Maintenance Program (RMP) was reduced from the 1996-97 funding level, the GoB was to
provide additional budget or obtain funds from other sources in an amount at least equivalent to the FY
1996-97 external funding. US$ 11 million funding for RMP in 1996-97 was reduced to US$ 3 million in
2001-02, but GOB did not make up the shortfall in RMP. The combined effect of the shortfall in intended
GoB revenue budget contribution and reduced funding for RMP, substantially reduced the available
maintenance budget. The shortfall in total maintenance funding in FY 2001-02 was about 22%; a total of
about US$ 33.6 million was available as compared to the requirement estimated at about US$ 42.9 million.
The provision for FY 2002-03 is however better due to increased allocation by the GoB (US$ 23.4 million)
and substantial increased funding from food-aid programs (US$ 8.5 million). The total available fund is
about US$ 37.4 million (including funding through RDPs), as compared to the requirement of about US$
42.9 million, thus projecting a shortfall of about 13% in FY 2002-03.

4.2.3    Construction of Structures on Rural Roads (SRRs). Achievement of this component is rated
highly satisfactory. The initial targets for construction of about 6,000 culverts and small bridges (about
31,600 m) were exceeded to about 46,500 m, and were carried out within the project timeframe. The
drainage structures were built on existing rural roads (mainly RR1 & RR2) nationwide, together with
ancillary earthworks, which filled existing gaps on 10,943 km of rural roads and made those passable
year-round. These also corrected drainage problems created by the existing rural roads. This involved
community participation in the selection of the structures and financial contribution by the local
governments. Interest from local communities was very high, and an efficient implementation by the LGED
allowed this component to be ahead of schedule. In view of the growing demand of the rural communities,
local bodies and beneficiaries, and the benefits derived from the implementation of this component, the
physical targets were increased.

4.2.4    Improvement of Rural Markets. Achievement of this component is rated satisfactory. The
Project improved 137 GCMs (versus SAR target of 136) and 15 UP center markets (versus SAR target of
14). There were some initial delays (because of high community participation), but the Project was able to
catch up during the later years and eventually finished the component within time and quality standards.
The quality of the design and of the works was improved continuously (for example, systematic inclusion
of latrines for men and women, inclusion of women's corners with shops reserved for women, testing of


                                                     - 6 -

wells for arsenic, effective supervision of the local contractors, etc).

4.2.4.1 While the construction phase was very successful, the operation and management of the markets
still need improvement. The Project trained and assisted the Market Management Committees (MMCs) that
supervise the markets and leaseholders in charge of toll collection, cleaning and guarding. However, the
expected 40% increase in the lease value of the markets after improvement has not been achieved. Only
7.5% increase on average has been achieved. In most cases, the low increase or even decrease was due to
collusion among the potential leaseholders that depress the bid price for the rights to collect tolls from the
users. When this problem was detected, the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives (MoLGRDC) improved the market leasing procedures, and this had some impact. Further
efforts are being made to improve the leasing and market management procedures. Satisfying the project
covenant, the GoB maintained its reduced 25% share of the lease revenues earned from the markets, thus
allowing more financial resources for the UPs.

4.2.5    Rehabilitation / Construction of River Jetties (Ghats). Achievement of this component is rated
satisfactory. Following consultations with the community and considering hydrological factors, the number
of `ghats' was reduced to 35 from a target of 41 in the SAR. The revised target has been achieved. It is
however difficult to estimate the socioeconomic impact of this component, even though the benefits of
improving river transport facilities are considered high.

4.2.6    NMT Pilot Program. Achievement of this component is rated unsatisfactory. This component
was supposed to improve safety and efficiency of NMT, particularly rickshaw vans and passenger
rickshaws, with the participation of appropriate NGOs. The NGO in-charge of the first phase was
successful in designing and producing an improved passenger rickshaw with the participation of the users.
85 improved rickshaws were produced. The improved rickshaws were judged comfortable by the users and
pullers. However, popularization / marketing of the improved rickshaws through two NGOs during the
second phase was not successful. Both NGOs are being brought to the court by the LGED for
non-execution of the contracts. The reasons for failure of this component are: (i) the implementation of the
component was not well defined in the project design and the SAR; (ii) the Terms of Reference (ToR) for
the NGOs did not clarify the situation; (iii) the selection procedures of the NGOs yielded unfortunate
results (commercially minded NGOs got selected rather than NGOs interested and involved in the NMT
sector); (iv) insufficient attention by the LGED officials for this small but complex component; and (v)
supervision by the Bank (funded 14% of the component) and the SDC (funded 86%) was not adequate.
However, a very large number of passenger rickshaws having close resemblance to the new design
developed under the Project, have been found plying in the roads of New Delhi. It is reported that the
passengers prefer to ride the new design rickshaws compared to the old design ones, because of increased
comfort and safety.

4.2.7    Supply of Equipment. Achievement of this component is rated satisfactory. The procurement
included: (i) road construction and maintenance equipment for leasing to the contractors; (ii) supervision
vehicles for LGED and consultant's staff; (iii) equipment for five LGED district laboratories; and (iv)
training equipment. Availability of lease equipment was a major factor in encouraging very small
contractors in participating in the Project, specially in construction of SRRs. The Project required the GoB
to increase the road construction equipment hire charges to cover the maintenance and replacement costs
and to provide LGED with sufficient funds to maintain and replace equipment (equivalent to the hire
charges collected by the GoB). The hire charges have been increased by the LGED and the Roads and
Highways Department (RHD) in a coordinated way, but not enough to cover the maintenance and
replacement costs. Funding by the GoB to the LGED for maintenance and replacement of equipment is also
inadequate.


                                                       - 7 -

4.2.8    Institutional and Human Resources Development. Achievement of this component is rated
satisfactory. This component comprised several sub-components, including capacity building, policy
support, promotion of private sector, and preparation of follow-on project.

4.2.8.1 Training: The Project Implementation Office (PIO) of the LGED, in coordination with the Central
Training Unit (CTU) of the LGED, provided inputs and resources for conducting various types of training
for the LGED staff, contractors and local authorities within the project area. During the project period, a
total of 53 training courses, workshops and seminars were organized. A total of 9,036 participants received
training during this period, including 17 LGED engineers who received overseas training. Recently, with
the initiative of the PIO, CTU carried out a pilot study on effectiveness of the training program. The results
of the study show that the training program has contributed to ensuring the quality of different project
components as well as to build up the LGED's capacity and update the skills of its staff. The most difficult
task for the LGED was to find out committed officers to take the responsibility of training. A systematic
training monitoring system is yet to be introduced within the LGED.

4.2.8.2 Staffing: LGED provided additional staff (funded under the Project) to allow for an efficient
implementation of the Project. The Project required the GoB to turn seven of the incremental high level
staff positions into regular revenue positions by FY 2000-01. Accordingly, two positions (Additional Chief
Engineer and Superintending Engineer (SE) Design) were turned into revenue positions in 1998, and other
five positions (Transport Economist, two Assistant Engineers Design, Monitoring & Evaluation Expert,
and Sociologist) have been included as permanent positions in the revised organogram awaiting approval of
the GoB. The Project also required the GoB to implement the recommendations of the 1995 study carried
out under the Management Capacity Strengthening Project (MANCAPS), which recommended reduction in
control span of the LGED Chief Engineer by creating about six regional offices by March 31, 1997. Ten
regional offices, each headed by a SE, have been created by the LGED, under project budgets. The
proposal for converting these to permanent regional offices has been vetted by the MoLGRDC, and is
awaiting approval from the Ministry of Establishment.

4.2.8.3 Studies: The project design included studies on (i) Long-term Socio-economic Impacts of the Rural
Infrastructure Investment in the project area, (ii) Small Scale Contracting Industry, (iii) Pavement
Behavior, (iv) Road Construction Contractor Unit Costs, (v) Regional Prioritization for FRBs, rural roads
and markets, and (vi) Local Resources Mobilization with special emphasis on UPs. Study at (i) was to be
carried out in three phases: benchmark survey, short-term impacts, and longer-term impacts. First two
phases have been carried out, through the BIDS. The findings have been summarized in Annex 8. The
survey for the third phase is planned to be undertaken from May 2003. As planned, Study on Long-term
Socio-economic Impacts of first RRMIMP has also been completed, through the BIDS. The study at (iii)
on pavement behaviors was not undertaken. Additionally, SDC carried out (i) Monitoring of Effectiveness
of Training, (ii) Study on Market Management under the Project, and (iii) Study on Road Maintenance
Management under the Project. All the above studies have been useful in assessing the socio-economic
impacts and in formulating various important recommendations for implementation.

4.2.8.4 The Project required the GoB to establish by March 31, 1997, under MoLGRDC, a Working
Committee to promote private sector participation in infrastructure sector. This committee has been
established in 2001, and had one meeting till date. It is too early to evaluate its impact. Under this
component, LGED has appointed a consultant for preparation of a follow-on RTIP. The RTIP is under
preparation currently.

4.2.9    Implementation Support. Achievement of this component is rated satisfactory. A major


                                                     - 8 -

consultancy contract was awarded for providing implementation support including technical assistance for
design, supervision and monitoring of works under the Project. This component also included support for
financial and technical audits. The findings of the audits were implemented.

4.2.10 Flood Damage Rehabilitation. Achievement of this additional component is rated satisfactory.
The GoB did not wait for the Bank's supplemental credit, and carried out substantial rehabilitation works
with other funds. Therefore, the initial targets under the credit (1600 km of roads, 5600 m of structures, 70
markets, 3 ghats) were found to be overestimated, and substantial savings were made. The flood in 2000
caused further damages to the roads and structures in the project areas. It was agreed between the GoB and
the Bank to utilize the savings for rehabilitation of roads and structures damaged by the 2000 flood.
Finally, the targets were revised to 915 km of feeder roads and 2,872 m of structures, covering the damages
both of 1998 flood and of 2000 flood. The revised targets were achieved.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1   For selected 13 roads, detailed surveys - traffic volume, traffic mix, passenger fare and freight
charges - were carried out. The combined Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for these roads is 56.51% as
compared to 40.08% at appraisal. Similarly, the ERR for SRRs varied from 20.48% to 56.55% and
compares with the typical ERR of 30.2% at appraisal. A detailed write up on economic costs and benefits
is presented in Annex 3.

4.3.2   Study for the 20 markets improved under the Project shows that the average value of annual
turnover increased by 26.5%, attendance increased by 33.33%, toll revenue increased by 28.6%, lease
value increased by 7.5%, and the price of perishable items declined by 14.2%, between 1997-98 (before
improvement) and 2000-01 (after improvement). Overall ERR for 5 markets selected for economic
evaluation is 35% compared to 20.2% estimated at appraisal. Detailed data collected on 5 ghats improved
during the project period showed a marked increase in the productivity of cargo handling of 300% and
improvement in safety, measured as losses suffered during transfer of cargo to land from boat (output
loss/tonne throughput) reduced by 99.2%.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

        Institutional impact of this Project is substantial. Some achievements under the institutional
development component of the Project are described under section 4.2.8 hereinbefore. The Project has made
notable impacts in terms of increased capacity within the LGED to plan, manage and implement rural
infrastructure, and to maintain the road network. The Project contributed to the improvement of the LGED
organization structure by helping LGED implement the main recommendations of the MANCAPS.
Improvements include: (i) creation of high level positions to decrease the span of control; (ii) development
of design capacity; and (iii) inclusion of non-engineering fields such as economics, sociology and
monitoring and evaluation in LGED staffing capacity. The Project also helped LGED to improve its
capacity within the RIMC to plan and implement road maintenance country-wide. The GoB increased the
maintenance spending for feeder and rural roads (although not up to the target set in the Project). The
Project introduced 'mobile maintenance' successfully, and this is currently being expanded country-wide.
During the project period, RIMC prepared 'Guidelines for Maintenance of Rural Roads and Culverts' for
country-wide use, and it also started preparing Annual Maintenance Reports for the whole rural
infrastructure in the country. Compared to the earlier project first RRMIMP, inclusion of the Dhaka region



                                                      - 9 -

in the Project led to development of the contracting industry, availability of more construction equipment,
and more trained staff, in the region. The Project helped in developing skills in LGED in participatory
process, currently being used country-wide. Under the Project, the thana storekeepers were converted to
community organizers through training, and this has been replicated nation-wide. The Project prepared
standard technical specifications for the road and bridge works, and helped in adoption of the same
country-wide. Also, standard bidding documents have been prepared based on the experience of the Project,
and these documents are expected to be introduced nation-wide shortly.

4.6 Environmental Management:

4.6.1    The Project had several environmentally beneficial aspects, and the overall performance was good.
The improved roads had reduced erosion of the embankments in most of the places. The structures
constructed on the roads, overall, reduced possible flood damage at places, obliterated the potential damage
to channel-beds by building causeways and temporary earthen structures, and had good health and hygiene
impacts. The GCMs, generally, improved the muddy floor conditions, introduced better community
sanitation; and the jetties reduced the damage to the flood embankments due to anchoring of boats. Potable
water was provided in the markets; the tube-wells were systematically tested for arsenic contamination. In 7
of 100 cases, arsenic contamination was found, and alternative sources of potable water were arranged in
those markets. The significant environmental achievement through the Project had been 327 km plantation
along the roads. The trees survived well, and there were replacement plantations, where necessary.

4.6.2    An SEA was prepared as part of the project preparation, which in itself was an improvement over
the previous project. The SEA did not predict any adverse impact on physical or ecological environment.
Positive environmental interventions were predicted. The Project proposed to ensure drainage, slope
stability and erosion protection measures. The SEA, however, did not recommend how the environmental
management measures would be implemented.

4.6.3    The institutional framework for implementing the environment management actions in the Project
was inadequate; the participatory planning and design was weak in managing environmental issues; and
there was absence of requisite supervision and monitoring. This resulted in cases of site-specific negative
impacts and mixed experience in implementing a few other intended mitigation/management measures. The
roads continue to have deficiencies in terms of cross-drainage. The embankments and the shoulders have
already been eroded wherever close to significant water bodies, and the required erosion protection
measures were not implemented at some places (although turfing on non-critical stretches has survived
well). The markets were to be designed as free-draining areas, but due to inadequate planning and
maintenance of drainage system, some of the markets still have local waterlogging. No provision of
wastewater treatment was made in any market or ghat, and the wastes flow directly into nearby water
bodies. In some markets, the disposal of solid waste (including slaughterhouse wastes) and wastewater has
created hazards in the surrounding areas; the community toilets are ill maintained, and in a few cases, the
effluent is directly flowing into the river. Nevertheless, there have been significant improvement in the
environmental surrounding of the markets compared to the condition prior to the Project. Overall, the
Project could have fared better had there been better preparation and supervision.

4.7 Land Acquisition and Resettlement:

4.7.1    This was the first LGED project to use the Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement. The Project implemented a Land Acquisition Action Plan (LAAP), which was prepared
according to the OD 4.30. The total amount of land acquired was nearly 161 hectares, which affected
15,195 landowners. On average, the loss per landowner was 0.01 ha, which was a small proportion of their
landholdings. There was no displacement from homesteads. Assistance were provided to a very small



                                                      - 10 -

number of sparsely located small shops (mostly movable units and run by households living by the roads)
to relocate close to their homes and known clientele.

4.7.2    To legalize the acquisitions under the present land administration system, lands were acquired by
using the existing land acquisition law of the country. However, the eligibility criteria used for
compensation and the policies thereof were formulated according to the requirements of OD 4.30. The legal
acquisition process, which is extremely time-consuming and cumbersome, often caused delays in payment
of the compensation and continuity in the execution of the civil works. The acquisition process was made
much more complicated by several unforeseen issues associated with small-scale strip acquisition and
compensation process for a large number of works dispersed over a large number of districts or land
administration/acquisition units.

4.7.3    This is the first project in Bangladesh which used no NGO services for implementation of the
resettlement activities. The LGED used a number of sociologists and community organizers who worked
along with the LGED engineers at the district and community levels. By July 31, 2002, compensation /
entitlements were cleared for more than 93% of the project affected persons (PAPs). The key reason for
pending payments to the remaining PAPs, as the LGED informed the Bank, is that the compensation
amounts are too small to cover the time and costs to be spent to collect those as well as the costs of
updating the legal documents and clearing the arrear taxes on the acquired land. The fund for compensation
to these PAPs will remain with the Deputy Commissioners at the district level, who acquire the lands under
the law.

4.7.4    Although LGED's overall performance with implementation improved considerably over time,
information management remained consistently inadequate with regard to detailing the losses suffered by
the PAPs. In addition, lack of full knowledge about the actual site conditions, ownership of the existing
roads and their physical conditions, and about the ownership of the abutting land, resulted in wastage of
time, as acquisition proposals were to be revised in the advanced stage of the acquisition process.

4.8 Procurement:

4.8.1    Staff with considerable past experience, gained under several donor assisted projects, were engaged
to handle procurement of works and goods, with assistance provided by the DSMC for preparation of
bidding documents and bid evaluation. Total number of contracts were 8,496 for works and 89 for goods.
LGED's handling of the vast number of contracts, with the assistance provided by the DSMC, is
commendable. Apart from administrative deviances for some contracts, the performance of the LGED in
execution of procurement is satisfactory. Procurement for SRRs was handled at the district / thana level.
Most of the district / thana engineers had no procurement training and were not familiar with the
procurement for Bank-financed works. In addition, the situation was further complicated by the political or
other non-economic influences exerted by the local UPs / miscreants in not allowing interested bidders to
submit bids. This was addressed by arranging submission of bids at two locations, with the concurrence of
the Bank. However, such arrangement needs to be reviewed before applying for any other Bank-financed
project. In view of very large number of contracts, deviance in procurement process occurred in some
cases.

4.8.2    An independent post review of 75 works and goods contracts in 6 districts, was conducted through
a local Chartered Accountants firm. The main findings of the review were: (i) approved bidding documents
appeared to have been used but some deficiencies were identified in respect of some contract packages;
common deficiencies were allowance of short period for sale of bidding documents, award of contracts
beyond original bid validity, non-submission of performance security as required by the bid document; (ii)



                                                     - 11 -

non-availability of important documents in some packages/contracts; common missing documents were
dates and minutes of pre-bid conference, and copies of Statement of Expenses and withdrawal applications;
(iii) estimated cost was found fair and accurate as compared to quoted price; (iv) two contracts appeared to
be collusive and not transparent; (v) payments were approved by authorized persons; and (vi) record
system was not found uniform for similar projects. However, the comment about collusive bidding was not
conclusive as it had appeared from the Bank's review of the borrower's response and associated documents.

4.9 Financial Management:

          During the project implementation, financial management system was satisfactory except for the
slow pace of settlement of financial audit observations. The Bank received all the audit reports timely
during the project period. LGED responded timely on material audit observations that required clarification
from the Bank's perspective. The Bank received in June 2002, a time bound action plan to resolve
outstanding audit observations. A tripartite meeting involving Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate,
MoLGRDC and LGED, was held, in line with the action plan, to resolve audit observations relating to
government policy and procedure, for FY 1995-96 and 1996-97. A series of tripartite meetings are planned
as per the action plan, for the resolution of the remaining observations pertaining to FY 1997-98, 1998-99
and 1999-2000.

4.10 Other Sectoral and Institutional Issues:

4.10.1 Road Classification: The Project required the GoB to finalize re-classification of the roads in
consultation with the Bank. A study was completed on the subject, and LGED and the RHD have
submitted their respective proposals to the Planning Commission (PC). The Bank has also communicated
its recommendations on several occasions. The PC has formed a sub-committee to look into the matter, and
make final recommendations. However, the final decision has not been made yet in this regard.

4.10.2 UP's Financial Resources Mobilization: The Project required the GoB to implement a plan of
action by December 31, 1998, following a study. The study was completed, and the recommendations are
awaiting endorsement by the MoLGRDC prior to implementation. The GoB did not decrease the 50%
allocation to the UPs of revenues earned from the land transfer tax, satisfying the project covenant.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

          The Project suffered from natural disasters such as the 1998 and 2000 floods. The implementation
of the project works was interrupted due to submersion, inaccessibility to the sites and the damages to the
works under implementation. The subsequent flood damage rehabilitation works increased the workload
under the Project. However, efficient management by LGED helped prevent delays in completing the
Project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

          GOB's compliance with some project covenants (such as maintenance funding, road
re-classification, staffing with revenue budget, etc.) were achieved or partially achieved, often with much
delays than the agreed dates in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The arrangements for
management of markets and ghats are not fully satisfactory. There were inordinate delays in land
acquisition, implemented through the district authorities. There was also some delays in awarding the
contract to the project preparation consultant for the follow-on project RTIP, leading to the extension of the



                                                      - 12 -

credit closing date. The delay was because of slow decision making by the caretaker government prior to
the general elections in 2001. However, the above factors did not have any significant impact on the project
outcomes.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Overall, there were almost no factors under the control of the LGED that affected in a negative
way the achievement of the project outcomes. LGED usually took quick action to correct any factor that
occurred even at levels normally beyond its control. LGED also handled the procurement more efficiently
as compared to first RRMIMP. However, the training program of the Project was affected because the
LGED could not provide motivated staff to manage the training program for the Project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    The original Credit approved in 1996 was for Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 91.2 million (US$
133.00 million equivalent at appraisal). However, because of depreciation of SDR against US$, the US$
equivalent available under the original Credit reduced to about US$121.32 million at project closing. The
Supplemental Credit for rehabilitation of infrastructure damaged by the 1998 floods was for SDR 14.74
million (US$ 20.00 million equivalent originally, reduced similarly to about US$ 19.43 million). SDC's
total financing commitment (including the supplemental) was for Swiss Franc 19.45 million (US$ 15.12
million equivalent). Again, the available US$ amount from SDC reduced to about US$ 12.68 million
equivalent because of exchange rate fluctuations. As of December 24, 2002, the net disbursement from the
IDA was US$ 139.83 million out of available IDA credit of US$ 140.75 million. The disbursement from
the SDC has been US$ 12.43 million, out of available about US$ 12.68 million. The fund flow from the
GoB was adequate, and had no adverse impact on project implementation.

5.4.2    The latest estimate of the cost of the original Project is US$ 171.66 million, which is about 89% of
the appraisal estimate US$ 192.36 million. This is because: (i) actual cost of various components (except
the SRR component) was below the appraisal estimates, and (ii) lower inflation of US$ compared to what
was assumed at appraisal, thus requiring less price contingencies. Even though the scope of SRR
component was increased from 31,600 m to 46,500 m, additional expenditures were easily met from the
savings accrued from other components; and the Project succeeded in completing all its components within
the total cost estimate and the reduced US$ amount under the Credit. However, in local currency (Taka)
terms, the actual cost of the original Project is about Tk 9,031 million, which is about 108% of the
appraisal estimate Tk 8,343 million including price contingencies. The increase in cost in Taka is mainly
due to increase in the scope of SRR component. The cost of supplemental project however remained about
the same as compared to the estimates made at approval. Component-wise scope of works and cost
estimates both in US$ and in Taka, both at appraisal as well as actual, are shown in the table below. It
may be noted that the actual cost in Taka for various components is closer to the appraisal estimates, as
compared to the actual costs in US$ which are much lower than the appraisal estimates. This variation is
due to very low inflation of US$ during the project period and high depreciation of Taka compared to US$.




                                                      - 13 -

                                         Project Cost by Component
S. No.              Component                       Appraisal Estimate                Actual Cost
                                              Quantity       US$     Tk.      Quantity      US$     Tk.
                                                            million million                million million
   1.  Improvement and Upgrading of          574 km         70.10   2984.8  606 km roads    54.14  2794.7
       FRBs                                  roads                          4448 m of
                                             3665 m of                      structures
                                             structures                     327 km tree
                                             574 km tree                    planting
                                             planting
   2.  Maintenance of Roads                  747 km         13.10    548.1  1386 km         8.75   468.4
                                             roads                          roads
                                             13000 m of                     403 m of
                                             structures                     structures
   3.  Construction of Drainage Structures 31600 m          64.14   2805.5  46500 m         71.87  3845.0
       on Rural Roads (SRR)
   4.  Improvement of Rural Markets          150 nos.       12.90    544.5  152 nos.        10.25  548.8
   5.  Rehabilitation / Construction of      41 nos          2.40    101.9  35 nos.         1.93   103.5
       River Jetties
   6.  Pilot Program to Improve                              1.05    48.9                   0.30    15.9
       Non-Motorized Transport (NMT)
   7.  Supply of Equipment                                   8.55    370.1                  6.01   307.8
   8.  Institutional and Human Resources                     3.92    179.8                  3.51   147.6
       Development
   9.  Implementation Support                               16.19    759.7                  14.90  799.2
  10. Flood Damage Rehabilitation Works 1600 km             25.00    NA*    915 km roads    24.15  1292.0
                                             roads                          2872 m of
                                             5600 m of                      structures
                                             structures
                                             70 markets
                                             3 jetties
                                             (ghats)
  11. Implementation Support for Flood                       0.60    NA*                    0.60    29.3
       Damage Rehabilitation Works
       Total Cost                                           217.95                         196.41 10352.2
*Data not available

5.4.3   The actual cost in Taka for 'Improvement and Upgrading of FRBs' is about 94% of the appraisal
estimate, in spite of substantial increased road length (106%) and number of structures (121%) and much
higher price escalation (although tree planting was 57%). This is because the earthworks estimated at
appraisal were not required under the Project, but carried out under 'food for work' program. The actual
cost in US$ is about 77% of the appraisal estimate, because of lower cost due to no earthworks as well as
very low inflation of the US$. The actual cost for 'Maintenance of Roads' in Taka is about 85% and in US$
is about 67% of the respective appraisal estimate, in spite of 86% increase in road length. During
implementation, only patch repairs and thin seal coat were provided for maintenance (with the Bank
supervision team's concurrence), whereas the appraisal estimates were based on thicker pavement layer. In
addition, much less number of structures had to be actually repaired compared to high number assumed at
appraisal.

5.4.4   In case of 'Construction of Drainage SRR', the length increased by 47%, whereas the cost
increased by 37% in Taka and by 12% in US$. The average cost per unit length reduced substantially,


                                                      - 14 -

because simple pipe culverts and small box culverts were mostly taken up for which the foundation costs
were low as compared to higher costs assumed at appraisal. The actual cost in Taka for 152 'Markets' was
practically the same as the appraisal estimate for 150 markets. This was because some markets were built
smaller than what originally envisaged either because of less need or less land availability, thus reducing
the cost.

5.4.5   For the 'Supply of Equipment' component, the actual cost in Taka is 83% and in US$ is 70% of the
respective appraisal estimate. The reduced cost was due to (i) reduction in number of high-value equipment
procured, (ii) dropping some less important equipment, and (iii) lower rates quoted by the Chinese supplier.
In case of 'Implementation Support' component, which mainly comprises the DSMC's services, the actual
cost in US$ is less due to very low inflation of US$ compared to what assumed at appraisal. In case of
additional component 'Flood Damage Rehabilitation Works', the cost in US$ has been practically same as
at approval, in spite of much reduced length and number of works, because the extent and severity of
damages were much more than the estimate.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1   The Project's sustainability is considered likely, because of the quality of the works implemented,
the improved road maintenance funding, increased institutional capacity, and the community participation
resulting in stronger stakeholder ownership. The Project has enhanced the capacity of LGED to plan,
finance and implement roads, structures, markets, ghats rehabilitation and maintenance. The improvement
of the road maintenance capacity in LGED ensures that the benefits will continue to accrue to the
beneficiaries. The RIMC has made considerable progress in establishing the framework for road
maintenance by setting up a road inventory database, introducing national maintenance guidelines, and
establishing a training program. The ongoing use and promotion of labor-intensive technology for
maintenance with appropriate hand-tools would make infrastructure maintenance affordable and would
enhance sustainability. Moreover, the GoB continues to show a strong commitment in planning and
implementation of rural infrastructure maintenance program, and LGED has deployed the necessary staff
to oversee maintenance activities at the district and thana levels. However, although the GOB has increased
maintenance funding, it has not been able to allocate the full fund required for appropriate maintenance of
the rural roads. This aspect will require continued attention of the GoB.

6.1.2   Each MMC is expected to have adequate funds for operation and maintenance of respective
market, out of the money to be earned by leasing out the market for tolling from the sellers. The training of
the MMC members would also help in further sustainability. The operation and performance of the MMCs
should be monitored, and further improvements should be made in the market management system, in order
to make it a more efficient and transparent system.

6.1.3   Sustainability of the institutional impacts of the Project has been strengthened by demonstrated
success of improved contracting, consulting and maintenance management procedures. The analyses and
findings of the socio-economic impact studies show the positive impacts of rural transport infrastructure
development on various outcomes. The formulation of a follow-on project is an additional factor ensuring
sustainability of the project outcomes. It should take care of a few areas needing improvement, such as,
sustainable funding for rural roads maintenance, improving institutional capacity at the local government
level including increasing their financial resources, improving management of markets and ghats, and road
safety.




                                                     - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    The assets created and/or improved under the Project would continue to remain under the overall
management of the LGED. Routine, periodic and emergency maintenance of roads and bridges/culverts will
continue following the LGED's maintenance guidelines. Maintenance will constitute both on-pavement and
off-pavement maintenance. The on-pavement routine maintenance will be carried out by the MMTs based
at district level, and the off-pavement maintenance for roads will be carried out through destitute women
labours forming LCS. A computerized RSDMS has been established at district level as well as at the
RIMC at LGED headquarter. The thana engineers update the data periodically. The annual periodic
maintenance program will be developed by applying established system based on RSDMS data, including
consultation with the public representatives, local people, and road users committee. Periodic maintenance
of roads is usually carried out through contractors, at an interval of 3 to 5 years.

6.2.2    Operation and maintenance of the markets will be carried out following the market management
guidelines issued by the MoLGRDC. Two committees, Union Hat-Bazar Management Committee (headed
by the UP Chairman) and the Upazila Hat-Bazar Management Committee (headed by the Upazila/Thana
Nirbahi Officer), are currently involved in operation and maintenance of the markets. The guidelines have
been revised recently, which incorporates several changes including formation of MMC for each market.
All the markets are leased out annually. The lessee raises toll from the sellers at specified rates. 25% of the
lease money earned is earmarked for maintenance and improvement of respective market. The GoB is
considering the ghats constructed under the Project, as integral part of the adjoining markets. Therefore,
management, operation and maintenance of the ghats will be part of the market management system and
will be looked after by the respective MMC.

6.2.3    LGED has an established system for operation and maintenance of construction equipment, which
will be followed for the equipment procured under the Project. Repair and maintenance of the equipment
and vehicles are done through a separate budget allocation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         The Bank's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the Project was satisfactory. The
project preparation was undertaken during the later years of the earlier project first RRMIMP, under close
supervision of the Bank and SDC. The Bank team gave due consideration to the recommendations of the
RISS, worked closely with the LGED team, and made a positive contribution in preparing the Project. It
consulted the PC and the MoLGRDC as required, and brought them into confidence on various issues. The
Bank appraisal resulted in a comprehensive project with nine components taking into account the GoB's
strategies and the CAS. The Bank team gave due attention to the land acquisition issues, gender issues, and
participation process. However, the Bank's performance on preparation for environmental safeguard was
relatively weak. No environmental specialist took part in preparation and project appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The Bank's performance on supervision was satisfactory. The Bank conducted nine supervision
missions, mostly jointly with the co-financier SDC. During the project implementation, three different staff
were responsible for leading the Bank's task team. After the Mid Term Review in February 2000, the third
leader took over, and the formal supervision mission was carried out once only in a year. However, close
monitoring and supervision was provided by the task team leader from the Bank's country office during this



                                                     - 16 -

period. Taking into account the borrower's institutional capabilities and needs, the Bank team assisted the
GoB and LGED in solving implementation problems, decision making, getting better quality of works, and
responding positively and timely to the needs that arose during implementation. It agreed to change (mostly,
increase) in the scope of the activities wherever considered appropriate. The Bank closely monitored
compliance of OD 4.30 for land acquisition and resettlement, through routine monitoring and formal
supervision. All issues related to timeliness of land acquisition and compensation payment were brought to
the borrower's attention. Considering the moderate impact on the PAPs, the Bank accepted unavoidable
delays in compensation payment.

7.2.2    However, no environmental specialist participated in Bank supervision missions. The Aide
Memoires included environment management aspect but did not make any specific recommendation for
improved environmental management. Supervision of the NMT pilot program component was not
satisfactory. The Bank's supervision on socio-economic studies have been also inadequate.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The Borrower's performance in preparation of the Project is rated satisfactory. LGED prepared
the Project with close partnership with the Bank, the SDC and the project preparation consultant. LGED
prepared the Project, drawing lessons from several other RDPs undertaken with various partners and
replicating successful experiences. The preparation of the Project was supervised by a committee
comprising senior officials of the LGED and representatives from the project preparation consultant and
the PC. The LGED team in-charge of implementation of the earlier project first RRMIMP, was in charge
of preparation of this Project, which helped in satisfactory preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The GoB's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The MoLGRDC considered the
Project as one of the priority projects, and generally helped LGED in implementation. Counterpart funds
were made available on time. The GoB also provided necessary funds for the project activities which
started prior to the project approval by the Bank. The GoB generally took action on those brought to its
attention by the Bank supervision missions. However, most of the legal covenants were only partially met
or in advance stage of completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    LGED's performance is rated as highly satisfactory. Management of the Project has been quite
dynamic, which was supported by competent field staff. Implementation problems were identified, assessed,
and appropriate actions were initiated. LGED carried out technical audits on a regular basis, and the
recommendations thereof were implemented. In addition, LGED carried out SEME study and
socio-economic impact studies, to assess the Project's impacts and effectiveness. Compared to the
experience in first RRMIMP, LGED handled the complex issue like land acquisition in a more competent
way. LGED also managed to succeed to a great extent in the new areas like ghat improvement and
community participation. Qualified staff, targeted staff training, and efficient management, enabled the
LGED to gradually improve the technical quality, procurement management, and minimize implementation
delays. Financial management issues were given due consideration during implementation, and the capacity



                                                     - 17 -

in financial management developed under the Project can be further utilized in LGED.

7.6.2    While LGED kept the transfer of staff at headquarter and in the field to a minimum, there were
cases of frequent transfer of Executive Engineers in a couple of districts (out of 14 districts), which
affected smooth implementation in such districts. There was inadequate monitoring with regard to
environmental management. Although LGED's overall performance with implementation of land
acquisition and resettlement improved considerably over time, information management remained
inadequate.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      Road Maintenance Funding and Sustainability: Due to expansion of the road network, the
maintenance needs have grown by 15% yearly and the shortfall is increasing. In order to make sufficient
means available for maintenance, the Bank should explore with the GoB additional means of funding of
maintenance such as establishment of a Road Fund using solutions inspired by those tested in other
countries such as imposing supplementary levy on fuels, motor spares, registration fees of motor vehicles,
etc. The GoB should make an urgent decision to increase the budget allocation by the amount of the
shortfall, and in the following years increase funding according to the needs. The responsibilities of rural
roads (RR2s and rural roads type 3, RR3s) should be vested to the local bodies for proper coordination and
implementation. There also has to be a clear GoB decision on the classification and responsibility for feeder
roads between LGED and RHD.

8.2      Preparation of follow-on Project: Large-scale projects such as this need a long time for
preparation. The fact that the Project is a follow-on project of a successful project, does not reduce the time
required for project preparation. The project preparation (until effectiveness) took more than three years.
The advantage of the long preparation period was that the Project was well prepared and the DSMC was
hired before the project start. This allowed the Project to be on schedule from the beginning. For the
follow-on project, (i) the design consultant should be appointed at least a year or more earlier than the
project start or the project preparation consultant should carry out a part of the designs and procurement
assistance, so that the implementation can start with the project start, allowing time required for land
acquisition and implementation of resettlement action plan for the first year works, (ii) the implementing
agency's earlier project team should preferably continue for preparation and implementation of the
follow-on project, and (iii) land acquisition process should be started much earlier than the project start.

8.3      Improving institutional capacity and financial resources at the local government level: The
role of local governments has become increasingly important in managing rural infrastructure. However,
their institutional capacity is very low and important efforts should be made to improve the capacity of the
local government officials (elected and employed). Training is required for local government staff in
planning, budgeting, funding and executing routine and periodic maintenance of roads and structures.

8.3.1    The increasing responsibilities of the local governments are not matched by the resources available
to them. To ensure sustainability of rural infrastructure maintenance, it is critical to strengthen the financial
status of the local bodies and to make those accountable for maintenance success. Local governments have
not always collected local taxes to avoid unpopularity. Funding agencies for RDPs and the GoB should
insist on good management. Use of the matching fund concept could provide an incentive to local



                                                      - 18 -

governments to improve tax collection.

8.4      Execution of Pilot Program and NMT: Although the first phase comprising improvement of
safety and design of rickshaws was successfully carried out, the wider use of this improved NMT did not
materialize due to lack of effective participation, dissemination of information, political commitment and
ownership. In future, adequate steps should be taken from the outset for (i) involvement of all stakeholders;
(ii) effective information campaign; (iii) building a sense of ownership and commitment of the borrower in
launching the program; and (iv) selection of reputable NGO/organization having proven track record in
satisfactory implementation of this kind of activities.

8.5      Procurement: The total number of contracts undertaken under the Project was overwhelmingly
large. Procurement for SRRs was handled at the district and thana levels, where most of the engineers had
no procurement training and were not familiar with procurement of works under Bank financing.
Involvement of such large number of staff in procurement resulted in deviance in procurement process in
some cases. In future projects, the number of contracts should be substantially reduced by packaging a few
works in nearby areas into a contract. In addition, appropriate familiarization and training on procurement
process for Bank-funded works need to be provided to the staff involved in procurement prior to their
involvement in the procurement process. Provision should be made to receive bids in the LGED district
offices for higher value packages (say, costing more than Tk 5,000,000) in order to avoid local pressure
group / collusive bidding and to encourage adequate competition. Currently, the LGED has to obtain
approvals from the GoB for all decisions relating to the consulting services exceeding Tk 7.5 million, which
delays the process. It is suggested that this limit be upwardly revised to facilitate faster decision making.
Similarly, the GoB may consider to raise the limit for the Chief Engineer's approval for works from the
present Tk 40 million to say all national competitive bidding packages.

8.6      Environmental Management: A programmatic SEA, without implementation arrangements and
detailed guidelines for planning/design and implementation, is not an efficient tool for projects involving
numerous sub-projects. Regular, intensive and effective supervision and monitoring are required to ensure
that the intended environment management measures are integrated into planning/design and construction
management of the sub-projects. If participatory planning/design is expected to integrate environmental
management into the sub-projects, the participatory framework needs to be robust and needs to include all
relevant stakeholders.

8.7      Land Acquisition and Resettlement: Land acquisition procedures are outdated, time consuming
and provides opportunities for corruption. The situation is further worsened by outmoded and obsolete land
recording system. In order to expedite the land acquisition process, the GoB should take immediate steps to
computerize the land recording system, and streamline the land acquisition procedures. In the interim
period, diligent efforts and upfront actions should be taken for the following: (i) land acquisition estimates
and proposals should be prepared after necessary verification at site, surveys of the roads and abutting
lands, and the engineering designs prepared to match with the physical conditions at site; (ii) all actions
related to land acquisition (and payment of compensation) and resettlement activities should be completed
prior to start of corresponding works; and (iii) arrangements should be made for making spot payment of
compensation rather than the affected persons collecting the compensation amount from the district offices.
The land acquisition process under the project should not be used to collect the arrear taxes.

8.8      Arrangement for Construction Equipment, and Building a more sustainable Construction
Industry. Currently, hire charges for the construction equipment rented by the LGED to the contractors are
lower than the maintenance and replacement costs for such equipment, effectively discouraging the
ownership of equipment by the contractors. Although the Project included a covenant requiring the



                                                      - 19 -

equipment hire charges to be increased to cover maintenance and replacement costs of the equipment, it did
not happen. The same should have been implemented prior to the credit negotiation. LGED (and the RHD)
should be encouraged to sell off their equipment to the contractors or private equipment leasing company,
which may lead to emergence of private equipment leasing companies. In addition, for future projects of the
LGED, the civil works contract sizes should be increased gradually, which would allow the contractors to
procure key construction equipment out of the advance payments for the contract (additional advance
payments can be made against procurement of equipment), and no further procurement of equipment by the
LGED should be encouraged. Increasing size of contracts would help in building a more reliable and
resourceful construction industry. To develop and promote small scale contractors' output and efficiency,
emphasis should be given to continued training of such contractors.

8.9      Technical Audit: Contract for the technical audit under the Project was awarded to a local
consulting firm. This had placed the local firm in an awkward position, because the firm worked for LGED
in other similar projects. Future projects should require that the technical audit consultant should not have
commercial relation with the organization whose works they would be auditing.

8.10     River Jetties: The jetties (ghats) constructed under the Project are of standard design and of
permanent structures and can not be shifted during erosion, siltation and flooding. For future projects,
opportunities should be explored for the construction of jetties using steel structures/pontoons which are
cost effective, and can be shifted based on the hydrological behavior of the river, and should be designed
according to the requirements of each site.

8.11     Management of Markets and Ghats: The capacity of the MMCs in supervising the leaseholders
needs further strengthening. An effective MMC with a clear mandate and authority should be introduced in
each market. Participation of users, local communities and local bodies need to be ensured in operation,
management and maintenance of markets and ghats. The tendering procedures for the leases and the
application of the procedures, need to be more transparent in order for the leases to produce the expected
financial returns. The training and monitoring the performance of the MMCs should be continued and
strengthened in order to establish an efficient and transparent management system.

8.12     Training: Although a large number of training courses were organized and a large number of
participants received training, the training staff of the Project were found to be either non-motivated or
inefficient. The CTU of the LGED should manage the training component of any future project. Instead of
the engineers coordinating the training matters, it is necessary that persons having the background and
aptitude for human resources development are made in-charge, and they implement the training programs
with the assistance of the technical experts.

8.13     Socio-economic Studies: Review of the design of the SEME studies carried out through the
DSMC and the socio-economic impact studies carried out through BIDS, reveals that the studies were
designed independently without a common survey framework that could make the studies complementary
rather than competitive. It is necessary to prepare the ToR for the studies in a more coordinated and
complementary way, in order to draw synergies between the two studies and exploit the comparative
advantages of each study. The complementary as well as distinctive features of both SEME and impact
studies should be highlighted and synchronized. There was an apparent lack of coordination in the data
collection and analyses among the two studies, as well as there was inordinate delays in completion of
impact study reports by the BIDS. It is necessary to monitor the conduct of such studies more closely, for
the outputs being timely available and more useful.




                                                       - 20 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments by the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED)

1.0     Introduction

The government of Bangladesh received financial assistance from the World Bank and the Swiss
Development Corporation (SDC) for the implementation of the Second Rural Roads and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance Project (RRMIMP-2) amounting to US$ 212.36 million. The Project was
implemented over a period of 66 months from January 1997 to June 2002. Details of the loan/credit are as
follows.

Date bilateral agreement was signed with IDA                                 : 8 January 1997
Amount of IDA credit                                                         : SDR 105.94 million
Date bilateral agreement was signed with SDC                                 : 19 November 1996
Amount of SDC credit                                                         : CHF 19.45 million
Supplementary agreement with IDA for flood damage repair                     : May 1999
Supplementary agreement with SDC for flood damage repair                     : 3 February 1999

2.0     Objectives of the Project

The overall development objective of the proposed project was to help increase rural employment and
incomes and reduce rural poverty. More specifically, the project objectives were to:

l help remove physical bottlenecks, improve quality and reduce costs in rural transport and marketing;
l create employment and income-generating opportunities among the rural poor and particularly for
disadvantaged women;
l promote participation of local communities and NGOs in project activities; and
l increase institutional capacity for efficient rural infrastructure management, including maintenance.


3.0     Scope of the Project

The main components of the project were:

l Improvement and upgrading of 574 km of feeder roads Type B (FRBs) in the 14 districts of the
     project area to full all-weather bitumen surfaced standard, including the construction of 1915 linear
     meters of drainage structures on these roads; construction of 1950 linear meters of drainage structures
     on other FRBs in the project area; and tree planting along the FRB embankments.

l The planning and implementation of a coordinated system of routine and periodic road maintenance of
     the road network in the project area, comprising FRBs and important Rural Roads Type 1 (RR1) for
     replication nationally in following years.

l Construction of 31,600 linear meters of drainage structures (culverts and small bridges) on existing
     rural roads in the project area and other parts of Bangladesh, together with ancillary earthworks on the
     roads, with special emphasis on local participation in planning, financing, and implementation. The
     structures were selected through a participatory process involving local bodies and local communities,



                                                     - 21 -

      who contributed 10% of the cost, and use was made of labor intensive technologies requiring the
      employment of landless poor and disadvantaged women.

l Planning, improvement and maintenance of the market infrastructure (internal roads and footpaths,
      drainage, sales platforms and sheds, latrines and potable water supply) in 136 Growth Centre Markets
      (GCM) and 14 rural markets in the project area.

l Planning rehabilitation/improvement and maintenance of 41 priority rural "ghats" in the project area
      to improve landing, loading and unloading, and other facilities for operation of country boats.

l Pilot program to improve the role of non-motorized means of transportation in the project area, with
      participation of NGOs.

l Procurement of equipment for construction, maintenance and supervision.


l Institutional and human resource development to strengthen the management and technical capacity of
      LGED, including the provision of training, the conduct of studies and the expansion of LGED
      capability in participatory development of rural infrastructure.

l The construction of a new LGED District office in the Dhaka district and extension of Sirajganj
      District office.

l Technical assistance support for the implementation of project activities including the design,
      supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the annual work programs and support for institutional
      development.

4.0      Floods of 1998 and 2000

The project proceeded well until the devastating floods of 1998, which occurred between 20 July and 6
September of that year. Considerable damage occurred and also delayed progress. The IDA and SDC
agreed to finance the costs of repairing the damage and a supplementary credit of US$20 million was
approved by IDA on 11 May 1999. SDC financed additional DSMC costs of US$0.8 million.

Flood damage repair works commenced in January 1999 and were substantially completed by June 2000.
However, further flooding occurred in 2000 and unspent funds from the 1998 flood were utilized to repair
flood damage.

5.0      Project Implementation Details

Design and Documentation : The consultants prepared the contract documents and designs for the
project. However, these were based on LGED standards and experience gained on other rural development
projects. During implementation the targets set forth earlier in different components had to be adjusted, in
reality increased in many of the cases, based on actual requirement.

FRBs and Structures : Construction work was carried out through contract and because contracts were
small (to allow small local contractors to participate in tenders) this resulted in a considerable number of
contracts. Construction work was largely carried out by labor intensive methods and construction plant
was hired from LGED. Locally available materials, such as, bricks and sand were used in pavement
construction. A total of 606 km of FRBs was improved or constructed and 2600 meters of structures were


                                                     - 22 -

constructed on project and other FRBs.

Structures on Rural Roads : A total of 46,500 meters of structures was constructed requiring 6535
construction contracts. Selection of SRRs was undertaken jointly by LGED and local authorities. This was
a very successful program, which had a major possible impact of the accessibility of many rural areas.

Markets and ghats : The identification, planning and construction of 152 markets (including 15 rural
markets) and 35 ghats were carried out with considerable local participation. Construction work was
carried out by contract. A new concept was the construction of facilities for women in the growth centres.

Equipment : A considerable quantity of equipment was purchased under the project. This equipment
included construction and office equipment as well as transport. The total contract value of the equipment
purchased was US$ 4.31 million.

Maintenance : Maintenance of 1386-meter roads and 403-meter bridges was largely carried out by
contract. However, routine maintenance of roads was carried out using mobile maintenance units and some
equipment for these units was purchased under the contract. Maintenance of markets and ghats is the
responsibility of the Market/Ghat Management Committees.

Quality Control : Laboratories were provided in each of the 14 districts and they carried out the full range
of testing needed to ensure the quality of the works. The LGED staff and TA staff of the consultancy team
jointly worked in the laboratories.

Tree planting : Tree plantation was carried out along 327 km length of the roads and this provided
employment opportunity to a considerable number of destitute women. These women employed under
"Labor Contracting Societies (LCS)" were also responsible for the maintenance of the plants. This was an
excellent program benefiting both destitute women and it favorably contributed towards improvement of the
environment.

Participation : Participation by the local community in the selection, planning, design, implementation and
maintenance of improved infrastructure was an important component of the project. The LGED officials
and Consultants worked closely in the early stages of the project to prepare guidelines for user's
participation and implemented a number of training courses (40 in number) to inform and orient all the
stakeholders in the participation process. However, it appeared that more training will be required for the
management of ghats and markets and more transparency is required in financial matters.

Land Acquisition : Land acquisition problems caused some delay towards physical progress at the early
stages of the project but the matter was improved and there was no significant problem regarding
disruption to the progress of the work after the initial stage. The nature of work of the project did not
require extensive land acquisition and only 182 hectares of land were acquired. LGED and the consultants
staff worked together closely to expedite payments of compensation and sort out related problems/issues.

Environmental & Social Issues : The project did not have a major environmental impact due to the
nature of the works. Roads were improved using the existing alignment and little new land was required.
Trees were planted on road slopes, embankments were planted with grass, and drainage was improved
through construction of bridges/culvert on roads. In the markets and ghats drainage was improved, clean
drinking water was provided and garbage disposal and sanitation facilities were provided. The issue of
arsenic in tubewells for drinking water was addressed by testing and only 7 tubewells were found to have



                                                      - 23 -

an arsenic content in excess of the tolerance limit and appropriate measures were taken.

Non Motorized Transport : This was a pilot program to improve the non-motorised transport in the rural
areas. The design of rickshaws, rickshaw vans, bullock carts, women's bicycle and bicycle trailers were
reviewed and prototype designs developed. Although there was considerable participation by users and
rickshaw pullers in the development of the new type rickshaw, in practice, the new design has not been
generally accepted by rickshaw pullers and perhaps further modification will be required for better
acceptance by the end users. More attention needs to be given to marketing the new rickshaw which is
considered to be a considerable improvement on the existing design.

Training : A total of 131 local training courses were held during the project period and 10062 personnel
received training. Training was imparted on the following issues/topics:

      Non-motorised transport
      Planning
      Road safety
      Participation
      Land acquisition
      Computer operation
      Rural employment
      Market and ghat management and maintenance
      SRR methodology
      Mechanical
      Road maintenance
      Project management
      Contractor training
      Field and laboratory testing
      Global positioning system
      Accounting and computerized accounting

In addition, the project consultants provided some training in participation, maintenance and equipment
management. The volume of training provided under the project was considerable. However, follow-up
training is essential and the LGED training unit will ensure that a comprehensive program of follow up
training is implemented in the longer term.

In addition to the local training, overseas training has been imparted on the following subjects:

l International Workshop on Infrastructure
l Training on Procurement
l International Procurement Seminar
l Financial Management & Disbursement Course
l Rural Road Development and Maintenance Training Course
l Works Procurement Management Training Course
l Management of Training Center
l Management of appropriate technology in the road sector development


The total number of participants was 37 attending 20 no. of courses.




                                                      - 24 -

6.0      Project Results

Socio-economic Monitoring and evaluation (SEM&E) : An SEM&E study was carried out by the
consultants. The results of this study as detailed in the final SEM&E report indicate substantial benefits of
this project. The economic benefits of FRB improvement were considerable. However, in the case of ghats
and markets economic benefits, although positive, need further economic analysis. The following
summarizes the effects of the infrastructure improvements under the project:

l The effect of improvements to transport infrastructure has produced a significant change in modal mix
     of rural transports. Passenger transport charges decreased by an average of over 40% and freight
     charges by 36%.
l Improvement of ghats has brought about significant benefits in productivity & safety.
l Economic viability of road investments has been manifestly justified.
l The effects of improvement of markets are positive. Lease values are picking up.


For long-term Socio-economic impact evaluations another study through BIDS (Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies) was also undertaken. The results of this study as detailed in the final report indicate
substantial benefits of the project.

7.0      Performance of different entities

(a)      Contractors : Contracts for the implementation of the project activities were small to permit small
local contractors to undertake the work. The large number of contracts resulted in a large number of
contractors and the quality of these contractors varied and many contracts required additional time to
complete.

(b)      Consultancy for the Project : A joint venture of consultants consisting of international and local
consultants, known as Design Supervision and Monitoring Consultants (DSMC) were responsible for
providing advice and assistance on project plan, design, implementation, operation & maintenance and
monitoring and evaluation. The joint venture consisted of the following consultants:

         Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Ltd
         Mott MacDonald Ltd
         Development Design Consultants
         Resource Planning and Management Consultants

DSMC worked closely with LGED personnel in the preparation of design, supervision and monitoring of
construction works and certified the satisfactory completion of all the works to the required quality
standard. Favorable comments about the generally good quality of work indicated the satisfactory
performance of DSMC under the project.

(c)      Project Management : An LGED Project Implementation Office (PIO) was formed at the Head
Office in Dhaka to plan and implement the project. The 14 district offices were responsible for
implementation of project work in the respective districts including supervision, measurement and payment.
The consultants played a role in evaluating tenders but PIO was responsible for awarding those.
Supervision was done jointly for implementing all components of the project.




                                                     - 25 -

In general, the performance of PIO was satisfactory and the project was completed within only three
months over the original project period in spite of the delays caused by extensive flooding in 1998 and
2000. However, the very large number of small contracts made it difficult for the PIO to enforce contract
conditions and a fewer number of larger contracts would be easier to manage.

(d)      World Bank and SDC, the financiers : The World bank and SDC monitored the progress of the
project by means of annual evaluations and regular liaison between the project implementation officials and
the Donor officials. During the Annual Review Missions, all aspects of the project were discussed and
amendments to project requirements were made. The local World Bank officials also made site visits to
inspect the progress of the works. The Review Missions were very successful in identifying problems and
proposing for their solutions. The timing of the missions was appropriate and time spent in the field was
sufficient.

Overall performance of the World Bank and SDC was highly satisfactory. They happened to be
spontaneous in providing decisions/comments and all other matters related to the project implementation.

8.0      Operation & Maintenance and sustainability:

In course of implementation of the project activities, operational plan of assets procured and resources
created has been prepared and it is being applied. The activities being undertaken under this plan have
facilitated proper use of the assets/resources and ensured sustainability of those in future. The operational
plan has included, inter-alia, the following issues.

l maintenance of roads  routine maintenance, periodic maintenance and emergency maintenance.
l maintenance of bridges/culverts  routine maintenance, periodic maintenance and emergency
      maintenance.
l operation and maintenance plan of growth centres/markets.
l operation and maintenance plan of ghats.
l operation and maintenance of construction and laboratory equipment.
l operation and maintenance of vehicles.
l operation and maintenance of functional buildings .


9.0      Manuals, Guidelines and Documents prepared:

A number of manuals, guidelines and documents have been prepared under this project and these have been
used. Further use of the documents will contribute to the institutional development of LGED, Local
Government Institutes (LGIs) and other stakeholders. The documents cover the technical and other
professional areas and the list is given below:

l Participation Guidelines for Planning and Implementation of Markets and Ghats.
l Participation Guidelines for Maintenance and Management of Markets and Ghats.
l Participation Guidelines for Planning, Implementation and Maintenance of Structures on Rural Roads
      (SRR).
l Planning and Implementation Guidelines for SRRs and Ancillary Earthworks.


10.0     Lessons learnt, Proposals and Recommendations:

Some lessons learnt through implementation of the project and a few proposals and recommendations based


                                                     - 26 -

on the lessons learnt are indicated below:

Contracts : For a project of this size, there are too many contracts and too many less experienced
contractors. With such a large number of contracts being undertaken at any given time, it is very difficult
to properly enforce contract conditions, particularly when it is apparent that contract periods are too short.
The situation would be improved by larger contracts with more realistic contract periods, and stricter
enforcement of contract conditions. The contract periods should take account of the disruption caused by
the monsoon rains. It is suggested that this would result in the emergence of better quality contractors.
Smaller contractors could still find work as sub-contractors.

Equipment : At present, the contractors are hiring their equipment from LGED and there are no developed
private sector companies which provide construction plant on hire. It is considered that this is an inefficient
method of providing construction equipment and it is recognized that the private sector can provide a better
and more efficient service in the long run. If construction work is carried in larger contracts and LGED
phases out its own equipment plant, this will encourage the emergence of the private plant leasing
companies. Of course other public construction agencies especially Roads & Highways Department should
also opt for the same. Larger contractors may also choose to purchase some key construction equipment.

Bridges : There are often erosion problems near bridge wing walls and it is apparent that the present
wing wall design needs some modification. The design of appropriate and economic wing walls is
important for the long term security of the bridge approach roads. It is suggested that different wing wall
designs should be prepared under the new project to determine the best design for the long term prevention
of embankment erosion. [A committee in LGED formed very recently is working on this.]

Routine road maintenance : This project has provided some equipment and vehicles for routine road
maintenance. However routine maintenance of roads and bridges needs further attention. The approach of
road maintenance assessment within LGED may be changed to HDM-4 gradually. Usually much time is
elapsed in between preparation of the estimate and actual commencement of work, when further
deterioration occurs resulting in revision of the contract too often. This can be avoided by putting a
condition in the tender that the bidder must put the rates envisaging probable additional damage by the time
he would commence the work

Road shoulders : The maintenance of road shoulders is not upto the mark and "edge break" of the
surfaced pavement is the most common form of initial pavement failure. The provision of "hard" shoulders
has been beneficial but additional measures are required at locations where traffic travels frequently on the
shoulders. This happens on sharp corners where vehicles tend to cut the corner by travelling on the
unsurfaced shoulder. It is recommended that various shoulder treatments should be included on the next
project to determine the most appropriate treatment on sharp corners.

Quality Control Testing : The arrangement for carrying out quality control testing of construction is
adequate. However, there is a room for improvement as far as the quality of testing is concerned. It is
suggested that the LGED central laboratory may play a greater role in this regard by carrying out more
regular correlation testing. In practice, this can be achieved by joint collection of samples on site, splitting
the samples and testing separately. Test results can be compared and if there are any differences, the
central laboratory staff may investigate the reasons and correct incorrect testing procedures.

Contractors : There is a need to provide more training to the contractors and improve their capacities to
become more professional and efficient. The award of larger contracts and stricter enforcement of contract



                                                      - 27 -

conditions will also help remove inefficient contractors and allow better contractors to expand their
activities. Contractors that perform badly may be removed from the prequalification list.

Markets : The improvement and construction of growth centre markets has been a success. However,
the management of the completed markets is not so satisfactory as shown by the generally inadequate
maintenance. It is recommended that the Market Management Committees formed on adhoc basis should be
regularized & given with legal status, should receive more training and the procedures should be in place to
increase their responsibilities & capabilities.

Ghats : At present, there are Ghat Management Committees also on adhoc basis, to manage the ghats. It
is recommended that the ghats may be managed as part of the linked market and a ghat Sub Committee
may be formed and it may report to the Market Management Committee.

Non Motorized Transport : It is considered that the new rickshaw developed under the project is an
improvement over the existing rickshaw presently in use all over Bangladesh. It is suggested that more
attention may be given to marketing the new rickshaw to the buyers of the rickshaws and the provision of
credit, where necessary, may be made.

Training: The project has successfully implemented a lot of training. However, there is a need to have
follow up for monitoring effectiveness of training and the LGED training unit is to provide adequate
follow-up training. Some of the Engineers posted to the training centres feel reluctant in discharging their
duties due to lack of HRD knowledge and absence of incentives available in the unit. It is suggested that a
core set up of dedicated engineers having HRD knowledge and committed to their jobs should be
established along with a resourceful unit having sufficient incentives made available.


(b) Cofinanciers:

Comments by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC)

1.0 Introduction

The Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project-2 (RRMIMP-2) is the second
generation of rural infrastructure development project of Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
(SDC) and World Bank (WB) to support the Government of Bangladesh (GOB). Built on the lessons learnt
from the first project, RRMIMP-2 was designed with an overall development objective to help increase
rural employment and income and reduce rural poverty by establishing an improved, sustainable rural
transport and trading infrastructure. The project is a large and innovative project covering 14 districts. It
started in July 1996 and will come to an end in June 2002.

2.0 Outputs of the Project

The project has been very successful in terms of making an outstanding progress in civil works and
financial disbursements. It has also made significant achievements in social development and institution
development aspects. The project intervention has significantly contributed to the removal of physical
bottlenecks in the rural areas, such as development of markets, toilets, bridges, culverts, roads, etc.. It has
generated rural employment and income, reduced costs in rural transport and increased marketing facilities
for agricultural products.

It is expected that the following components will be completed by the end of the project.


                                                     - 28 -

l Improvement of 610 km of Feeder Roads B (FRB)
l Improvement of 137 growth centre markets and 15 union rural markets
l Improvement of 35 ghats
l Construction of 47,500 meters of structures on rural roads
l Periodic maintenance of 1,420 km of FRBs and 410 linear meters of structures
l Rehabilitation of 915 km flood damage roads and 2,872 meters of structures


In view of these achievements, it may be concluded that the overall objective of the project has largely been
achieved.

3.0 Effects of the Project

3.1 Employment Generation : In the project area, the construction and maintenance of roads, structures
and markets have created both long-term and short-term employment and income generating opportunities
among the rural poor in general and the destitute women in particular. A total of 78,000 person-years of
employment have been created by the civil construction and maintenance, out of which 25% are women.
About 5,700 maintenance crew members for both on-pavement and off-pavement maintenance are engaged
round the year, of which 4,200 destitute women are exclusively employed in the off-pavement maintenance
activities and roadside tree plantation.

Moreover, as a result of the project's initiative, 13,000 destitute women are also currently employed by
LGED outside the project area throughout the year for off-pavement maintenance. In addition, due to the
introduction of mobile maintenance by the project and subsequent replication in all non-project districts,
about 6,600 maintenance laborers are now working for on-pavement maintenance throughout the year.

3.2 Socio-Economic Impact: Besides the employment generation by developing the rural transport and
trading infrastructure, the project has also contributed to the growth of overall rural economy. The Socio
Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEM&E) unit of the project has surveyed 20 out of 191 improved
roads, 23 of 137 markets and 8 of 38 ghats of the project. The main findings are as follows.

Feeder Roads B (FRBs):
l Increased in Vehicle Km (annual change from appraisal) - motorized vehicles 22.4% pa and non
     motorized vehicles 2.1% pa
l Increased in Tonne Km (annual change from appraisal) - motorized vehicles 19.4% pa and non
     motorized vehicles 7.0% pa
l Passenger transport charges (in Tk/pkm) decreased (difference between pre and post improvement) 
     Rickshaw 24.6%, Rickshaw van 77.9%, Auto Rickshaw 50.9%, Bus 47.0%
l Freight transport charges (in Tk/tkm) decreased (difference between pre and post improvement) -
     Rickshaw van 32.0%, Animal cart 35.4%, Hand cart -37.6%, Truck 38.0%
l Accesses increased (percentage difference between pre and post improvement) - attendance at
     educational facilities 7.0%, attendance at banks 33.7%, number of shops 67.8%, attendance at health
     facilities 60.6%
l EIRR increased by 16.4% (post investment appraisal)


Growth Centre Markets (GCMs):
l Increased - turnover 26.5%, lease value 7.5%, attendance 33.3%, toll revenue 28.6%

Ghats:
l Reduced - freight charges 20%, passenger charges 24%




                                                      - 29 -

l Increased - number of motorized boats 88.2%, lease value 67.6%


4.0 Results of Project Implementation

4.1 Standard of civil works: Built on RRMIMP-1 experiences, LGED has consistently maintained the
standard of civil works, especially in Rajshahi region (RRMIMP-1 area). In Dhaka region, which a new
inclusion to RRMIMP-2, the project has contributed to building the capacity of contractors as well as
LGED staff. Although the project faced difficulty to introduce the quality control system at the beginning,
the quality achieved in the end has been satisfactory.

4.2 Structures on Rural Roads (SRR): One of the major successes of the project is the implementation of
small drainage structures on rural roads throughout the whole country. The project started with 10%
financial contribution from the community/local bodies, which was eventually increased to 20%. There
were enormous responses from the Union Parishads to participate in this program. The participatory
planning process has been introduced by the project. The users and communities participated in the process
of identifying, planning, financing and implementation of SRR.

4.3 Participation: A remarkable achievement of the project is the promotion of participation of the
users/communities/local bodies in planning, design and implementing the markets, ghats and SRRs and
raising the local contributions. On the other hand, the user participation in operation, management and
maintenance of markets and ghats has not been introduced. As a result, the markets and ghats are poorly
managed and conflicting issues are evident in many markets. The project helped building capacity of LGED
staff, especially those dealing with social issues, through external support of NGOs and consultants.
Necessary steps have been initiated by LGED with a view to institutionalizing and sustaining community
participation. However, the question still remains that how much LGED would be able to succeed in
dealing with the social issues as an engineering organization. The objective of introducing an effective Road
Users Committee (RUC) in each Upazila has not been achieved. The objectives of RUC were optimum and
effective use of roads, advise and suggest measures on improvement and maintenance of roads; traffic
movement and management; awareness building on road safety and rules, etc. which were not achieved.

4.4 Mobilization of Local Resources: The project contributed to change the GOB policy in mobilizing
local resources. The Union Parishad has a very weak financial base. With the initiative of the project, 1%
land transfer money is set-aside for the UPs. In addition, 25% of the developed market lease value is
allocated to the concerned UPs while 15% is given in case of undeveloped markets. While the UPs have got
some funds from the market lease and land transfer, it remains weak in fund management and lacks
accountability and transparency.

4.5 Maintenance: A significant progress has been made in infrastructure maintenance. A well-organized
road maintenance unit (RIMC) has been set up within LGED. RIMC plays a vital role in formulating
policies, strategies and guidelines. An effective off-pavement maintenance system is already in place
throughout the country. In addition, mobile maintenance system has recently been replicated nationally
after successfully piloting in two project districts. With continuous efforts from the project, LGED has
been able to influence GOB to increase maintenance revenue budget every year. However, this is still
inadequate compared to actual needs to cover the entire LGED road network. The shortfall between needs
and budget has been steadily growing over the past years and has now reached to 30% of the required
budget. Moreover, the maintenance program is not planned and implemented in an adequate manner in the
field with the available budget because of low motivation of the field maintenance engineers. The GOB
policy on new construction vs maintenance is somehow controversial. A significant amount of GOB funds
have been provided for new rural road construction that are quite unimportant from traffic point of view,


                                                      - 30 -

while GOB does not allocate sufficient fund for road maintenance.

4.6 Training: The project has implemented training need assessment with the help of the Central Training
Unit (CTU) of LGED and the courses have been designed on the basis of need assessment. Most of the
training courses were implemented by CTU. A study on effectiveness of training shows that the
participants are utilizing their training knowledge in their daily practical work of respective field. The
training program of the project has contributed to a great extent to strengthen the institutional capacity of
LGED in project implementation and management, participatory planning and maintenance management.
However, the Training Unit of the project remained very weak throughout the project period and
contributed very little. Although the study shows positive effects of training, a systematic training
monitoring system is yet to introduce within LGED. Moreover, CTU, which is in the process of functioning
on its own without any external support, is not staffed with qualified LGED members due to lack of
committed staff to work in this non glamorous Unit.

5.0 Project Management

The overall project management of LGED has been satisfactory. The Project Implementation Office (PIO)
has been quite efficient and dynamic which was adequately supported by the competent field staff in
implementing the project. The Design, Supervision and Monitoring Consultants (DSMC) have played an
important role in ensuring the quality of civil works, transferring technical skills and training in the areas
like participation and maintenance. Based on the experience of RRMIMP-1, LGED handled the complex
issue like land acquisition in a more competent way. It managed to succeed to a great extent in the new
areas like ghat improvement and structures on rural roads including participation. LGED has also been
advanced in the area of maintenance and institutional development.

6.0 Lessons Learnt

l Besides FRBs, GOB has made huge investments in new construction on least important rural roads
     including RR1, RR2, RR3. GOB should focus its strategy on maintaining roads that have already
     been constructed rather than constructing any new roads. It should take necessary measures for
     providing adequate maintenance fund to maintain the whole LGED road network. Otherwise, the huge
     investments made on road construction over last 15 years will not be able to contribute, as much as
     expected, to the socio-economic development in the rural area.

l LGED has to put serious efforts in dealing with social development issues. Participatory process
     should be institutionalized in case of planning, implementation and management of markets, ghats and
     SRRs. LGED staff should work more closely with the communities, users, and local bodies to ensure
     their participation in the process.

l The whole market and ghat management is a complex issue, which is not functioning, in its present
     setting. For this, the socio-economic impact in the improved markets is not as good it was expected.
     An effective market management committee with a clear mandate and authority should be introduced
     in each market by GOB. Participation of users (seller and buyer groups) needs to be ensured in
     operation, management and maintenance of markets and ghats to get the maximum benefit of the
     improved infrastructures.

l Local governance issues should be dealt in a more adequate manner. The local govt. bodies e.g. UPs,
     market and ghat management committees should be given adequate authority and needed support and
     resources to manage the local infrastructures.


                                                     - 31 -

l The concept of introducing a road users committee under this project has been proved to be wrong in
     the rural transport setting. Thus, this should not be pursued any further by LGED in its present form.

l The training staffs of the project have been found to be either non-motivated or inefficient. Thus, the
     separate Training Unit for the project has not been found effective. CTU should manage the training
     component of any future project. More training should be organized for contractors, local govt. bodies
     and social development and maintenance staff of LGED.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate

(a) (1) Increase in length of continuously     11000                              10943
passable Rural Roads in project area. Unit:
Additional km of continuously passable RR
present norm: 1.5 km for each gap filled; At
Project Completion: 10500;
(a) (2) Reduced transport charges on FRBs      28                                 32.9
improved under the project, after one year of
completion. Unit: % reduction in transport
charges on improved FRBs on goods for
composite traffic unit (in constant price); At
Project Completion: 25;
(b) (3) Employment created on project          25000                              78000
activities. Unit: Person-years; At Project
Completion: 15000;
(c) (4) Rural markets and river jetties
designed and SRRs selected with beneficiary
participation:
(i) With involvement of Participation          6500                               1750
Specialist. Unit: Number of project schemes;
At Project Completion: 1500;
(ii) Others. Unit: Number of project schemes;                                     4550
At Project Completion: 3000;
(d) (5) Increase in lease value of Improved    40                                 7.5
Growth Centre markets vs pre-development.
Unit: % increase in lease value; At Project
Completion: 40;
(d) (6) Average size (km) of FRB contracts     5                                  3.5
awarded. Unit: km; At Project Completion: 5;
(d) (7) FRB network in project area in good,   60                                 64
paved condition. (As per initial network of
3200 km). Units (1) % of FRB network; (2)
Km/Sq.km.; At Project Completion: 60;
(d) (8) Average elapsed time between invoice 15                                   30
submission and payment to contractor. Unit:
Number of days; At Project Completion: 15;


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
(1) FRB Road Improvement Contracts             606                                606
Completed. Unit: km; At Project Completion:
574;
(2) Road Side Tree Planting Completed.         275                                327
Unit: km of road; At Project Completion: 562;
(3) SRR Contracts Completed. Unit: m; At       47000                              46500
Project Completion: 31600;
(4) GC Market and River Jetty Contracts        Not Available                      172
Completed. Unit: No.; At Project Completion:
177;

1End of project




                                                               - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
               Project Cost By Component                    US$ million   US$ million
Improvement and Upgrading FRB                                 70.10          54.14          77.23
Maintenance of Roads                                          13.10            8.75         66.79
Construction of Drainage Structure on Rural Roads (SRR)       64.14          71.87         112.05
Improvement of Rural Markets                                  12.90          10.25          79.46
Rehabilitation/Construction of River Jetties (Ghats)           2.40            1.93         80.42
Pilot Program to Improve NMT                                   1.05            0.30         28.57
Supply of Equipment                                            8.55            6.01         70.29
Institutional and Human Resource Development                   3.92            3.51         89.54
Implementation Support                                        16.19          14.90          92.03
Flood Damage Rehabilitation Works                             25.00          24.15           96.6
Implementation Support for Flood Damage Rehabilitation         0.60            0.60           100
Works

Total Baseline Cost                                          217.95         196.41


                         Total Project Costs                 217.95         196.41
                   Total Financing Required                  217.95         196.41


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00            172.74         9.94         0.00       182.68
                                   (0.00)           (134.26)      (7.95)        (0.00)    (142.21)
2. Goods                            3.04              5.00         1.00         0.00        9.04
                                   (2.00)            (3.00)       (0.52)        (0.00)     (5.52)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00        16.11         0.00       16.11
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)       (4.77)        (0.00)     (4.77)
4. Land Acquisition                 0.00              0.00         0.00         4.96        4.96
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Project Administration           0.00              0.00         4.17         0.00        4.17
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.58)        (0.00)     (0.58)
6. Training                         0.00              0.00         1.00         0.00        1.00
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            3.04            177.74        32.22         4.96       217.96
                                   (2.00)           (137.26)     (13.82)        (0.00)    (153.08)




                                                  - 34 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                0.00              164.86              0.44             0.00           165.30
                                          (0.00)             (131.89)           (0.09)           (0.00)         (131.98)
   2. Goods                                4.27                1.74              0.00             0.00             6.01
                                          (2.93)              (1.41)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (4.34)
   3. Services                             0.00                0.00             13.87             0.00            13.87
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (4.88)           (0.00)          (4.88)
   4. Land Acquisition                     0.00                0.00              0.00             5.33             5.33
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
   5. Project Administration               0.00                0.00              5.14             0.00             5.14
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.72)           (0.00)          (0.72)
   6. Training                             0.00                0.00              0.76             0.00             0.76
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
       Total                               4.27              166.60             20.21             5.33           196.41
                                          (2.93)             (133.30)           (5.69)           (0.00)         (141.92)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
       project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA        Govt.        CoF.          IDA         Govt.       CoF.       IDA     Govt.    CoF.
Improvement and                52.11       17.99         0.00        41.81        12.33       0.00       80.2    68.5       0.0
Upgrading FRB
Maintenance of Roads            6.55        6.55         0.00         4.29         4.46       0.00       65.5    68.1       0.0
Construction of Drainage       51.32       12.82         0.00        57.50        14.37       0.00      112.0   112.1       0.0
SRR
Improvement of Rural           10.32        2.58         0.00         8.20         2.05       0.00       79.5    79.5       0.0
Markets
Rehabilitation/Constructio      1.92        0.48         0.00         1.54         0.39       0.00       80.2    81.3       0.0
n of River Jetties (Ghats)
Pilot Program to Improve        0.15        0.00         0.91         0.04         0.00       0.26       26.7     0.0      28.6
NMT
Supply of Equipment             5.45        3.10         0.00         3.83         2.18       0.00       70.3    70.3       0.0
Institutional and Human         2.92        0.00         1.00         2.75         0.00       0.76       94.2     0.0      76.0
Resources Development
Implementation Support          2.27        0.83        13.09         2.09         1.03      11.78       92.1   124.1      90.0
Flood Damage                   20.00        5.00         0.00        19.77         4.38       0.00       98.9    87.6       0.0
Rehabilitation Works
Implementation Support          0.08        0.00         0.52         0.10         0.00       0.50      125.0     0.0      96.2
for Flood Damage
Rehabilitation Works
TOTALS                         153.09      49.35        15.52       141.92        41.19      13.30       92.7    83.5      85.7




                                                           - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1.      Economic Evaluation Methodology - SAR

        Cost-benefit analysis was carried out for three component/sub-component - FRB improvements,
construction of SRRs and growth center markets improvement - which accounted for about 75% of the
original project cost.

1.1     FRB road improvements: ERR was estimated based on quantifiable benefits mainly from reduced
transportation costs (reduced passenger fares and freight charges) of different transport modes after the
improvement of the feeder roads and due to change in modal mix. Data on reduced transport costs was
collected from earlier studies carried out to assess the socio-economic benefits of improving feeder roads
`with' and `without' the project, funded by the Bank and other multilateral agencies.

        The traffic was estimated to grow at 8% for the normal traffic throughout the 15 year design life
period of the roads. In addition, benefits from generated and diverted traffic were also included. The traffic
assumptions made in the SAR led to an overall traffic growth of 55% in passenger-km (pkm) and 104% in
tonne-km (tkm) in the 3 year period following completion of a typical road. The traffic growth rates
assumed in the SAR were lower than those observed during the socio-economic survey of the earlier similar
projects. For normal traffic, the total benefits of reduced costs were considered, while for generated and
diverted traffic only half of the benefits were considered for the economic analysis.

        The project economic cost included cost of improvement of road, construction of structures, land
acquisition and tree plantation, routine and periodic maintenance during the 15 year analysis period, and
7% for project design and supervision. Taxes, duties and contingencies were excluded. Local currency
financial costs were converted into economic prices by using a standard conversion factor of 0.9. The
overall ERR for the 69 roads selected, derived as a weighted average, was 30.3% and ranged from 12% to
66%. About one-third of the road sections had an ERR of less than 12% when exclusion of time savings
and other sensitivity tests were considered, but were selected due to poor condition and in consideration for
geographic distribution.

1.2     Growth Center Markets: Economic benefits of market improvement were estimated on the
assumption of reduced spoilage of perishable goods, i.e. the difference in the average and the maximum
prices of a commodity realized by the seller during the day of the trade. It was argued that the prices of the
perishable commodities declined faster during the day in an unimproved market due to poor ground
condition, while this difference reduced after the market was improved and the sellers used paved and
raised platforms and the market had better sanitation facility. It was assumed that this spoilage will decline
by 3% of the turnover. The annual turnover, in term of quantity, was assumed to grow by 5% per annum
and an additional growth of 15 percent generated turnover was assumed in the first year of market
improvement. The financial benefits thus accrued were converted into economic benefits by using a factor
of 0.9.

        The cost of market improvement were averaged for three market sizes: small, medium and large. In
addition to improvement cost, routine maintenance cost on yearly basis and periodic maintenance cost at 5
year interval were included. The improvement costs were spread over a 2 year period. Allowance of 7% for
design and supervision were added to the improvement costs. Financial costs were converted into economic
costs using a factor of 0.9 for local items, which formed 70% of the improvement cost. For imported
items, a factor of 1.0 was used. ERR for the typical market was computed for a 15 year life cycle of the
market with no residual value. The average ERR for all the selected markets was estimated at 20.2% with



                                                      - 36 -

14.4% for small, 19.1% for medium and 24.9% for large markets. The ERR for small markets fell below
the threshold level of 12% under sensitivity analysis.

1.3      Structures on Rural Roads: The cost-benefit analysis for the SRRs was carried out by estimating
the benefit streams of bridging the gap to the road users in terms of savings in Vehicle Operating Cost
(VOC) due to i) charges for the boat to cross the gap, and ii) distance due to longer alternative route or
improved condition for vehicle movement through the gap; and savings in passenger and vehicle time due to
i) elimination of delays in crossing gaps and in diverting to alternative routes to avoid gaps; and ii)
elimination of standing time for the vehicles. The cost of the SRR was estimated for an average length of 3
running meter per kilometer of rural road (average length of 5.7 km). The structures were to be completed
in the first year. The financial costs were converted into economic costs by using a factor of 0.9 for local
costs (75% for the construction) and 1.0 for the imported materials. In addition, routine maintenance costs
and periodic maintenance costs were also included for the 15 year period. 7% of construction costs was
taken as an allowance for design and supervision.

         Traffic were estimated to grow at 5-10% for pedestrian, motor cycle, rickshaw and bicycle in the
first 10 years and 4-8% in the subsequent 5 years of analysis. In case of bullock carts, the traffic was
assumed to contract at 5% in the first 10 years and at 4% in the next 5 years. In addition, the generated
traffic in the first year of opening was estimated to vary between 5% and 25% for different vehicle types
based on the traffic study of roads `with' and `without' gaps in proximity to each other. Other motorized
traffic was not considered for analysis, since most of the roads did not have such traffic. The ERR for the
typical SRR was estimated at 30.2%, which was quite robust to the increase in cost and decrease in traffic.

2.       Economic Evaluation Methodology - ICR

         DSMC carried out socio-economic monitoring and evaluation of various components of the
Project. Relevant data were collected for various project components, 3 times during the life of the Project:
i) before the start of project implementation (base line data), ii) at the time of mid-term appraisal, and, iii)
after the project completion. A set of FRBs, growth center markets, ghats and SRR were selected to
represent various geographic areas, traffic levels and regional economic development. A set of control
FRBs in the vicinity of the selected roads were identified, and similar data were collected to segregate the
impact of improvement and externalities.

2.1      FRB road improvement: A sample of 13 project roads and 2 control roads were selected for data
collection on traffic growth, passenger and freight charges for different modes and changes in travel
pattern. The cost of improvement of each of the road was collected from actual expenditure. Economic
evaluation was carried out using the methodology described in the SAR and the current costs were
converted into 1994 prices.

2.2      Growth Center Markets: Data on turnover, spoilage (value of quantity of goods left unsold or sold
at very low price at the end of the day), lease value of the market, number of transactions, and prices for
different commodities traded at the markets were collected for the baseline year 1997-98 and the 2000-01
by which time 20 markets were improved. Since no data were collected on the maximum and average price
variation during the hat (weekly market) day for different commodities at the improved markets, the
methodology used in SAR could not be used for economic analysis. Also, improved access to markets has
resulted in reduced prices of all commodities, except a few, in real terms. Therefore, the growth in market
turnover in value term is lower than actual volume of trade. The economic analysis for this component was
therefore carried out by recalculating the spoilage percent for the base line volume of trade and then used to
determine the benefit of improved market. Economic evaluation was carried out for 5 selected markets.



                                                      - 37 -

2.3      Structures on Rural Roads: Six, one from each district, typical SRRs were selected for collecting
the data on traffic before and after the Project. The ERR for these SRRs was calculated using the appraisal
methodology with actual cost and traffic. The costs and benefits were converted into 1994 prices.

3.       Findings of Socio Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEME) Study

3.1      Traffic and modal mix: The traffic on the 13 selected roads increased at annual rate of 14.6% in
terms of tkm and 7.5% in terms of pkm between appraisal, 1994, and the final survey, 2000-01, i.e. an
increase by 126% in freight and 54% in passenger. The modal mix also changed in favor of motorized
traffic after improvement of roads. In case of freight traffic, the share of motorized tkm increased from
54.1% to 69.2%, while that of non-motorized declined to 29.1% from 44.0%. The share of motorized
passenger traffic increased from 15.9% to 45.9%, while that of non-motorized and pedestrian traffic
declined to 31.2% and 22.9% from 44.0% and 40.1% respectively.

3.2      Passenger and freight charges: The freight transport charges on an average declined from Tk
27.87 per tkm to Tk 18.71 per tkm at constant prices, i.e. by 32.9%, before and after improvement of
roads. The prices declined for each mode type, rickshaw van by 32%, animal cart by 35.4%, hand cart by
37.6% and truck by 38%. Similarly for passengers, the decline for rickshaw was by 24.6%, auto rickshaw
by 50.9% and bus by 47%, with an average decline by 41%. The average rate declined from Tk 2.12 to Tk
1.25 per pkm, at constant prices.

3.3      Market transactions, attendance, toll charges, lease value, price of commodities and spoilage:
For the 20 markets improved under the Project, the average value of annual turnover increased by 26.5%,
attendance increased by 33.33%, toll revenue increased by 28.6%, lease value increased by 7.5%, price of
perishable items declined by 14.2% and the spoilage in financial value increased by 2.1% between 1997-98
(before improvement) and 2000-01 (after improvement). The increase in spoilage should be compared in
conjunction with increase in annual turnover and when the combined effect is considered the spoilage
decreased by almost 24% over the same period. Also, if the impact of reduced prices is added to the
increase in annual turnover, the annual turnover for these markets increased by over 40% in term of volume
for perishable goods for which the data is available. In the absence of data on overall increase in
consumption of the food items at national level during this period, it would be difficult to assess diversion
of trade from nearby markets to the improved markets.

3.4      Productivity and safety of boat operations at ghats: Data collected for 5 ghats, which were
improved during the project period, showed a marked increase in the productivity of cargo handling of
300% and improvement in safety, measured as losses suffered during transfer of cargo to land from boat
(output loss/tonne throughput) reduced by 99.2%.

3.5      Employment generated and number of vulnerable population employed: In the project area, the
construction and maintenance of roads, structures and markets have created both long-term and short-term
employment and income generating opportunities among the rural poor in general and the destitute women
in particular. A total of 78,000 person-years of employment have been created by the civil construction and
maintenance, out of which 25% are women. About 5,700 maintenance crew members for both on-pavement
and off-pavement maintenance are engaged round the year, of which 4,200 destitute women are exclusively
employed in the off-pavement maintenance activities and roadside tree plantation.

         Summing up, improvement of transport infrastructure has produced a significant change in the
modal mix, reduced cost of transport and provided employment to a large number of vulnerable section of


                                                     - 38 -

the society. While the total turnover and attendance increased substantially in the markets improved under
the Project, its overall economic impact cannot be clearly defined. Improvement of ghats brought
significant benefits in productivity and safety.

4.      Economic Revaluation Results

4.1     FRB Road Improvements: For the selected 13 roads, detailed surveys - traffic volume, traffic
mix, passenger fare and freight charges - were carried out. The combined ERR for these roads is 56.51%
as compared to 40.08% at appraisal. Except for 2 roads, the ERR is significantly higher than at appraisal,
while for the 2 roads, it is marginally lower. The post-investment ERRs are higher because of i) reduced
cost of completing the project by about 5% at constant prices; and, ii) much higher increase in traffic as
well as very high shift to motorized mode than estimated at appraisal. Table 3.1 lists the comparative cost
and ERR for the selected 13 roads.

                 Table 3.1: Appraisal and Post Investment Costs and Economic Returns

         Name of Road                       Investment Cost                       ERR (%)
                                             (million Taka)
                                     Appraisal            ICR           Appraisal            ICR
Singair - Baira                         14.30            16.45            29.20             31.40
Sirajdikhan - Taltala                   20.70            26.51            29.10             42.70
Dighirpar - Tongibari                   47.00            38.52            46.70             53.30
Araihazar - Uchitpur                    45.60            51.76            49.36             46.70
Sreepur - Barmi                         12.90            19.77            39.80             82.20
Balabo - Puradia                        17.50            22.21            51.80             59.40
Barrahat - Rajpara                      33.30            24.34            70.30             80.80
Mohadevpur-Matajee                      35.60            33.50            35.60             79.60
Nachole-Mollickpur                      49.00            29.41            22.91             33.90
Dhunot-Mothurapur                       32.50            33.50            52.40             49.40
Pathanpara - Hopehat                     7.10             5.87            32.71             82.20
RHD - Dekuria                            7.30             8.21            27.10             33.30
Akkelpur - Tilokpur                     44.30            34.64            34.00             59.70
Average                                 28.24            26.51           40.08              56.51
Source: SEME Report, 2002

4.2     Growth Center Markets: Five markets were selected for carrying out detailed economic evaluation
based on actual costs, transactions and spoilage for the perishable commodities. Overall ERR for these 5
markets is 35%, varying from 19% to 52%, which is higher than 20.2% for all selected markets estimated
at appraisal. The comparative ERRs for the 5 markets at the appraisal and after completion are tabulated
in Table 3.2.

                 Table 3.2: Appraisal and Post Completion Economic Results for Markets
Market                           At Appraisal                               After Completion
                       ERR (%)           NPV ('000 Taka)          ERR (%)              NPV ('000 Taka)
Sonatola                   37                 13827                  48                      11616
Mominpur                   25                  8025                  34                      6331
Syedpur                    14                  2055                  19                      6680
Kawraid                    32                 26647                  40                      38388
Source: Analysis provided by LGED



                                                     - 39 -

4.3     Structures on Rural Roads: Six structures were selected from six different districts for detailed
data collection and economic evaluation. The length of these structures varied from 2.5 m to 12 m and the
cost from Tk 174,000 to Tk 850,000 for these six structures. Since, at appraisal, only a typical structure
was considered for economic evaluation, the results for individual structures were not available for
comparison. The results of economic evaluation of these structures, based on the post investment traffic
and actual costs, are summarized below in Table 3.3. The ERR of structures varied from 20.48% to
56.55% and compares with the typical ERR of 30.2% at the time of appraisal.

                    Table 3.3: Post-construction Economic Evaluation of Structures

     District          Upazilla           Name of Road           Span (meter) Cost ('000 taka)   ERR (%)
Gazipur           Gazipur-S        Nawjur-Kashimpur                   4.00          360             47.36
Cox's Bazaar      Ramu             Tuttangarchara-Madrasha           12.00          621             30.99
Sylhet            Sylhet-S         Malarchar-Bimandar                 2.50          174             44.06
Bagerhat          Bagerhat-S       Gotatpara-Taleshar                 4.50          388             21.38
Sirajgunj         Sirajgunj-S      Mohishamura-Simanatabazar          9.00          848             56.55
Jhalokati         Nalcity          Bhabanipurbazar-Nalbunia           9.15          820             20.48
Source: Information provided by LGED




                                                  - 40 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year        Count               Specialty                        Progress         Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               November 1994                       3    TS (1); TE (1); HECONS (1)
               May-June 1995                       5    TS (1); TE (1); HECONS (1);
                                                        CONS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Nov. -Dec. 1995                     9    TS (2); TE (1); HEPRCONS
                                                        (1); HECONS (1); RS (2);
                                                        INSCONS (1); SEIS (1)

 Supervision
               Feb. -Mar. 1997                     5    TS (1); TE (1); HEPRCONS                S               S
                                                        (1); INSCONS (1); RS (1)
               November 1997                       7    TS (1); TE (1); SEIS (1);               S               S
                                                        HEPRCONS (1); RS (1); DO (1);
                                                        INSCONS (1)
               May-June 1998                       5    TS (1); TE (1); RS (1); SEIS (1);       S               S
                                                        DO (1)
               November 1998                       5    TE (2); HEPRCONS (1); RS (1);           S               S
                                                        DO (1)
               March 1999                          1    TE (1)                                  S               S
               September 1999                      5    TE (1); RS (1); SEIS (1); DO (1);       S               S
                                                        FMS (1)
               Jan.-Feb. 2000                      7    TE (1); RS (1); SEIS (2); DO (1);       S               S
                                                        FMS (1); HEPRCONS (1)
               Feb.-Mar. 2001                      6    TS (1); TE (1); RS (1); SEIS (1);       S               S
                                                        DO (1); FMS (1)

 ICR
               May 2002                            8     TS (1); HE (1); TP (1); RS             S               S
                                                         (1); FMS (1); SEIS (1);
                                                         DO (1); INSCONS (1)

TS=Transport Specialist, TE=Transport Engineer, HECONS=Highway Engineer Consultant, CONS=Consultant,
HEPRCONS=Highway Engineer / Procurement Consultant, RS=Resettlement Specialist, INSCONS=Institutional Consultant,
SEIS=Socio Economic Impact Specialist, DO=Disbursement Officer, FMS=Financial Management Specialist, HE=Highway
Engineer, TP=Transport Planner

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                          102                             273
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                97                             226
  Supervision                                         182                             368
  ICR                                                  18                              37
  Total                                               399                             904




                                                         - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, November 22, 1996
Development Credit Agreement, January 8, 1997
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on a proposed Supplemental Credit, May 19, 1999
Agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement, June 21, 1999
Aide Memoires
Socio-Economic Monitoring & Evaluation, Completion Report, June 2002
Borrower's Project Completion Report
Socio-Economic Impact Study, Final Report




                                             - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. Socioeconomic Impact of Rural Roads

1.       Background

1.1      Based on the GoB's strategy for rural development, the LGED has been implementing a series of
RDPs to improve rural transport and trading infrastructure. One of these was the Bank-funded RRMIMP,
which was implemented in eight districts of the northwest region. A follow-on project (the Project) was
initiated in mid-1996 to extend the scope and the geographical coverage of the earlier project, and added six
more districts in Greater Dhaka area.

1.2      A built-in element of the Project was the continuous monitoring and evaluation of the direct and
indirect effects of the Project. The BIDS was commissioned to carry out a study to analyze and quantify
both the short-term and longer-term impacts of rural road improvements on pertinent economic and social
indicators within the project influence areas. The BIDS conducted a benchmark socio-economic survey
before road improvements took place in May-September 1997. The survey was repeated during August
2000 to February 2001 after the road improvements, in order to collect the same set of information, for
assessing the impacts on short-term. This annex summarizes the BIDS findings on the employment and
poverty impact of the Project, in the short-term. Third phase of surveys will be carried out later, to assess
the longer-term impacts. The findings of the SEME study, carried out separately through the DSMC, are
presented under Annex 3.

2.       Data Description and Methodology

2.1      For the purpose of the impact study, ten project roads and four control roads were originally
selected for the study. Six of the project roads were in the northwestern districts, and the four were in the
Greater Dhaka Area. The two control roads were in northwestern districts, while the other two were in
Greater Dhaka districts. The control roads were chosen to make sure that they are not programmed for
development for the duration of the study, and were selected from areas that were similar to the areas
around the relevant project roads in socio-economic and ecological conditions and road density. For the
analysis, the four project roads that had controls were designated as Project-I roads, while the remaining
six project roads for which no controls were selected were designated as Project-II roads.

2.2      In terms of the selection of villages for the study, one roadside village was selected for each of the
14 sample roads (ten project and four control roads). In addition, one remote village was selected for each
of the sample roads for assessing the decay effects of infrastructure development. The remote villages are
similar to the roadside villages, except for their distance and were purposively selected to be at least two
km away from the study road or from any other paved road. Thus, there were 28 study villages in all - 14
roadside and 14 remote, of which 8 fell under Project-I area, 8 were control villages, and 12 fell under
Project-II area.

2.3      In terms of household survey, 50 households were originally selected (for benchmark survey) from
each of the 28 study villages using stratified random sampling procedure, which gave 1400 sample
households. However, because of the reduction in the number of study roads and people moving out of the
area, the size of the sample households for the repeat survey was reduced to 872.

2.4      Information on a wide range of socio-economic variables were collected from the study area for
"before-after" and "with-without" infrastructure development situations. The "before-after" comparison
was intended to indicate the change that had taken place during the inter-survey period. The information



                                                       - 45 -

was contrasted with the data from the "with-without" situation to ascertain the extent to which the observed
changes were autonomous in nature and not influenced by road development. Multivariate regression
analysis were used to assess the direction and the magnitude of change and to examine whether there are
differences between the project and the control area with respect to these changes.

2.5      Three sets of field surveys were initiated for collecting information regarding the impact of road
and market infrastructure improvement on various sectors of the rural economy. These are: (a) Household
Survey, (b) Market, Community & Facility Survey, and (c) Transport Survey.

3.       Findings of the Study

3.1      Impact on Rural Employment and Agriculture Diversification

3.1.1    Migration. The analysis conducted using the ex ante and ex post data reveals that the reduction in
transport costs resulting from the developments of rural transport infrastructure facilitates the movement of
labor to employment centers, and thus reduces the need for out-migration from rural areas to the far away
places in search of employment. The number of household members in project area increased by 1.8%,
after controlling for normal population, suggesting that there was an in-migration to the villages with
project roads. In contrast, in the control areas, the number of household members declined by 1.5%, after
controlling for normal population changes, suggesting an out-migration of people from villages where rural
road improvements did not take place.

3.1.2    Labor Force Growth and Participation. During the inter-survey period, labor force, defined as
those persons between the ages of 10 and 86 who were either employed or actively looking for work,
increased by nearly 13.3% in the Project I area and by 9.1 % in the control area. Similarly, the project
areas showed a 3.1% increase on economic participation rate of the labor force, versus only 2.1% in
control areas.

3.1.3    Incidence of Female Employment. The bulk of the changes observed in labor force and in
economic participation appear to be due to increase in the size of the female labor force and female
participation rate, suggesting that the rural road improvements had a gender dimension. Before road
development, the incidence of female employment was rather low in the study area, and the bulk of female
employment before road development was in the service sector including housemaid, teacher, other services
etc. During the inter-survey period, female employment declined in the control area but increased by 50%
in the project area. However, almost all the incremental employment remained limited to the service sector.

3.1.4    Non-agricultural Employment. Diversification of the rural economy away from agriculture is one
of the prime considerations behind initiatives towards rural infrastructure development. The results show
that agriculture has been the dominant economic activity in the study area both before and after road
development. However, while agriculture accounted for nearly 64.9% of the employed population in the
project area before road development, it declined after road improvement to 52.9%. More importantly, the
decline in agriculture employment was more pronounced in the project area than the control area. The
evidence therefore suggests that road infrastructure development results in employment diversification
where non-agricultural employment increased at a much higher rate in project areas compared to the
control area during the inter-survey period.

         Trade, transport, and service were the dominant forms of non-agricultural activities in the study
area with manufacturing being somewhat less important. After road development, however, project areas
experienced higher growth in manufacturing employment, as compared to the control areas. Increase in


                                                      - 46 -

manufacturing employment took place in bakery, sweetmeat, handloom, and goldsmith.

3.1.5    Diversification to Non-Crop Agriculture. An expected outcome of rural infrastructure
development is diversification of agriculture through the development of various non-crop activities. The
evidence shows that there has been some improvement in the project area in this respect. Employment in
livestock and poultry activities increased from 0 to 7 in project areas. One possible interpretation of this
limited improvement is that while infrastructure development is a necessary condition for growth of
non-crop agriculture, this alone may not be sufficient to overcome other supply-side bottlenecks that may
be constraining the growth of these sub-sectors.

3.2      Impact on Poverty

3.2.1    Changes in Poverty level. The analysis shows that faster progress in poverty reduction during the
inter-survey period was observed in the project areas than the control areas. The proportion of population
below the poverty line decreased by 2% in the project areas, while it increased by 4% in the control areas.

3.2.2    Physical Asset. Higher physical capital endowment such as agricultural and non-agricultural assets
is an important source for accelerating growth in household incomes. Three aspects are noteworthy. The
pace of physical capital accumulation was much higher in project areas than in control areas. The average
amount of fixed assets has increased across the land ownership groups during this period. However, there
was a high degree of inequality in the ownership of non-land fixed assets. A significant shift has taken
place in the portfolio of assets favoring non-agricultural assets across all the land ownership categories.
This is, perhaps, because these assets yield higher incomes than agricultural assets. The portfolio
diversification in favor of non-agriculture has been more pronounced in the context of project areas
compared with the control areas, consistent with the hypotheses that road improvements support
diversification activities in rural areas. The share of non-agricultural assets has increased dramatically from
25% to 51% after road improvement in the project areas, while the pace of diversification was rather
modest in the control areas, increasing from 25% to 30 % in the inter-survey period.

3.2.3    Growth in Consumption Expenditure. Per capita annual consumption grew by 1.5% during the
inter-survey period in all study villages. But the growth in consumption expenditure was twice as high in
the project areas compared with the control areas (2% vs. 1%). It may be noted that the initial level of
consumption was higher in the project areas than in control areas.

3.2.4    Incidence of "Hungry Poor". The incidence of "hungry poor", measured by the head-count index
based on direct calorie intake, has gone down at a faster pace in the project areas relative to the control
areas. The annual growth rate in per capita calorie intake was 1.5% in the project areas compared with
only 0.1% in the control areas. Faster progress in the overall supply of calorie at the aggregate level is
possibly the outcome of higher agricultural growth and greater expansion of non-agricultural opportunities
in the project areas following the development of road network. From the food security perspective, it is
important to consider the distribution of food consumption across, suggesting that the impact of roads on
the distribution of food consumption has been quite favorable.




                                                      - 47 -

- 48 -

