Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15321-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROKVEMNT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
November 22. 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(August 1996)
Bangladesh Taka (Tk) 1      =             US$0.0238
US$1                        =             Tk 41.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =             1.1 yard
1 kilometer (kim)           =             0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =             2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =             2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACE           -      Additional Chief Engineer
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
ADP           -      Annual Development Program
APO           -      Annual Plan of Operations
BC            -      Bituminous Carpet
BIWTA         -      Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BCBOA         -      Bangladesh Country Boats Owner's Association
BUET          -      Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
CARE          -      Co-operation for American Relief Everywhere
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
DBST          -      Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DC            -      Deputy Commissioner
DSM           -      Design, Supervision and Monitoring
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
FRA           -      Feeder Road Type A
FRB           -      Feeder Road Type B
FY            -      Fiscal Year
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GOB           -      Government of Bangladesh
GTZ           -      Gesellschaft for Technische Zusammenarbeitung
HBB           -      Herring Bone Bond (Brick Pavement)
Vice President:          Mr. Joseph Wood (SASVP)
Director:                Ms. Mieko Nishimizu (SA1DR)
Division Chief:          Ms. Marie Robinson (SAlIN)
Task Manager:            Mr. Thampil Pankaj (SA1IN)



ii
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -      International Development Agency
IFC          -      International Finance Corporation
IFFD         -      Integrated Food for Development
ISP          -      Institutional Support Program
IWT          -      Inland Water Transport
KfW          -      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LAAP         -      Land Acquisition Action Plan
LGD          -      Local Government Division (of MLGRD&C)
LGED         -      Local Government Engineering Department
MANCAPS   -         Management Capability Strengthening
MIS          -      Management Information System
MLGRD&C   -         Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Co-operatives
NCB          -      National Competitive Bidding
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
NMT          -      Non-Motorized Transport
NORAD        -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PAP          -      Project Affected Person
PCP          -      Project Concept Paper
PD           -      Project Director
PID          -      Project Implementation Document
PIO          -      Project Implementation Office
RDP          -      Rural Development Project
RHD          -      Roads and Highways Department
RIMC         -      Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell
RRI          -      Rural Roads Type 1
RR2          -      Rural Roads Type 2
RRMIMP       -      Rural Roads Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project
RRMIMP-2   -        Second Rural Roads Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project
RRNC         -      Rural Roads Network Component
SBD          -      Standard Bidding Document
SBST         -      Single Bituminous Surface Treatment
SDC          -      Swiss Development Co-operation
SEM&E        -      Socio-economic Monitoring and Evaluation
SIDA         -      Swedish International Development Agency
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditure
SRR          -      Structure on Rural Road
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TDCC         -      Thana Development Co-ordination Committee
TNO          -      Tlhana Nirbahi Officer
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
UMMC         -      Union Market Management Committee
WBM          -      Water Bound Macadam






iii
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT
SUMMARY ..........................................................................                                            vi
1. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND ......................................................................1
A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC  CONTEXT ...................................................................... 1
Geography, Population And Poverty .............................................................. 1
Rural Economy ..........................................................................                     I
B. THE RURAL TRANSPORT AND  TRADING  SYSTEM  ......................................... 2
The Road Network ..........................................................................                 3
The Road Vehicle Fleet and Non-Motorized Transport ...........                        ............................ 5
The Water Transport System  .......................................................................  6
The Rural Market Network ......................................................................... 6
Market Organization and leasing ................................................................... 7
C. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS ............... 8
The Administrative Structure .......................................................................  8
Local Government Bodies .......................................................................... 9
The Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) - (The project
implementation agency) ..........................................................................  11
D. RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE  STRATEGY ....................................................... 13
E.  MAINTENANCE AND  SUSTAINABILITY  ..................                             .................................... 15
F.  IMPACT OF RURAL ROADS AND  MARKETS DEVELOPMENT  ........                                             ................ 15
G. IDA  INVOLVEMENT IN  THE  SECTOR: LESSONS ............                                  ............................... 17
2. THE PROJECT ..........................................................................                                      19
A. PROJECT ORIGIN  AND  CONCEPT ...............................                       ................................ 19
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................................................    19
C. RATIONALE FOR  IDA  INVOLVEMENT .....................                             ................................... 19
D.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  ..........................................................................  20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Bangladesh during December 1995,
comprising Messrs./Mmes. Thampil Pankaj (Task Manager/Mission Leader), Jaswant Channe (Highway
Engineer/Procurement, Consultant) Paul Guitink (Non-Motorized Transport Specialist), Subhash Seth
(Highway Engineer, Consultant), Eddy Bynens (Institutional Development, Consultant), Lars Lund (Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Specialist) and Shahidur Khandker (Poverty and Social Policy Specialist) from
the International Development Association; and Paul Peter, Philippe Besson and Rahmatullah Habib from
Swiss Development Cooperation. Staff from the Bangladesh Resident Mission included: Messrs./Mmes.
Mohiuzzaman Quazi (Transportation Engineer) and T.K. Barua (Resettlement Specialist); and Ms. Sultana
Begum and Ms.Rina Sengupta (Participation Consultants) also contributed to the preparation of the project.
The project is endorsed by Ms. Mieko Nishimizu, Director, Country Department 1, South Asia Region, and
Ms. Marie Robinson, Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department 1, South Asia Region.
The Peer Review team comprised Mr. Anil Bhandari (EAIIN) and Ms. Frannie Humplick (PRDEI). Ms.
Roziah Baba (SAIIN) assisted in the production of this report.



iv
Project Components ....................................................  20
Project Area ....................................................                                                          21
Detailed  Features ....................................................                                                    22
E.  PROJECT  COSTS  ....................................................  31
F.   PROJECT  FINANCING  ....................................................                                                          33
G. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION                                                 .................................. 35
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ................................................. 36
A. AN OVERVIEW  OF THE PARTICIPATORY PROCESS ..................................... 36
B.  PROJECT  MANAGEMENT                                      ....................................................  37
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                               ...................................... 38
D.  PROCUREMENT  ....................................................                                                                  38
E.  DISBURSEMENTS  .................................................... 41
F. REPORTING ....................................................                                                                      43
G. ACCOUNTS ....................................................                                                                       43
H.  FINANCIAL  AND  TECHNICAL  AUDITS  .................................................... 43
I.  MONITORING, SUPERVISION  AND  EVALUATION  .......................                                              .................. 44
J. LAND ACQUISITION ....................................................                                                               44
K. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                                             ......................................... 45
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION & RISKS                                              .......................................... 46
A. PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC RETURN ............................................ 46
Nature of project benefits .................................................... 46
Economic Return Analysis .................................................... 47
Other Development Impacts ....................................................                                             50
B.  PROJECT  RISKS  .................................................... 51
Sensitivity  Analysis ................................................... 54
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............................................. 55
ANNEXES
1.1    The Local Government System, and Management of Markets and Ghats
1.2   Institutional Development of Local Government Engineering Department
1.3    Financing of Rural Infrastructure Development and Maintenance, and list of on-ongoing
projects
1.4    Impact of Rural Infrastructure Development
2.1    Selection Criteria and Implementation Procedures for Physical Components
2.2    Project Component Details
2.3    Community Participation in the Project
2.4    Pilot Program to Improve Non-Motorized Transport (NMT)
2.5    Equipment Requirements for the Project
2.6    Training Component under the Project
2.7    Outline Terms of Reference for Studies
2.8    Maintenance of Rural Infrastructure
2.9    Project Costs and Financing



v
3.1   Project Management Organogram
3.2   Incremental Staff for Project Implementation
3.3    Assessment of Implementation Capacity
3.4   Project Implementation Schedule
3.5   Procurement Plan for Civil Works Packages
3.6    Disbursement Schedule
3.7    Monitoring and Evaluation Plan and Performance Indicators
3.8   Land Acquisition Plan: Summary
3.9   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:Summary
4.1    Documents in Project File (including the Project Implementation Documents (PIDs))
Maps: IBRD Nos. 27808, 27726 and 27727






vi
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   People's Republic of Bangladesh
Implementing Agency:        Local Government Engineering Department and Local Government
Division of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives
Beneficiaries:              Union Parishads (local government agencies); poor women and
landless workers, and rural communities all over Bangladesh
Poverty:                    Program of Targeted Interventions (see para. 4.17)
Amount:                     SDR 91.2 million (US$133 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:             Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed
credit balance set annually by Executive Directors of IDA)
Financing Plan:             See Table 2.2 of Staff Appraisal Report
Economic Rate               About 30% (for project components covering 75 % of total
of Return:                  costs)
Maps:                       IBRD Nos.27808, 27726 and 27727
Proiect Identification No.:    BD-PA-9518






BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT
Geography, Population And Poverty
1.1    Most of the land area of Bangladesh is a low-lying, nearly flat, fertile, alluvial flood plain.
Three major river systems flow through the country into the Bay of Bengal. 80% of the annual
rainfall, which averages from 1,200 mm to 3,500 mm in different parts of the country, occurs during
the monsoon season and large areas are subject to 'normal' annual flooding from the monsoon and the
snow melt in the Himalayas, making Bangladesh one of the wettest areas in the world. In addition,
Bangladesh is prone to natural disasters including abnormal flooding and cyclones. These geographical
features make the construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure particularly difficult and
expensive, as land transport requires the building of higher embankments and many bridges and
drainage structures, and as river transport requires frequent dredging to remove silt and also faces
safety problems. The country also lacks adequate supply of natural stones, and therefore road works
have to depend on costly bricks baked out of clay for use as road materials.
1.2    With a population of about 120 million (1995), Bangladesh has a population density of about
813 persons per sq.km, making it the most densely populated country among non-city states. It is also
one of the poorest countries, with a per capita income of about US$240. Its Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) which grew at a low 1.8% per annum during the period 1980 to 1992, has recently increased at
a much higher rate of 4.4% during Fiscal Years (FY) 1992-95 rising to 4.7% in FY96; but this is yet
to make any significant dent on poverty. Poverty is more widespread in the rural areas and among
women; about half the rural population lives below the level of "absolute poverty" (defined as an
intake of 2,122 calories per person per day), and more than a quarter live below the "hard core" (with
per capita intake of less than 1,805 calories). Bangladesh remains primarily a rural society, with about
80% of the population living in rural areas.
Rural Economy
1.3    Bangladesh remains primarily a rural society, with about 80% of the population living in rural
areas. Agriculture is the major rural economic activity, contributing about 33% of GDP in 1995 (a
drop from 55% in 1970), providing about 69% of all employment and directly or indirectly producing
most of the country's exports.  About 66%  of the total land area of the country is cultivable.



2
Agricultural land is intensively utilized, with no unsettled land left to exploit, and is fertile. The
cropping intensity, taking account of multiple cropping, is more than 170%. About 70% of the
agricultural GDP is from crop production, the remainder from forestry, livestock and fisheries.
1.4    There is a growing trend towards diversification of agriculture, which requires more timely
transportation and marketing, and yields higher income. The growth of agricultural production in
recent years is the result of increasing use of high yielding variety (HYV) seeds, fertilizers and
irrigation, and a move to higher value crops. The current agricultural strategy of the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) focuses on continuing development and diffusion of seed, fertilizer and water
technologies; increased crop diversification into higher value crops; a more competitive internal
marketing system with a greater role for the private sector; an improved rural transport infrastructure;
and improved access for rural people to sustainable employment opportunities.
1.5    As a predominantly rural country, rural infrastructure plays a vital role in supporting economic
growth. Studies in Bangladesh and elsewhere have shown a strong linkage between improved rural
access and market facilities, on the one hand, and increased agriculture production, employment, farm
and non-farm incomes, social development, and poverty alleviation. In Bangladesh, where poverty is
pervasive particularly in the rural areas where the bulk of the population lives, improving rural
infrastructure, which is in very poor condition at present, is an important strategy of GOB for
increasing and diversifying farm production, for raising incomes and living standards, and for reducing
poverty. Further, special emphasis is being given while designing rural infrastructure projects to
maximize employment and poverty impact by using labor-intensive technology wherever viable and by
targeting the poor for receiving income generating opportunities under the projects. Under recent and
ongoing projects, with considerable IDA and other donor support, GOB has made a good beginning in
strengthening infrastructure-related institutions and policies, in setting good quality standards, and in
making physical progress in improving infrastructure, but there is still a long way to go to meet the
massive investment needs in the sector.
B. THE RURAL TRANSPORT AND TRADING SYSTEM
1.6    The characteristics of high population density, high productivity of land, intensive cultivation,
small-scale farming and poverty-induced sale of even subsistence level production, search for
employment by the under-employed in farms and non-farm activities, and an active non-farm sector,
together generate intensive trading of goods and services in the rural areas and a high level of demand
for movement of goods and people; as a result the level of traffic in the rural areas of Bangladesh,
particularly in using the popular non-motorized forms of transport and the local "hats" or markets,
remains high. Although rural Bangladesh is poor, it has many characteristics which result in a highly
active rural cash economy in which mobility and trading are of crucial importance.
1.7    The main elements of Bangladesh's rural transport and trading infrastructure are: (1) rural
roads, which are, though extensive, mainly poor quality earth roads, requiring improved surfacing and
pavements on a selective basis, and interspersed with many gaps to be filled with drainage structures
for allowing uninterrupted traffic; most of these are seasonal roads, generally not usable in the rainy
season, creating considerable hardship for transportation during the monsoon period; and road
trangport with a strikingly dominant share of non-motorized transport (manually pedaled cycle-
rickshaws, passenger rickshaws and rickshaw vans, and to some extent animal -drawn carts) which
provide reasonably efficient rural transport suited to the small- parcel loads needed by most farmers,
and also provide employment to a large number of the rural poor. (2) inland water transport (IWT).
the traditional transport system of Bangladesh, which criss-crosses the country and carries a large part
of rural traffic through small country boats, but needs to be better integrated with road transport with
the provision of more landing facilities (river ghats) for country boats, while also requiring other



3
improvements such as channel dredging, navigational safety aids etc; and (3) the rural market
network, with over 8000 rural markets or "hats' spread over the country, effectively constituting the
nerve center of the rural economy, facilitating the trading of all rural produce and most farm inputs
and consumer goods; most of these markets lack basic facilities (paved areas, sheds, clean water,
drainage, and garbage disposal facilities) and good transport access, resulting in unhygienic and
inefficient conditions for marketing produce. GOB has designated about 2,100 of these markets, based
on objective socio-economic criteria, as growth center markets for priority development. About 300
of these markets have been improved during the last ten years. These separate elements of the rural
transport and trading system are further discussed below.
1.8    At the national level, in 1992/93, the share of passenger traffic carried by roads is 75%, IWT
13% and railways is 12%: the share of freight-km traffic is 61% by roads, 32% by IWT and 7% by
railways. In the case of rural transport, road transport plays the major role in the rural movement of
people and goods, carrying over 60% of all traffic. Water transport holds the next largest share, and
particularly during the monsoon when many areas are flooded and the water level is high for easy
navigation. Rail transport is of only marginal significance in rural areas. More details on the level,
structure and pattem of rural traffic is presented in Document 1 (PID-1) in the Project Implementation
Documents (PIDs) (see Annex 4.1).
The Road Network
1.9   Responsibility for the total road network in the country is divided between the Roads and
Highways Department (RHD) of the Ministry of Communications, which focuses on the national and
regional roads, and the Local Govermnent Engineering Department (LGED) of the Ministry of Local
Govermment, Rural Development and Co-operatives (MLGRD&C), which focuses on rural and feeder
roads. The RHD-managed network comprises:
National Highways:         Connecting  the  national capital Dhaka with  Divisional
headquarters and other important urban centers, ports, and
international highways.
Regional Highways:         Connecting regional (greater district) centers and District
headquarters with the national highways.
Feeder Roads Type A (FRA): Connecting Thana headquarters to the regional and national
(sub-regional roads)       highway system.
1.10   There are about 5,500 km of National and Regional Highways, predominantly bitumen-
surfaced, and about 10,000 km of FRAs mostly paved with bitumen or brick surface. There are many
unbridged river crossings on RHD roads but vehicle ferries serve these gaps. Improvement of the
management of the road network under RHD is being pursued currently under various  donor-
supported projects initiated by GOB, with the leading projects setting the framework agenda being the
IDA-supported Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Projects 1&2, (Credits 1827-BD and 2638-BD)
which are currently making good progress.
1.11   The Local Government road network, i.e. the rural road network, most of it managed through
the LGED which is the technical body established to assist the local bodies in infrastructure planning,
construction and maintenance, comprises:



4
Feeder Roads Type B (FRB): Connecting growth centers (important rural markets described
below) to the regional road network (RHD roads) or to the
Thana  headquarters.   (Prescribed  Standards:  7.32  m
embankment crest width; 3.7 m carriageway width).
Rural Roads Type 1 (RR1):   Connecting local markets and Union headquarters with the
Thana headquarters or the 'road system' (i.e. FRBs or RHD
roads).  (Standards: Embankment crest width 4.87  m;
carriageway width 3.05 m).
Rural Roads Type 2 (RR2):   Connecting villages and farms to local markets and Union
headquarters. (Embankment crest width 3.72 m).
Rural Roads Type 3 (RR3):   Roads within villages. (Embankment crest width: 2.44 m).
These roads are intended to be managed by the local governments, but currently the local governments
are very weak (see para. 1.30), and therefore LGED plays a leading role in their improvement and
maintenance.
1.12   Although classified as 'roads', most RR3s are footpaths within villages and should be strictly
excluded from the category of engineered roads, particularly for purposes of comparison with other
countries. Excluding RR3s (which are managed and maintained by the UPs), the length and surface
condition of the LGED road network is as follows:
Feeder Roads Type B (FRB): About 8,400 km of which 23% paved with bitumen or brick,
the remainder earthen.
Rural Roads Type 1 (RRI):   About 38,000 km, predominantly earthen.
Rural Roads Type 2 (RR2):   About 49,000 kIn, predominantly earthen.
LGED is currently revising the road classification in the light of the recent increase in the number of
classified growth center markets from 1400 to 2100 (which should also increase the number of roads
designated as growth -center connecting roads or FRBs).  In view of the importance of road
classification for investment prioritization, it was agreed during negotiations that GOB would review
with IDA by September 30. 1997. road classification revisions made by LGED. and would take into
account IDA's views while finalizing the revised classification.
1.13   While the length of the rural road network is impressive, their technical quality is very poor.
Most of the LGED roads were first built as earthen embankments using Food For Work Program
(FFW), with no funds for mechanical compaction or provision of structures so that, while providing an
important service to rural areas through partial use, a large part of the network is less than fully
functional as roads providing unbroken and all-season mobility. Roads selected as FRBs (growth -
center connecting) which have generally high present or potential traffic, require additional earthworks
for raising them above flood level, bridges and culverts to provide drainage, and surfacing for smooth
flow of motorized and non-motorized traffic. A particular problem on FRB, RR1 and RR2 roads is the
lack of cross-drainage structures (culverts and bridges).  Additional cross-drainage structures are
needed on many embankmnents to allow balancing of water levels during floods, and there are a large
number of 'gaps' in embankments that have never been bridged. Further, many of the existing
structures are in poor condition, or are damaged and require immediate repair. According to a recent
survey, even the higher priority Feeder-Roads Type B are in very poor condition; only 17% of them



5
are in "good" condition, and only 23% of them are paved roads the rest being mainly earthroads
without any hard surface. Of the lower category rural roads (RR1 and RR2) about 97% are poor
quality earth roads, with about 35,000 gaps needing bridging or culverts (PID-1 gives more details on
road conditions). These gaps force closure of roads in rainy season and block smooth flow of traffic in
fair season. While FRBs need expensive improvements to bring them to adequate standards, in the
case of RI and R2 rural roads (and R3 roads), which is extensive, the prime need is to construct these
missing drainage structures, since the level of traffic on these roads can generally function without
major earth works and other surface improvements. For the whole network, the focus should be and is
on selective improvement of existing roads, with no new road construction.
The Road Vehicle Fleet and Non-Motorized Transport
1.14   A characteristic of the road transport system  in Bangladesh is the co-existence, and
complementarity, of a growing mechanized vehicle fleet with large numbers of non-motorized transport
vehicles (NMT), and the overall larger share of rural traffic carried in NMT. The motor vehicle fleet
has grown quite rapidly, but non-motorized means of road transport remain important and the numbers
of cycle rickshaws and bicycles continue to grow. The motor vehicle fleet in 1994 comprised about
0.35 million vehicles, equivalent to one per 350 persons, and grew by 40% from 1989 to 1994, an
annual growth rate of 6.9%; the major growth was in numbers of auto-rickshaws (which doubled
over the five-year period) and motor cycles which now account for nearly half the total motorized fleet.
(PID-1 gives more details).
1.15   The role of non-motorized transport remains very important for movement of people and goods
in rural areas, complementing the expanding services provided by motor vehicles and reaching down to
lower levels of the road network. Because of the informal nature of the operations, detailed and
reliable official statistics are not available. The main rural non-motorized means of transport, the
estimated numbers in use and their functions are summarized below: (a) Bicycles: There are about
1.5 million, 80% of them in rural areas, and they are owned by nearly 8% of households. They are
used for personal transport, and to carry goods, including bulky loads, on rural roads and earthen
paths; (b) Cycle rickshaws, which consist of passenger rickshaws (or simply rickshaws) and rickshaw
vans are pedal tricycles fitted with a two seater, passenger-carrying body (though they are also often
used to carry goods). Rickshaw 'vans' are similar to passenger rickshaws but used mainly for goods
fitted with a general-purpose flat body that can carry goods and/or passengers, and more robust
wheels. The current stock of rural rickshaws is conservatively estimated at about 300,000. Rickshaws
are found throughout the country, but rickshaw vans are more common in the west and north-west, and
are increasing in number and progressively spreading eastward. Passenger rickshaws and rickshaw
vans operate on rural roads including unimproved earth roads, albeit often with difficulty. They
provide the most extensive transport services in rural areas, and reach further down the system than
motorized vehicles. Rickshaw vans are better adapted to movement of both goods and people, and
provide a cheaper service for passengers. Rural rickshaw pulling provides employment for about
400,000 poor men. According to a recent survey by the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, rickshaw's
share in yearly value addition is 30 percent of the transport sector's total contribution to the GDP; and
(c) Bullock carts: There are over 600,000 bullock carts, though there is evidence that numbers are
declining. They are concentrated in the higher, drier regions of the west and north-west. They tend to
be owned by larger farmers, and are used to move agricultural cargoes between the home and the fields
and on-road, and are also operated for-hire. The large diameter wheels with narrow width steal rims
damage paved roads at a faster rate. Recent studies show (see para. 1.49, PID-1) that both motorized
and non-motorized vehicles increased by about over 140% following road improvement.
1.16   The road designs under ongoing projects, and even more so under the proposed RRMIMP-2,
take into account the special needs of the non-motorized traffic, in providing smoother riding surface,



6
hard shoulders (so that passenger rickshaws, rickshaw-vans and bicycles can easily give way to
motorized traffic to pass, without falling into a lower level shoulder), and in the provision of parking
and access in markets, as well as road safety training for operators.  The proposed project also
includes a pilot component to help improve the design of the NMT vehicles in use with a view to
improve their safety, ridability and efficiency.
The Water Transport System
1.17   Bangladesh has more than 24,000 km of perennially and seasonally navigable waterways.
Historically, the main means of transport was by non-mechanized, wooden country boats. The
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) is responsible for the conservancy and
maintenance of some 6,000 km of waterway; for important inland ports, launch facilities and ferries;
and for the regulation of some 4,500 registered vessels. Below this level the informal, rural inland
water transport sector is much more extensive, comprising of many thousands of kilometers of smaller
waterways; many river jetties/ghats (boat landing, unloading and loading sites), though lacking basic,
safe, facilities; and rural ferry, passenger and cargo transport services provided by country boats.
1.18   The number of country boats is variously estimated at between 730,000 and 1.8 million
including large numbers of small, domestic boats. Of most significance are the 200,000 cargo and
100,000 passenger boats operating commercially on inland waterways. The operation of country boats
has suffered from siltation of some waterways; creation of barriers on some navigation channels
through construction of road embankment and low-level bridges; a perception that they are unreliable
and insecure; and increasing competition from the developing rural road transport system. However in
the 1980s there was a rapid process of mechanization of commercial boats, using low-cost diesel
engines imported to drive irrigation pumps - about 80% of commercial boats are now mechanized.
This has revived the country boat sector, making the boats faster, more reliable, more secure, and
more competitive with road transport. Efforts have also been made to increase the visibility and
'legitimacy' of the country boat sector through the formation of the Bangladesh Country Boat Owners
Association (BCBOA).
1.19   An ongoing IDA-supported IWT project (Credit No. 2232-BD) is currently addressing major
issues in institutional reforms and strengthening, training, navigation safety equipment and facilities,
dredging of river channels, and river port improvements, though its main focus is on the "formal"
sector of classified navigation channels and ports under the control of BIWTA, referred above. The
proposed RRMIMP-2 would provide improved facilities in many river ghats in the project area to serve
the informal boats sector and also provide support to BCBOA for assisting the country boat sector
through better information sharing and safety education. (See paras. 2.26 and 2.32).
The Rural Market Network
1.20   Bangladesh has an extensive network of about 8,000 rural markets, or 'hats', comprising:
*     6,000 primary markets, used primarily by farmers selling surplus produce to local
consumers and local traders.
*      1,500 local assembly markets, used by farmers and local traders exchanging with
intermediary traders who move agricultural produce up to higher levels of the
marketing system, and for the sale of foodstuffs, agricultural inputs and retail goods.



7
*     about 450 secondary markets, typically serving a Thana.  They are used by
intermediary traders exchanging with large buyers, and are focal points for wholesale
and retail sale of agricultural and non-agricultural goods and services.
1.21   Complex, multi-stage trading systems prevail in rural Bangladesh for the accumulation and
evacuation of surplus agricultural produce and the distribution of 'imported' goods. Crops and other
goods change hands several times between producer and final consumer, and different categories of
trader are present at different levels of the marketing system. The more important markets are
characterized by the presence of permanent and semi-permanent structures including shops, storage
facilities, crop processing enterprises, banks and post offices. Many of the more important markets are
centers for the trading of a wide variety of agricultural produce and other goods, but some focus on the
exchange of large quantities of particular commodities such as rice, cattle, or locally-produced cloth.
1.22  In 1984 the GOB adopted a policy of identifying selected important markets as growth centers,
to be focal points for rural development where investments in rural economic and social infrastructure
should be concentrated (see para. 1.43). 1,408 rural local assembly and secondary markets were
designated as growth centers by the Planning Commission in 1984 selected with participation by the
local authorities based on a set of guidelines that included the revenue potential, trading volume,
area/population served, and a minimum distance between neighboring growth centers. In 1994 an
additional 700 markets were selected by the Planning Commission, reflecting population growth and
regional growth, giving a current total of about 2,100 growth centers. Each Thana has at least three
growth centers, some more; there is about one growth center for every two Union Parishads.
Market Organization and leasing
1.23   The markets (market facilities for public use) are managed by the Union Parishads under which
they are located, through Union Market Management Committee (UMMC) which is responsible for
operation and maintenance. (Annex 1.1 gives more details related to this section). The UMMC has
members from local market users, from the UP, and Thana level officials. Most market operations are
on designated market days (about two days in a week), when the markets operate at the busiest level,
or in some cases, on all days. The market vendors (mostly small farmers and poor traders) use
markets on short-term daily basis, and permanent shops are not allowed on the public market area,
though many permanent private shops develop and prosper around these public market centers. Each
market is leased out, for operations and collection of user charges from vendors, to the highest bidder
based on a competitive sealed tender system. The unit market rates or market tariff (per bag, basket,
or weight of goods sold) are fixed by Government at a uniform level for all markets in a District; these
tariff are increased from time to time. Developed markets earn more revenue with the increase of
turnover of goods transacted, as these markets attract more vendors and customers. The lease-holder
is responsible for regular cleaning of the market, while the UMMC is responsible for supervision of
operations by the lease-holder, and for regular maintenance and development of the market.
1.24   The market lease amount is distributed among UP, Thana Development and Coordination
Committee (TDCC, see para. 1.30), and GOB according to a prescribed formula. 15% of the lease
value is allocated for maintenance to the UMCC and another 10 % to the Thana for development and
emergency repairs after possible floods etc. (see Attachment 4, Annex 1.1). These provisions fully
cover operations and maintenance needs to keep the developed markets functioning on a sustainable
basis. Data from markets developed under RRMIMP-1 show that on an average, market improvements
of a medium-size market cost about Taka 2.4 million (about US$60,000); an average medium-size
developed market yields a lease revenue of about Taka 200,000 and needs an estimated Taka 18,000
for regular maintenance. The balance of the lease revenue, reflecting a positive financial return on



8
investment, goes to the UP, TDCC and GOB for use in other development works. A study of 28
markets completed under RRMIMP-1 shows a wide variety of lease income levels: The average lease
income for all of them was Taka 850,000, with the following break-up: for the 9 large markets, the
average lease income was Taka 2,300,000; for the 10 medium markets, it was Taka 208,000, and for
the 9 very small markets (which also cost less), the average was Taka 64,000. As discussed below,
there is scope for increasing lease income by improving the leasing processes.
1.25   The market development, which provides basic facilities for hygiene and cleanliness (for
slaughter of animals for sale of meat, for drainage, garbage disposal, clean water, and sale of food
produce and perishable goods under sheds on a paved platform rather than on muddy ground) is a
valuable social investment in public health considerably benefiting the mostly poor traders and vendors
who use the markets. UPs and GOB do not favor the idea of a higher tariff level (tariff per unit of
quantity sold, such as per basket, bag, etc.), as this may drive the vendors to use unauthorized,
undeveloped and unhygienic locations along roadside, losing revenue for UPs and health benefits for
the public; they point out that higher revenue from increased turn-over, using the same tariff level
would be adequate for cost recovery, particularly since a 30-40% increase has been observed in lease
values after development of markets due to increased turnover. Moreover, the present system allows
full recovery of operation and maintenance costs, with minor exceptions. Field Studies also show that
the lease holders actually get much higher revenue (often about 100% more) than the bid lease value,
due to possible collusiveness in the bidding process; and the lease holders often charge more than the
fixed unit tariff from the poor vendors. With a view to increase revenue from the markets for use in
other development works, without hurting the poor vendors who are the main market users, the project
proposes measures to increase transparency and competition in the bidding process to increase lease
value by squeezing the surplus profit made by the lease holder (see para. 1.35); there will be also more
user participation in managing the markets better.
C. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS
The Administrative Structure
1.26   Bangladesh is divided administratively into six Divisions (Dhaka, Barisal, Chittagong, Khulna,
Rajshahi and the newly created Sylhet Division) plus four Metropolitan urban areas (Dhaka,
Chittagong, Khulna and Rajshahi). The Divisions are divided into Districts and then into Thanas (and
Pourashavas or Municipalities for urban localities within the Districts), Unions and Villages. The
characteristics of the rural administrative structure are summarized as follows:
64 Districts (also         average population, 1.8 million
known as Zilas):           average land area, 2,300 sq.km
460 Thanas (formerly       average population, 250,000
known as Upazilas):        average land area, 320 sq.km
4,451 Unions:              average population, 25,000
average land area, 33 sq.km
About                      average population, 1,350
85,000 Villages:           average land area, 1.75 sq.km
1.27   At central government level the Planning Commission develops rural infrastructure policies
and strategic plans. The plan period of the Fourth Five Year Plan (1991-1995) has now ended. In



9
place of Five Year Plans, the Planning Commission has prepared a longer-term fifteen year Perspective
Development Plan which is now under review by the Government. This Perspective Plan emphasizes a
participatory approach to development, and there has been considerable participation from local bodies
and local interests in its preparation. The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives (MLGRD&C) is responsible for rural development and for managing and supervising the
local government system.  It comprises the Local Government Division (LGD) and the Rural
Development Division (RDD). The Local Government Engineering Department (LGED), which is an
agency of the LGD, and has a decentralized set up, plays the most important role in rural infrastructure
development in coordination with the local government bodies.
1.28   Agencies and departments of central government are strongly represented at Divisional,
District and/or Thana level. In addition each Division has a Divisional Commissioner, each District a
Deputy Commissioner (DC), and each Thana a Thana Nirbahi Officer (TNO), all employees of central
government. Thana is the lowest level where central government offices operate.
Local Government Bodies
1.29   When the ongoing RRMIMP-1 project was approved by IDA in 1988, local government in
Bangladesh had an elected body at the level of the Thana (called the Upazilla Parishad) which had
significant responsibilities in many areas of development and social services, including the maintenance
and partly development of rural infrastructure, financed by funding allocated to them from central
Government and revenue raised on their own. The Union Parishads (about ten in each Thana) were
the elected bodies which operated at the Union level, below the Upazilla Parishads. The RRMIMP-1
project had proposed many measures to further improve the operation of the Upazilla Parishads with
regard to rural infrastructure.
1.30   The system of local government changed radically with a legislation passed in 1991 which
abolished the Upazila (thana) Parishads. This also made the local government structure much weaker
than before. The only level of elected local government is now the level of the Union (group of about
twenty villages). The Union Parishad (Council) has existed in one forn or another in Bangladesh since
the 19th century. Union Parishads (UP) have now been given increased powers of local revenue
generation and responsibilities for rural development activities. They are responsible for certain small
infrastructure projects, for maintenance of Rural Roads (except important RR1s for which LGED takes
responsibility) and, through the Union Market Management Committees (UMMC) for operation and
maintenance of markets. The Upazila Parishads have been partially replaced by the establishment of
Thana Development Co-ordination Committees (TDCCs). The Chairmen of each Union Parishad
constitute the voting membership of the TDCC; Thana-level officials of central government agencies,
including the LGED Thana Engineer, sit on the TDCC as non-voting members, the TNO acts as
secretary and local Members of Parliament acts as advisors. The TDCCs are essentially concerned
with co-ordination and monitoring of development project activities within the Thana. More details of
the local government system are given in Annex 1. 1.
1.31   Each UP has ten elected members, (nine ward members plus Chairman) and three women
members elected by the ward members. At present the Union Parishads are weak, and they are still in
the process of adapting their new responsibilities under the revised local government system. The
physical area of each UP is very small (about 30 sq. km. and a population of about 25,000), which
limits their involvement in planning of certain types of infrastructure development. They have very
limited executive staff capacity (one Union Secretary), so that the work of the UP must be done by its
elected members.



10
1.32   UPs are also financially weak, their average annual income, though widely varying among
them, being only about US$16,000 equivalent, from all sources: from directly raised revenue, share of
market leases, and the annual "Block Grant" from central government which is allocated based on
some socio-economic criteria for spending under pre-fixed guidelines. UPs have significant local
revenue raising powers but at present collection performance is very poor, averaging only about Taka
5 per adult per annum. A proportion of the revenue from the annual leasing of smaller markets is
channeled directly to the UPs, while a proportion of that from larger markets is channeled to the
TDCC to be allocated to development activities in the Unions. At present the major source of revenue
for development activities is the GOB Annual Development Program (ADP) Block Grant for Union
and Thana Development. This amounts to an average of Taka 0.45 million per Union in FY95/96 and
is channeled through the TDCC so that decisions over its allocation to development projects are made
by the UP Chairmen; 25-60% of the Block Grant is earmarked for work on roads, culverts and bridges
in the Unions. (Annex 1.1 gives more details on the financial status and revenue distribution).
1.33   Union Parishads are already involved in the planning and implementation of infrastructure
development activities including the LGED/CARE RMP, to which they contribute 10% of the cost; the
LGED/CARE RRNC project, to which they contribute 10% of the cost of cross-drainage structures;
the LGED/WFP GCCR program; and GOB food for work schemes (see paras. 1.37 and 1.38). The
powers of the UPs to implement infrastructure projects are limited by law. Except for earthworks and
tree plantation they can only contract for works up to Taka 50,000 in value. Infrastructure works in
excess of this value, including those financed from the Block Grant, are tendered through a Thana
Tender Committee (on which the concerned UP Chairman sits), contracts are let by the LGED Thana
Engineer, and the funds are managed by the TNO and the Thana Engineer. This system gives good
control and accountability for project funds.
1.34   There is considerable potential to strengthen the capability of the Union Parishads and related
bodies. GOB and LGED have recently taken some measures to increase local participation within the
existing local government framework and LGED has taken leadership to help increase their planning
capability through the introduction of the Union Plan Book. Much more needs to be done to develop
their capacity for effective operation and maintenance of markets and ghats; the proposed project
would assist in this regard. The most important issue is to increase the financial resources of the
Union Parishads, so that they can hire staff to take on specific tasks, and mobilize funds for
improvement and maintenance of local-level infrastructure. The proposed project addresses this issue,
and several measures have been identified to increase local financial resources.
1.35   One of the main financial issues affecting the project would be that the UPs, which are the
lowest level elected Government in the country have a weak financial basis, and are unable to find
adequate funding for maintaining the infrastructure under their jurisdiction on a sustainable basis and
for constructing essential drainage structures to fill gaps on their roads. A related issue is the poor
arrangements for revenue collection from growth center markets and an inadequate distribution system
of the market lease revenue which gives a very low share of income to the UPs and does not leave
enough incentives for UPs to improve their management. In dealing with these issues, the project
includes two sets of actions: First, up-front actions completed before Board presentation of the project;
second, follow-up measures within about 24 months after Board presentation in the light of future
studies funded under the project.
(a)    The up-front actions (all of these have been completed by October 1996) are the
following: (i) Government reduced its share of market lease revenue from the present
35% to 25% and allowed the additional 10% to go directly to the UPs (this may add
average US$500 equivalent, to UP annual revenue); (ii) Government allocated half of
the land-transfer-tax revenue going now to the Zila Parishad (district), to the UPs



11
generating this revenue, compared to none at present (average allocation from this
source is currently about 10 million Taka per district). Therefore, average increase in
UP revenue from half of this reallocation will be about US$1,800 equivalent). Since
land value increases with improved rural infrastructure, this is a good way of levying
user charges for maintenance; (iii) Government increased the lease value threshold for
UP-managed markets from the current value of Taka 50,000 to Taka 100,000, keeping
the present 40% allocation of lease revenue to the UPs; and (iv) More transparent
procedures and wide based competition have been introduced to reduce collusion in
market leasing, with better information sharing arrangements, publicity arrangements,
tendering done by district level agencies and appropriate user participation under
agreed guidelines. This should apply at least to the developed markets in the project
area. Measures (i) to (iii) may increase the average UP income by about 15% from its
present level of about US$16,000 equivalent. The impact of these measures on central
Government's revenue will be negligible (a reduction of about 0.3% from the present
annual revenue of Taka 141 billion.
(b)   In addition to above interim measures, a study on improving revenue mobilization by
UPs (para. 2.32) including better system for ghats and markets management and
leasing should be completed by about December 1997.  It was agreed during
negotiations that GOB would complete the study on UPs Financial Resource
Mobilization by December 31. 1997 and, in consultation with IDA. prepare a plan of
action based upon the study results, and carry it out by December 31. 1998.
The Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) - (The project implementation agency)
1.36   LGED is currently one of the remarkably successful organizations in the Government sector in
Bangladesh. LGED originated as a small cell in the LGD in the late 1970s. It has evolved, through
the formation of the Works Program Wing in 1982 and of the Local Government Engineering Bureau
in 1984 (which was upgraded to a Department in 1992), into a large and dynamic engineering agency.
LGED has its headquarters in Dhaka, and its infrastructure works are executed though fully established
offices in each of the 64 Districts, each headed by an Executive Engineer (XEN), and in each of the
460 Thanas, each headed by a Thana Engineer (TE). LGED has a decentralized set-up, with an
engineering staff of about 700, and works closely with UPs and TDCCs, and more recently has been
trying to build in more community participation in its operations. Almost all works are contracted out
to private contractors and in the case of some small works to worker groups, with LGED providing
overall management and supervision on behalf of central and local governments.  The present
organization structure of LGED, and its staffing, is in Annex 1.2.
1.37  In accordance with the 1984 Strategy for Rural Developments Projects LGED is implementing
a portfolio of donor-supported RDPs in different regions of the country (see Annex 1.3, Table 1),
primarily concerned with improvement of the rural road and market network. Up to end FY1994/95,
some 2,300km of FRB have been improved, about 33,000 running metres of bridges and culverts
constructed, and about 300 growth center markets improved, under these projects.
1.38   The RDPs are complemented by the following food-aided rural development projects, also
implemented through LGED:
*  The WFP-supported growth center Connecting Roads Program (GCCR) which constructs
improved FRB earthen embankments (about 4,000km to date) and small FRB cross-
drainage structures.



12
*   A nationwide medium and large bridges construction program financed by UNSAID PL-
480 monetized food-aid.
*   The LGED/CARE Road Maintenance Project (RMP), recently transferred from  the
Ministry of Relief. This national program uses monetized CIDA food-aid to support the
maintenance of Rural Roads by teams of assetless women.
*   The Rural Road Network Component (RRNC) of the USAID-supported Integrated Food
for Development (IFFD) program. This national program, implemented in partnership
with CARE, supports earthworks improvements and the construction of small cross-
drainage structures on Rural Roads,
*   The EC-supported Integrated Food-Assisted Rural Development Project (IFADEP).
LGED implements the IFADEP component concerned with improvement of earthern
growth center Connecting Roads.
1.39   The rural road and market related infrastructure development and maintenance projects under
the responsibility of LGED, as listed in Annex 1.3. Tables 1 and 2, have a total estimated cost of
about US$1.3 billion with estimated expenditure (foreign and local) in FY95/96 of about US$180
million. This excludes allocations for rural road maintenance (US$16.3 million in 1995/96) also
handled through LGED.
1.40   LGED's broader infrastructure responsibilities include small-scale water resources, irrigation
and flood control, rural water supply and sanitation, urban infrastructure development in secondary
and rural towns, and construction of cyclone shelters and primary schools. LGED contributes to the
generation of productive employment by emphasizing the use of labor-intensive methods for
construction and maintenance works wherever appropriate, including the employment of labor groups
known as Labor Contracting Societies (LCS, organized by workers as contracting firms for small
works).
1.41   Many of the donor-supported projects in LGED have technical assistance inputs which aim to
develop planning, implementation and management capability.   The SIDA/NORAD  financed
Institutional Support Project (ISP) provides long-term support focusing on physical planning and
mapping, technical design and management, and training. The proposed third phase of ISP (1996-
2000) was appraised in late 1995. As part of RDP-18 the ADB is financing long-term technical
assistance on maintenance management, training, and the Management Capability Strengthening Study
(MANCAPS) for LGED. The institutional components for strengthening LGED proposed under
RRMIMP-2 are designed in close coordination with these efforts by SID/NORAD, ADB and other
agencies.
1.42   LGED is recognized by all funding agencies as efficient in managing and implementing
projects in co-ordination with donors. The first phase of MANCAPS has produced an action plan for
the management strengthening of LGED1 which concludes that the organization is effective and
successful, and is characterized by team work, field orientation, dynamic leadership and hard work.
However, following a period of rapid growth LGED personnel are now overloaded with work, and
this has led to a number of ad hoc organizational arrangements. As LGED reaches maturity and enters
a new phase of development it is important to consolidate and strengthen the organization. MANCAPS
I          Draft Action Plan - Directions in Management Development of LGED. MANCAPS, March
1995.



13
therefore recommends a comprehensive re-organization of LGED including a new level of management
between the Districts and headquarters so as to reduce the present span of control under which about
80 officials report directly to the Chief Engineer; strengthening of the headquarters management
structure; the integration of ISP functions into the established structure including the creation of a
Design Cell; and the strengthening of planning, monitoring and evaluation, management information
systems (MIS) functions. The MANCAPS recommendations, and the proposed organization structure,
are in Annex 1.2. The RRMIMP-2 Appraisal Mission agreed with many of the MANCAPS
recommendations and, in co-ordination with inputs from other financing agencies and GOB, a number
of them will be implemented and financed under the project in order to contribute to the management
strengthening of LGED. In addition, the project would also reinforce LGED's ongoing efforts in
making it a participatory organization with active involvement of project beneficiaries, by
incorporating participation specialists and training in its organization (see paragraphs 2.33 and 3.1).
D. RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE STRATEGY
1.43   The Government has followed a consistent strategy in recent years to improve rural
infrastructure on a selective basis while also improving its highway network, with emphasis on better
integration of the transport sector investments and policy, and better coordination among transport
agencies, such as RHD and LGED. GOB published a "Rural Development Strategy" in 1984, which
enunciated a strategy based on focusing resources to develop "growth centers" with maximum potential
for growth  in rural areas, selected on the basis of clearly defined criteria of socio-economic
importance and development potential; this also defined Government's rural infrastructure strategy,
directed to help growth center development as its main focus. The rural infrastructure strategy as
defined in the Five Year Plans, in line with the above Rural Development Strategy, has been to focus
on improving: (a) Type B feeder roads (FRBs) (also called growth - center- connecting roads) which,
by definition, connect selected "growth centers" in sub-districts (Thana) to thana headquarters or the
nearest all-weather road; there are 2100 "growth centers" in the country; (b) selected other rural roads
(Rl, R2), which connect villages with growth centers or feeder roads; (c) provision of drainage
structures (culverts/bridges) on important rural roads; and (d) market structures and facilities in the
growth centers. The "growth center connecting roads" is a good concept in selectivity, this being
treated as the core of rural roads; though classified as FRBs, they are mostly earth roads and need
upgrading into reasonable minimum quality standards to provide expected service. Similarly, the
selected growth center markets form a core group of high priority, from among about 8,000 local
markets. The emphasis has been on improving existing facilities, with minimal new construction,
particularly in the case of roads. In the light of a recent review of the working of this strategy which
basically endorsed its continuation (see para. 1.45 below) the Government is now continuing with this
rural infrastructure strategy into the future, through the Perspective Development Plan for the Country
(1995-2010) recently formulated by the National Planning Commission.
1.44   Recent Progress: The 1984 Strategy Paper envisaged a 10-year infrastructure improvement
program (1985-1995) with construction/upgrading of 6,400 km of FRBs, 9,600 km of rural roads,
132,000 running meters of culverts/bridges, and 1,400 markets. This infrastructure program is being
implemented mainly through some eight different ongoing projects (and some completed projects)
(called Rural Development Projects - RDPs, please see Annex 1.3. Tables 1 and 2. listing ongoing
RDPs), spread over the country, all with financial assistance from aid-agencies (including IDA, and
ADB: IDA has an ongoing project, this proposed one being a follow-up project; ADB has completed
one project, and has recently launched a second project). Many of these ongoing projects are regional
projects focusing on different regions, while two are national projects (one funding rural bridges in the
country, financed by USAID, and another, funded by Swedish aid, providing technical assistance and
institutional support to LGED for improving planning and implementation of rural road programs in
coordination with the local Government agencies.  Separate regional projects allow  separate



14
procurement and other rules applicable to different funding agencies, make projects more manageable,
and the projects are well-coordinated by the GOB and LGED and fit into national and regional
priorities, as shown by the results of a recent review (see para. below). LGED has five additional
national programs fully funded by Government, focusing on rural infrastructure development. The
total cost of all these ongoing projects is about US$1,300 million equivalent, of which infrastructure
components (roads and markets and related technical assistance) are about US$1,100 million
equivalent. LGED is recognized by all funding agencies as efficient and competent in managing these
projects. These projects are progressing satisfactorily and have already produced good impact on the
rural areas where they serve, as demonstrated by impact studies. However, in terms of physical
progress, these projects have collectively been able to achieve so far only about 30% of national targets
for 1995 fixed 10 years ago, due to (1) the ambitious nature of these targets which were not matched
by resources and projects needed to meet them, and (2) the slow start of many projects due to the
learning process in building up institutional and contractor capacity for efficient implementation. This
has left huge unmet demands for improvement, further increased by population growth. This, and the
generally poor condition of rural infrastructure in the country, underline the need to continue efforts at
a faster pace.
1.45   A review of the GOB's rural infrastructure strategv and performance was recently undertaken
jointly by IDA, LGED and GOB agencies, in consultation with other domestic stakeholders and
cofinanciers (see Bangladesh Rural Infrastructure Strategy Study by IDA/LGED, February 1996; BD-
SR-15732). The main conclusion of the review is that the current strategy's growth center approach
remains valid and no major changes are required; only some readjustments or 'fine tuning' may be
justified in the light of the experience acquired by the different Rural Development Projects, as
discussed below: Targets will have to be reset after the recent increase from 1400 to 2100 growth
centers; and some minor readjustments will be needed in the spatial distribution of infrastructure
investments to be fully in line with agricultural production and potential. The review recommends,
further, to put more emphasis on user/community participation in planning, implementation and
monitoring and in funding; improved use of local resources such as local materials and the use of labor
based techniques; coordination in the use of complementary modes of transportation, specifically
waterways; increasing the role of the private sector, strengthening contractor capacity, and use of
bigger contracts (compared to average 2-3 km contracts now); and, institutional strengthening of
LGED and its wide network at local levels with a greater orientation towards community participation.
The review emphasizes greater selectivity in investments in keeping with priority needs, and much
greater emphasis on building and funding a sustainable maintenance system. The study has established
that rural infrastructure investments have produced significant impact and that "improved roads and
markets" are strongly correlated with higher agricultural production. A spatial analysis (presented in
the report) has demonstrated that past investment in rural roads and markets through the growth -center
based strategy has responded well to the regional location of demand for services, demonstrating that
the strategy has led to rational distribution of rural road investments.
1.46   The strategy study also estimates that larger investment than in the past decade and the current
annual level would be needed to meet essential needs of estimated demand for improved infrastructure.
Currently, Bangladesh spends about 5.5% of its development budget (based on foreign and local
resources) on rural roads and markets development (about 5.5 billion Taka; see Annex 1.3). The
strategy study notes that to achieve a modest target of meeting about 70% of the current infrastructure
improvement needs over the next 10 years, a total of Taka 63 billion would be needed (about US$1.5
billion in 1995 prices), indicating an annual development expenditure of about Taka 16.3 billion (about
US$155 million) for the next 10 years. In addition, maintenance cost will have to go up from the
present requirement of 1,300 million Taka to about 2,900 million Taka by year 2006.  Using
cumulative annual average maintenance for the next five years, these figures indicate an annual
resource requirement of about 8.1 billion Taka (6.3 billion Taka for development and 1.8 billion Taka



15
for average annual maintenance) over the next five years, followed by similar development and more
maintenance funding in the subsequent 5 years, for reaching the goal of improving 70% of the existing
network by year 2005. Resources available at present are about 6.8 billion annually (54% foreign,
46% domestic) (Annex 1.3). This underlines the need for raising more resources, particularly from
domestic resources.
1.47   GOB has accepted in principle the changes suggested above (para. 1.45) in future infrastructure
strategy, and the proposed project, in particular, is designed on the basis of the findings of the above
strategy review.
E. MAINTENANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY
1.48   To ensure sustainability of the rural infrastructure being improved, it is important to build up a
good maintenance system and a viable funding mechanism based on local resources, particularly, in
view of the increased maintenance needs estimated above (para. 1.45).   GOB has accepted this
principle and has recently allocated adequate funds for maintenance. The LGED has set up a national
maintenance system but this system needs to be made operationally more efficient, which is sought to
be done through the proposed project. Currently funds for maintenance of most rural roads and
highways come from domestic Government revenue and some UP revenue (the amount collected from
road users through fuel levies and other charges is estimated to be adequate to cover maintenance needs
of the total road network); only in the case of Rural roads (Rl, R2 and R3) the foreign-funded Food-
for-Work program funds part of maintenance through the Road Maintenance Program (RMP) funded
by Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA); this is a well-designed program targeting
destitute women as workers, and with participation of the UPs in road selection and in financial
contribution of minimum 10% of the maintenance costs (see para. 2.15) for maintenance allocations.
This foreign aid program which covers about 44% of total maintenance funding may be expected to
continue for some years as this is an effective poverty -reduction program and may therefore receive
priority in the aid programs for Bangladesh, one of the poorest countries in the world. During Credit
negotiations. assurance was obtained from Governrnent to match these funds from own or other
sources, if this RMP program is downsized or discontinued in future. It is important for sustainability
and ownership that the local government resources for maintenance should progressively increase; the
proposed project seeks to do this through measures to enhance the resource base of the UPs (see para.
1.35) and increased Government allocation for maintenance. Maintenance of markets is adequately
financed by direct user charges levied from market users (see para. 1.25), and a similar system would
be introduced also for the developed river jetties under the project. The ongoing use and promotion of
labor-intensive technology for maintenance with appropriate small equipment makes infrastructure
maintenance technology affordable and available in the rural areas, enhancing sustainability, in addition
to generating employment. Assurances on adequate maintenance funding and arrangements in the
project area and at the national level would be obtained during Credit negotiations. (See paras. 2.15,
2.16, and also Annex 2.8 on maintenance details).
F. IMPACT OF RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS DEVELOPMENT
1.49   A major study on the impact of rural infrastructure in Bangladesh was published in 19902.
This surveyed 129 villages which were classified as "developed" and "undeveloped" based on access to
transport, modern inputs, electricity and economic, social and administrative services, and were
2          R. Ahmed and M. Hossain. Developmental Impact of Rural Infrastructure, Bangladesh.
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in collaboration with Bangladesh Institute
of Development Studies (BIDS), 1990



16
comparable in all other respects. The study found that, comparing the two categories, the villages with
"developed" infrastructure were significantly better off as reflected in: higher farm agate prices for
produce, lower fertilizer prices paid, higher house-hold income, higher wage rates benefiting the poor,
and higher level of employment and income for the landless and the poor women.
1.50   Socio-economic monitoring and evaluation (SEM&E) studies carried out under different Rural
development Projects (RDP) implemented by LGED, including the IDA-supported RRMIMP-1,
provide consistent evidence that FRB road improvements:
(a)    generated a substantial increase in the total movement of people and goods: on
improved RRMIMP-1 roads the volume of both passenger and cargo traffic (in
passenger-km and ton-km) has increased by over 70% in the case of cargo and over
174% in the case of passenger traffic within a year of development;
(b)    reduced transport charges: on improved RRMIMP-1 roads unit transport charges for
goods and passengers have decreased by 63 % and 59% respectively (reflecting reduced
operating costs and shift to more efficient modal composition, such as reduced head-
porterage and bullock cart use);
(c)   resulted in a transfer to more efficient modes, with substantial growth  in vehicular
traffic - both non-motorized and motorized -- and a reduction in pedestrian and bullock
cart trips;
(d)   increased the number of both motorized and non-motorized vehicles by 165%  and
146% respectively; and increased the relative share of traffic volumes (tkm and pkm)
carried by motorized traffic: from 47 % share to 73 % share after road development in
the case of cargo, and from 22% to 47% in the case of passenger traffic;
(e)    stimulated the operation of bus services for the first time (except on short FRBs below
about 2 kIn) which bring many social benefits;
(f)   reduced the operating costs and transport charges of rickshaws and rickshaw-vans by
up to 60%, because of the provision of a smooth running surface; and
(g)    produced significant new employment for the poor through direct and indirect impacts.
1.51   The LGED SEM&E studies have also analyzed the impact of improving marketing facilities.
They show that, after improvement, the number of market visitors and the volume and value of goods
traded increases, losses due to spoilage decrease, the lease values (bid prices) of the markets rise, and
new shops and commercial activities start up around the markets, and land value of the areas near the
market increases significantly. The markets become more efficient, and busier and more active trading
and commercial centers.
1.52   Based on a partial analysis (that is, counting only easily quantifiable transport cost savings
from road improvements, and spoilage reduction due to market improvements, and ignoring the several
other economic and social benefits from increased access and mobility such as improved school, health
and banking facilities, and more employment creation particularly for the poor) completion studies
under RRMIMP-1 sub-projects show an average 22% (range 14 - 45%) economic rate of return (ERR)
from road projects, and about the same rate from markets, which shows the very high economic impact
of these investments. They also show major impact in creating employment (see para. 4.3).



17
1.53   The Rural Infrastructure Strategy study (see para. 1.45) also documents the significant
regionwide impact of road and market development on agricultural productivity. Another recent IDA-
sponsored study3 shows significant impact of rural infrastructure investment on non-farm production,
especially trade and services. Another recent IDA-sponsored study shows significant impact of rural
infrastructure investment on on-farm employment. Since SEME impact studies have been focused
mainly on traffic impact and partial benefits, the proposed project would finance a fuller study of the
impact of the road and market investments on poverty, income levels, and agricultural productivity
based on more comprehensive data collection including house-hold surveys and analysis, which should
help guide the massive investments needed in the sector. (Annex 1.4 gives more details on past impact
studies).
G. IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR: LESSONS
1.54   IDA's first major investment in Bangladesh in rural infrastructure development (apart from
infrastructure components in other projects), has been in financing the Rural Roads and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance Project (RRMIMP-1, approved in 1988 with an IDA credit of SDR
45.0 million with cofinancing from KfW and SDC) implemented by LGED, and aimed at improving
rural infrastructure conditions in Districts of the Northwest region, and at institutional strengthening of
LGED. The project comprises the improvement of 500 km of FRB roads to bitumen-surfaced
standard; tree plantation on the sides of the roads; construction of improved public facilities - internal
roads, paved areas, raised and covered selling areas, drainage, potable water supply and latrines - at 65
growth center markets; construction of 4,000 meters of structures on Rural Roads; maintenance of the
inproved roads; and institutional development activities including construction of a new LGED
headquarters building, construction of LGED District offices and laboratories, training, contractor
development, and socio-economic monitoring and evaluation. It also included rehabilitation works
following major floods in 1988. In view of the need to evolve new systems, standards, procedures and
local capacity of LGED, contractors and consultants in planning and implementing rural infrastructure
projects on a sustainable basis, this project was designed and approved as an experimental project in its
early phase, with an implementation period of 8 years. The project faced initial delays in appointing
supervision consultants and disruptions caused by two major floods in the project area, but is now
making excellent progress, has issued all contracts for works, and is expected to complete in June
1997, fully achieving all its physical and most of its institutional objectives, within the original cost
estimates. The project investments have also made significant economic impact in removing rural
mobility and marketing constraints, and shown high economic returns from completed components (see
para. 1.49). The project has been very successful in establishing good quality standards for road
construction with local materials and expertise through trial prograrns, which are now being replicated
nationally, and also in enhancing capacity of LGED and local consultants and contractors. Some
lessons from the experience of this project are: (a) starting bidding processes before project start, and
appointing supervision consultants before Credit approval so as to avoid delays, (b) more local
community participation in priority setting, design and implementation, (c) greater emphasis on rural
road structures, (d) emphasis on river jetties to better integrate inland water transport and road
transport, (e) continued training and equipment support to small contractors but at the same time
supporting increase in contract sizes to enhance contractor output and efficiency (f) early action on land
acquisition with suitable compensation procedures, (h) greater emphasis on field-level training and
implementation of maintenance programs, (i) overhauling rural market management and leasing
systems with greater user participation to improve efficiency and increase revenue and (j) strengthening
the financial status of local bodies (Union Parishads) in ensuring sustainability of infrastructure
3   Khandker, Shahidur R. 1995 'Bangladesh: Rural Non-Farm Growth and Targeted Credit Interventions".
(Memo. The World Bank, Washington. D.C.).



18
maintenance.  These lessons from  the ongoing project and other RDPs have been carefully
incorporated in designing the proposed larger RRMIMP-2, which is designed with a shorter
implementation period of five years since the experimental phase is considered over and much more
prior preparation has been done before start of the project, and LGED has now proven capacity to
implement projects more expeditiously.
1.55  IDA's experience as reflected in the Operations Evaluation Department's (OED's) reports of
similar "regional" rural road projects have shown that they would achieve their developmental
objectives with greater impact only if the project components also include improving national standards
in maintenance, design and planning, and promotion of network-wide maintenance. This has been
taken into account in designing the proposed project by supporting the implementation of an effective
maintenance program in the project area to be replicated nationally and by requiring allocation of
adequate maintenance funds for the national rural road network and designation of maintenance
engineers in LGED's field offices. (see para. 2.16 and 2.17).
1.56  In the overall transport sector, IDA has funded eight projects so far, of which three have been
completed and five are on going. The completed projects are - two highway projects, and one port
project. The road projects faced implementation problems which were resolved, and their Completion
report (1989) highlighted lessons for future action (such as preparation of road master plans for
prioritizing rehabilitation and maintenance, better maintenance systems, improved contracting
procedures, and contractor strengthening) which have been incorporated into the subsequent projects.
The port project was very successful and its Completion Report (1993) highlighted the need for timely
funding of equipment along with berth facilities, and greater emphasis on container facilities; these
lessons are being taken into account in the ongoing port sector studies and port project preparation,
with emphasis on private sector provision of equipment, other facilities and operations. The five
ongoing projects are: (i) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP-1 approved in 1987,
with IDA credit of SDR 78.1 million, with cofinancing from OPEC Fund), which will complete in
December 1996, (ii) and RRMP-2 (approved in 1994 with IDA credit of SDR 103.9 million, with
cofinancing from the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA); both these projects focus
on the physical rehabilitation and maintenance needs, and on planning and maintenance systems, and
institutional support, for the national and regional roads managed by RHD (as distinct from rural roads
managed by LGED); (iii) the RRMIMP-1 project for rural roads and markets, already discussed in the
previous paragraph; (iv) the Inland Water Transport Project for which IDA credit of SDR 31.3 million
was approved in 1991; and (v) the Jamuna Bridge Project for which IDA credit of SDR 143.6 million
was approved in 1994, with cofinancing from ADB and OECF. The IWT project faced many initial
problems due to delays in starting important institutional reform studies, which have later been
resolved. All ongoing projects are progressing satisfactorily. IDA has also been involved as executing
agency for a UNDP-funded study on transport sector planning and strategy, which was completed in
1995; Government has accepted its recommendations for follow-up.



19
2. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND CONCEPT
2.1    At the Mid-Term Review of the RRMIMP-1 project in May 1992 it was agreed to prepare a
new rural infrastructure Improvement project as a follow-up to continue similar programs. The concept
of the proposed project has been developed during the course of the ongoing project and of IDA's
review of the GOB rural infrastructure strategy, which highlights continued need to invest on
improving rural infrastructure. GOB's and IDA's review of agriculture strategy also emphasizes rural
infrastructure improvements as a priority. Much has been learnt from the experience of the RRMIMP- 1
(see para. 1.53), and from the simultaneous SDC-financed rural development project (RDP-6) in
Manikganj District of Greater Dhaka, and also from other RDPs. During the period of implementation
of these projects the LGED has grown and evolved rapidly as an effective, rural infrastructure
development institution.
2.2    The proposed RRMIMP-2 project will be co-financed with the SDC and will include additional
physical works in the Northwest Region but with greater emphasis on works in the contiguous Greater
Dhaka Area where there has been only limited rural infrastructure investment to date. As noted,
individual projects under RDP series focus on infrastructure needs of particular regions, funded by
different agencies, well coordinated by LGED. The project area for RRMIMP-2 was selected for the
following reasons: (a) continuity with on-going IDA and SDC work; (b) relatively higher poverty
level; (c) absence of any previous RDP in the Greater Dhaka Area (except in one District); and (d)
poor infrastructure conditions in the whole project area.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.3    The overall development objective of the proposed project is to help increase rural employment
and incomes and reduce rural poverty by establishing an improved, sustainable rural transport and
trading infrastructure. More specifically, the project objectives would be to:
(a)    help remove physical bottlenecks, improve quality, and reduce costs in rural transport
and marketing;
(b)    create employment and income-generating opportunities among the rural poor, and
particularly for disadvantaged women;
(c)    promote participation of local communities and NGOs in project activities; and
(d)   increase institutional capacity for efficient rural infrastructure management, including
maintenance;
2.4   Performance indicators for monitoring progress in achieving the project objectives are given in
Annex 3.7.
C. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.5    The project would support GOB's and IDA's overall strategy to increase agricultural
production and rural incomes, and to reduce poverty through removing rural infrastructure constraints.
IDA's Strategy for the Transport Sector and rural infrastructure in Bangladesh follows the 1995



20
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by IDA Board in September 1995, which emphasized
improving physical infrastructure, their maintenance, and related services, as they are critical for both
international competitiveness of exports and the growth of agriculture and rural incomes. It also
emphasized, for rural infrastructure, encouraging greater participation by local communities, increasing
resource mobilization, adopting national standards, and strengthening local contractors.  CAS also
stresses labor-intensive growth, and special measures for poverty-alleviation. The proposed RRMIMP-
2, which relies on appropriate labor-intensive technology for most civil works with special provisions
for employing the poor, and which gives high priority for improving rural infrastructure and
community involvement is fully consistent with the CAS.
2.6    The ongoing project, RRMIMP-1, has set many good, new standards in rural road design
specifications and maintenance; it is important to provide continuity by replicating them in other areas
and by building on institutional and policy gains already achieved through the first project so as to
keep the momentum  of progress in rural development going at an accelerated pace.  IDA's
involvement, which is much appreciated by the Government and other donors, will provide such
continuity.  IDA support is needed also to: (a) encourage appropriate technology, cost-effective
standards; and sustainable maintenance systems, (b) attract cofinancing support; and (c) help implement
the findings of the IDA/GOB rural infrastructure study.
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Components
2.7    The main components of the project are:
(i)    improvement and upgrading of about 575 km of feeder roads Type B (FRBs) in
the Project Area (14 districts in the Northwest and Greater Dhaka areas, see
para. 2.9), with small bridges, culverts and tree planting alongside the roads.
It also includes bridges and culverts on other FRB roads not selected for full
improvement, and road safety improvements;
(ii)   establishment and  implementation  of a planned  routine  and  periodic
maintenance system for the LGED road network in the project area covering
all FRB roads, important RR1 roads, and structures on rural roads for
replication nationally in the following years;
(iii)   construction of about 6000 culverts and small bridges (about 31,600 linear
meters) of drainage structures on existing rural roads (mainly RR1 & RR2)
(Nationwide), together with ancillary earthworks, which will fill existing gaps
on about 10,500 km of rural roads and make them passable year-round, and
also correct drainage problems created by existing rural roads; this component
will particularly emphasize local participation, use of labor-intensive
technologies, and employment of landless poor and disadvantaged women;
(iv)   improvement of rural markets (i.e., raised and covered sales platforms,
walkways, drainage, potable water supply, sanitation) in about 136 growth
center markets in the project area, and improvement of about 14 UP center
markets in the project area;
(v)    rehabilitation/construction of 41 priority river jetties, or river 'ghats', in the
project area, to improve landing/unloading facilities for country boats;



21
(vi)   pilot program to improve safety and efficiency of NMT, particularly rickshaw
vans and passenger rickshaws, which are extensively used in the country in the
movement of goods and passengers in rural areas, with participation of
appropriate NGOs;
(vii)  supply of equipment for road construction and maintenance, of vehicles for
supervision of works, and of office and training equipment;
(viii)  institutional and human resources development for increasing and strengthening
managerial and technical capacity of LGED, local Government agencies, and
the local construction industry, including support for fiscal and technical
audits; and;
(ix)   implementation support including  technical assistance  for the  design,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of annual work programs, and support
for a follow-up rural infrastructure project preparation.
2.8   The additional features in this project compared to the first are: addition of river transport and
integration of rural transport; support for improving non-motorized transport; more community
participation, raising more local resources and more emphasis on rural drainage structures on existing
rural roads; and greater emphasis on maintenance, and on adoption of national standards in
construction and maintenance.  The proposed project, in design and concept, will provide the
cornerstone for a new generation of road transport and infrastructure projects; it will build on
experience and lessons learned from the ongoing RRMIMP-1, and will complement and reinforce its
achievements.
Project Area
2.9   The project area (Map IBRD No. 27808) covers 14 Districts of Bangladesh (out of total 64)
comprising: (a) six Districts of Greater Dhaka Area (Map IBRD No.27727) - Manikganj, Munshiganj,
Narayanganj, Gazipur, Narshingdi and Dhaka Districts - of which only Manikganj District has
benefited from other RDPs; and (b) eight districts of the Northwest Region (Map IBRD No. 27726) -
Rajshahi, Naogaon, Natore, Nawabganj, Pabna, Sirajganj, Bogra and Joypurhat Districts - which
already benefit from the ongoing RRMIMP-1 in the Northwest Region. The Northwest Area has 64
Thanas and 608 Union Parishads (UPs), and the Greater Dhaka Area has 33 Thanas and 361 UPs. In
addition, the rural structure component (25 % of the project cost) covers all UPs in the whole country.
2.10   The project area covers about 25,000 sq. km and has a population of about 22 million people
within this area. The Northwest Area is larger (72% of the land area) but less densely populated (62%
of the population) than the Greater Dhaka Area. The construction of the Jamuna Multi-Purpose Bridge
will significantly improve communications between the Northwest Region and the rest of the country,
and create opportunities for economic development. The rural road network in the project area
comprises about 3200 km of FRB, and 29,800 km of rural roads (9,450 km of RR1, 10,150 km of R2
and 10,200 km of R3), and there is a total of 425 growth center markets. By mid-1997, when the
RRMIMP-1 and the SDC financed RDP-6 (which covers Manikganj) projects end, about 31 % of the
FRB network (39% in the Northwest Region and 14% in the Greater Dhaka Area) will be in good,
bitumen-surfaced condition, and 18% of the growth center Markets (25% in the Northwest Region,
6% in the Greater Dhaka Area) will have been improved. Even after the completion of the proposed
project, the total coverage of rural infrastructure improvement needs in these 14 districts will be about
50-60%.



22
Detailed Features
(a)   Improvement and Upgrading Feeder Roads B: (Base cost US$58.60 million)
2.11   Many FRBs in the project area are earthen embankments - most of them constructed under
food for work programs but without mechanical compaction - often with unspanned 'gaps' across
rivers and flood land. Some FRBs have been paved with Herring Bone Bond brick (HBB) but often
without full compaction of the embankment resulting in a rough riding surface, and a few sections have
been given a bituminous seal. The project would improve and upgrade about 574 km FRB roads (312
km in the Greater Dhaka Area and 262 km are in the Northwest Region on about 69 roads in all),
including construction of 1915 metres of bridges and culverts, to provide all-weather road access to
serve rural growth center markets. In addition to the full improvement and upgrading of FRB roads to
bitumen-surfaced standards (including all necessary structures), the project includes a sub-component
'construction of structures on other FRB roads'. This reflects the need to bridge existing gaps and
replace damaged structures on some of the other FRBs not selected for full upgrading in order to
extend the mobility on the FRB road network in the project area. This would comprise construction
of about 1,750 linear meters of small bridges and structures; two-third of these, will be in the more
riverine Greater Dhaka Area. The project would include provision for improved road safety.
2.12   The FRB roads and structures have been selected using a participatory approach involving
consultation with local bodies - UPs, TDCCs and NGOs - to derive a short-list of roads based on local
priorities, which were then subjected to economic appraisal. All selected roads have an EIRR greater
than 12%. Structures larger than 30 linear meter span will be subjected to economic appraisal before
bidding. The selection procedures and criteria, and implementation procedures and time-frame, using
active involvement of beneficiaries, based on specially designed participatory processes (para 3.1) for
proposed physical investment schemes under various project components are given in Annex 2. 1; these
criteria, procedures and pro grams were agreed during negotiations. Most FRB roads and FRB
structures have been selected; if changes are needed they will follow the agreed selection criteria, and
the changes will be reviewed during mid-term review. The list of proposed FRB roads, markets and
river jetties, is given in Annex 2.2; this was confirmed during negotiations.
2.13   The proposed FRB design standards (PID-3) are based on  the design standards of ongoing
RRMIMP-1, with refinements made in the light of experience for various RDPs and trials. The
pavement structure will comprise an improved sub-grade, coarse aggregate (brick) sub-base and water
bound macadam (WBM) base course using brick aggregate, and a 25 mm bituminous carpeting (BC)
surface. In specific circumstances where the traffic level on FRB is high, the thickness of BC will be
increased to 40 mm provided if it is economically justified, and where the traffic level on FRB is low,
the thickness of the BC will be reduced to 15 mm. The surfacing specification of providing 25 mm BC
under normal traffic conditions, is based on a studies carried out by LGED and the consultants, on the
performance of several trial sections of different specifications observed during the implementation
phase of various RDPs. Furthermore the design of 25 mm BC for surface treatment on FRBs, has
been determined from the extensive discussions held between the experts of IDAISDC and LGED in
the context of all economical and technical implications involved in the selection of pavement
thickness. A special factor to take into account in the context of Bangladesh is the fact that the broken
bricks (used for surfacing in lieu of natural laterite stones due to non-availability of the latter) lacks
plasticity to bond; such paving eliminates the risk of these surfacing materials being washed away in
the heavy rains common in Bangladesh, thus giving longer life and lesser maintenance costs. It also
significantly reduces the roughness of the surface, allowing the predominant cycle-rickshaws (human-
pedaled) easy ridability; transport cost savings justified the additional cost on paving of these important
roads. The project includes the construction of trial sections in order to promote the use of possible
bitumen emulsions, which if successful can prove to be highly cost-effective in the construction of



23
rural roads. The base course will be extended 600 mm on either side of the carriageway to provide a
hard shoulder on both sides. This hard shoulder will protect the earth shoulder from damage during
rains, and will also improve safety particularly under the prevailing conditions where the traffic is mix
of motorized and non-motorized.
2.14   Groups of disadvantaged women will be contracted to plant and take care of the trees alongside
FRB roads and to carry out routine maintenance of the embankment slopes and earth shoulders, thus
creating long-term employment. Based on GOB policy, ownership of the trees will be arranged so that
the income they generate provides revenue for the UPs and gives benefits to the destitute women
caretakers. The project will also finance the construction of a new LGED District
office/laboratory/workshop facility in Dhaka District (which is the one project district where LGED
does not yet have such a facility) and improvement of existing facilities in other Districts.  The
technical standards and unit cost for various road construction activities are given in PID-3.
(b)    Road Maintenance: (Base cost US$10.76 million)
2.15   The project attaches great importance to building an adequate maintenance management system
in the country, based on best practice and techniques. LGED received its first GOB annual revenue
budget for maintenance in FY 1992/93, and the budget has increased progressively since then - Taka
300 million (US$7.5 million) in 1992/93, Taka 400 million (US$10.0 million) in 1993/94, Taka 550
million (US$13.8 million) in 1994/95 and Taka 650 million (US$16.3 million) in 1995/96. A Rural
Infrastructure Maintenance Cell (RIMC) was established within LGED in 1992, and since then it has
made considerable progress in establishing the framework for road maintenance by setting up a road
inventory system, introducing national maintenance guidelines and establishing a training program.
However actual maintenance works in the field is still inadequate in many respects and need
improvements. The other main source for funding maintenance of rural roads is the CIDA/CARE
Road Maintenance Program (RMP), which is designed as a poverty-alleviation program for destitute
women.  To complement and support its efforts for setting up an effective, planned periodic
maintenance system, the project would provide 50% of the periodic maintenance costs in the project
area on a declining percentage basis over the implementation period, starting 80% in the first three
years and decreasing to 30% in the last two years. The project would finance: (a) TA for setting up
and designing an effective and efficient management system in the project area, which would be part of
the DSM consultant services (para. 2.38); and (b) provide partial funding of periodic maintenance in
the project area. This assistance would be provided in coordination with RIMC's program and other
ADB financed inputs for maintenance strengthening.
2.16   Tables 3 and 4 in the Annex 2.8 provides an estimate of the needs and costs (including unit
cost) of routine and periodic maintenance within the project area over the project period.  These
figures will be used for preparing annual maintenance plans and budgets (see para. 2.17). These
amounts will be revised by mutual agreement in the light of further studies planned to be carried out
during project implementation.
2.17   The project also attaches significant importance to the routine and periodic maintenance of the
national rural road network. RIMC is taking leadership in improving national maintenance strategy.
The recently prepared GOB rural infrastructure strategy paper has projected that the country will need
an annual recurrent cost (annualized routine and periodic maintenance costs) of about US$33 million
equivalent in 1995-96, increasing to about US$73 million annually in ten years as the road network is
upgraded requiring more maintenance (See Annex 1.4). Although GOB has increased its maintenance
budget allocations substantially in the current year 1995/96 to US$16.3 million to meet full current
needs compared with the allocations made in previous years (para. 2.15), it will need to make increases
in this amount in future as maintenance capability increases. The estimated maintenance needs for



24
1995-96 are being fully met from various sources, including Government budget allocation for
maintenance, UP contributions, some project inputs and the food-aid-supported Road Maintenance
Program (RMP) funded by Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) (about US$11 million
for 1996-97), which is a well-designed project targeting income generation for destitute women by
involving them and UPs in a very effective and participatory rural road maintenance program. Based
on some projection of continued UP and other project contributions (see Annex 1.4), and assuming the
continuation of the RMP program, it has been estimated that Government's budget allocation for rural
road maintenance will have to increase as a minimum to about US$21 million in 1997-98 and US$31
million in 2001-02. To get assurance of meeting full maintenance funding, agreement was obtained
during negotiations that the GOB would provide adequate fundinig for meeting full routine and periodic
maintenance costs for all maintainable FRBs. RRs and structures during the project period, and for this
purpose would increase its budget allocation for rural road maintenance to US$21 million in 1997-98,
and thereafter annually increase it by US$2.5 million up to the year 2001-02. It will also be agreed
that in case the RMP program, which currently provides about US$11 million equivalent for rural
infrastructure maintenance, is downsized or discontinued, the Government would provide additional
budget allocation or ensure other funding to continue similar program and to make up for the resulting
reduction in maintenance funding. These amounts will be revised by mutual agreement in the light of
further studies planned to be carried out during project implementation. In addition, the poor rural
roads which are not in a maintainable condition due to prolonged deterioration, are in the immediate
need of rehabilitation. At present there is no separate line for rehabilitation works under LGED's
budget system. It is therefore necessary that the GOB and LGED should include separate allocation
for rehabilitation until the roads are improved and placed under a sustainable maintenance program.
2.18   Agreement was reached during negotiations that LGED would agree with IDA before June 30
of each year annual maintenance program for the project area for the following fiscal year; the
program for 1996-97 would be provided by January 31, 1997. The annual maintenance program would
include the estimated funding requirements for routine and periodic maintenance separately for FRB,
RRs, and structures for the project area. In order to carry out maintenance operations more effectively
and efficiently in the field, agreement was reached during negotiations that LGED would designate a
maintenance engineer in each district and thana by March 31. 1997. In addition, as part of agreed
implementation procedures (para. 2.12 and Annex 2.1), LGED would promote greater community
participation in road maintenance, and for this purpose would, in consultation with IDA, pilot greater
community involvement in maintenance in two districts, starting not later than June 30, 1998. LGED
would also set up District-level road user committees in the project area (para. 3.2).
(c)    Construction of Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Base cost US$55.08 million)
2.19   This component, which is national in scope and not limited to the 14 districts, would assist
through participatory process, to fill large number of gaps existing in the rural road network and will
help local communities in removing a major constraint they face in rural transport; it will also help to
build new drainage structures where existing roads block cross-drainage. In Bangladesh, there are
about 40,000 gaps (200,000 linear meters), yet to be bridged on its rural road network, which make
the roads fragmented and less effective for all-weather mobility. Since the central government has to
focus on FRB improvements costing over US$1.5 billion over the next 10 years, the only solution
would be for the UP's to raise own resources and take on their own initiative to fill these road gaps.
These gaps force closure of roads in rainy season, and block smooth flow of traffic in fair season. The
structures are good investments in reducing transport costs and mobility constraints in the rural areas
and reducing waterlogging in farms.  Because it involves a large number of small, dispersed
investments where priorities are best defined locally, the SRR component provides the opportunity to
encourage the participation of communities, local bodies and other interest groups in planning,
decision-making and implementation. Field interviews show that there is enthusiasm among UP



25
Chairmen to participate in this program. All the participatory aspects of the component are detailed in
Annexes 2.1 and 2.3. This component, through participatory process, community ownership, and
initial deposit by UPs to signal (para 2.22) their commitment, will start a new culture in the planning,
development and maintenance of transportation infrastructure in the rural areas.
2.20   On the 16,000 km of RRI and RR2 roads in the main project area there are estimated to be
5,600 unspanned gaps with a total length of about 30,000 linear meters, and a further 3,400 existing
structures, with a total length of about 14,000 linear meters, which are in poor or damaged condition
and require replacement or repair. This equates to more than one gap or damaged structure for every
1.75 km of Rural Road. The project will finance the construction of about 6,000 structures (31,600
linear meters) on RRs all over the country - primarily pipe and slab culverts and small bridges - to
span gaps and replace damaged structures, together with ancillary earthworks. It will also finance new
structures where existing road embankments block drainage between farm areas. This will make about
10,500 km of seasonal rural roads into all-weather roads, thus enhancing the value of existing
investments (one structure of US$8,000 releasing full economic use of about U$50,000 worth of
investment on 1.75 km roads).  The annual construction program, and its geographic scope, is
presented in PID-2. It is expected that some of the structures will be built on R3 roads subject to UP's
preferences.
2.21   An amount of about US$55.08 million as base cost, is allocated for this component, of which
US$47.70 million equivalent is for drainage structures (culverts and small bridges not exceeding 20 m
length) on rural roads, and about US$7.38 million equivalent for ancillary earth works on rural roads
(as approaches to the structures or elsewhere on the rural roads).  As an indicative figure (not
restrictive), the average length (span) of culvert is likely to be 5 meters, at a cost of about US$8,000
equivalent. All UPs will be allowed to participate on a first-come-first-served basis, according to the
date of registration. The participating UP has to deposit an initial Taka 10,000 (US$250) into LGED
SRR account for registration, and indicate the location for the structures. After registration, LGED will
inspect the selected site and make drawings and estimates and discuss with the UP choices of types and cost
estimates. Technical standards for structures were developed under RRMIMP-1 and would be further
improved as indicator in PID-3. Before award of contract, the UP must deposit the remaining contribution
(above the initial deposit) to LGED's SRR account. UP's total contribution will be 10% of total costs
during the first three years of the project and 20% during the last two years of the project. After selection
of site and design by the UP, LGED Thana Engineer through the TDCC Tender Committees, will invite
bids from small contractors and eligible labor contracting societies (LCS)/Labor Groups, and select lowest
evaluated bidder following usual procedures acceptable to IDA.  Earthworks outside the structure
approaches will be awarded to LCSs/labor groups of poor women/landless laborers based on negotiated
contracts and unit rates under procedures acceptable to IDA. These selection criteria and processes are
listed in Annex 2.1.
2.22   The construction of SRR will be a continual process and the sites will be selected by UPs
through a participatory process involving two stages (see para. 3.1 and Annex 2.3) and in accordance
with the agreed selection criteria given in Annex 2.1. In addition, each participating UP should
undertake to provide: (a) regular maintenance of structures after its completion; (b) monitoring data
relating to funding resources, length passable, traffic growth and employment of the poor. The
implementation procedures agreed (para. 2.12) require that UPs should conform to the following and
other criteria/procedures given in Annex 2. 1: (a) site selection criteria agreed for the construction of
SRR; (b) initial deposit of Taka 10,000 into the LGED SRR account for registration; (c) deposit of
total UP's contribution before inviting bids; (d) sustainable maintenance program for the completed
structures, and (e) provide agreed data for  monitoring project success and evaluation of its
development impact on the rural economy. LGED will undertake to provide the completed structure
within one year of registration by UP; this guarantee will apply only to the first 1500 structures



26
registered for each year, because of possible capacity limitations, and further there may also be a limit
on the total number of structures per UP.
(d)   Improvement of Rural Markets: (Base cost US$10.69 million)
2.23   Growth center markets are focal points for the sale and processing of rural produce, for the
distribution of agricultural inputs and consumer goods imported into rural areas, and for other
economic and social activities. Unimproved markets are congested, unhygienic, dusty in the dry and
muddy in the wet - a problem compounded by the fact that many markets are low-lying, close to rivers
and not free-draining. Many markets trade in meat and fish, but without adequate facilities for
hygienic operations. The project would finance basic infrastructure and improved common facilities at
136 growth center markets, 67 in the Greater Dhaka Area and 69 in the Northwest Region. The main
improvements would include covered sheds for the sale of perishable goods, slaughter slabs, sales
platform, internal roads and walkways within the market areas and connecting with the main feeder
roads serving the market area, drains, latrines, garbage pits, provision of parking space and an office
for market administration. Production of bio-gas from garbage pits will be tried on a pilot basis. The
project would also include improvement of about 14 other rural markets - one in each project district -
to be developed as model UP market centers with improved transport terminal facilities and access.
2.24   Priority has also been given to integrating road, inland water transport, and market
improvements in order to enhance the efficient operation of the rural transport and trading network.
The selection procedure, and criteria  for markets are given in Annex 2.1, and the list of selected
markets and is given in Annex 2.2. The design standards and costs for market improvements are
detailed in PID-4. The 'Users Input' participatory approach will be applied to the detailed design of the
markets, which will involve market vendors and other users in design. The user participation in
selection and detailed design will develop a sense of local ownership of the improved markets.
Additional participatory measures will be adopted to improve the operation of the markets. The UPs
will contribute 10% of investment costs. The project will assist and support the formation of Market
Management Committees, and will provide them with training and assistance in planning and managing
the operation and maintenance of the improved markets. Maintenance will be financed from the lease
revenue of improved markets which is allocated for this purpose and which is considered generally
adequate (see para. 1.24).  According to the implementation procedures agreed (para. 2.12),
LGED/UPs will use participatory processes, involving market vendors, to improve the structure and
operation of the existing Market Management Conmmittees, and to improve market leasing processes to
enhance revenue.
(e)    Rehabilitation/Construction of River Jetties (Ghats): (Base cost US$2. 00 million)
2.25   Inland water transport (IWT) through country boats remains important for the rural movement
of people and goods. The project will provide improved facilities for the safe, dry, loading and
unloading of cargo and people at 41 rural river ghats, 14 in the Northwest Region and 27 in the
Greater Dhaka Area which is more riverine. This will increase the efficiency of loading/unloading,
increase the role of IWT, reduce transport costs, and will reduce the accidents, injuries and losses that
presently occur during this process and will provide a healthy environment.  This component
emphasizes local participation in selection, detailed design and operation of the improved ghats, using
the same methodology as for the growth center markets. The ghats to be improved have been selected
by the same procedure as for the markets, and the UPs will contribute 10% of the costs of
improvement. Attention has also been given to integrating ghat improvements with the improved FRB
and market network. The selection procedures and criteria are given in Annex 2.1, the list of ghats in
Annex 2.2, and their annual construction program is given in PID-5.



27
2.26   The ghat improvements will consist of 'river-bank' facilities for safe loading and unloading and
for mooring, and 'on-land' facilities comprising a paved area with drainage, footpaths, a passenger
shed, clean water supply, sanitary latrines, garbage bins, a small administration office and an internal
access road to connect the ghat to the nearby FRB or main road. The aim is to provide low-cost but
effective river-bank facilities, and design standards will be evolved as the project develops practical
experience of designing for different conditions. Most of the ghats selected for improvement serve
Growth center markets, and their improvement will contribute to the integration of the water/road
transport and trading network. Ghat users and boat operators will participate in the detailed design of
the ghats, through application of the Users Input approach. Details of ghat designs and costs are in
PID-5. All ghats construction works will be on public land, and all improved ghats will be operated
through competitive leasing.   Measures will be adopted to establish effective operation and
maintenance of the ghats by the ghat management committees, using the same participatory procedures
as for the markets component. Involvement of country boat operators/owners associations, one of the
main user groups of ghats, in the management of the ghats will be emphasized. It was agreed as part of
implementation procedures (para. 2.12) that GOB will: (a) cause ghat management committee to be
established for all developed ghats before completion of each ghat improvement, modeled on the
market management committees; (b) ensure that operation of these ghats and markets will have
adequate user participation.
(f)    Pilot Program to Improve Non-Motorized Transport (NMT): (Base cost US$0.96 million)
2.27   NMT (rickshaw-vans, cycle-rickshaws, bicycles and bullock carts) play a very important role
in rural transport system in Bangladesh (see para. 1.15). The project includes a pilot component for
promoting safety and design improvements in rickshaw and rickshaw-vans (which carry more than
50%  of rural road traffic) and bullock-cart wheels (which damage road pavement).  This pilot
component will focus on the development and introduction of improvements in the design of rickshaw
vans, cycle rickshaws and bullock carts on making trial runs through user-groups to further improve
designs through their feedback; and on measures to stimulate the provision of credit for the purchase of
the improved designs. While there have previous efforts to improve designs, they were not supported
by adequate field trials and promotion.   The component, if successful, will increase the
competitiveness and service level of rickshaw vans and passenger rickshaws by improving their
performance, cost-efficiency, safety and load carrying capability, and will sustain and increase income-
generation for the rural poor from rickshaw pulling, it will also reduce the efforts and hardship
involved in rickshaw driving. The component will also help increase the efficiency and reduce the
damage caused to improved roads by, bullock carts.
2.28   The pilot component will adopt a participatory approach to technical innovation. It will be
implemented through experienced local NGOs and vehicle users, and can potentially make a major
impact on rural transport in the long run. The approach will be to develop specific improvements to
the design of cycle rickshaws and rickshaw-vans - e.g. bodies, braking and gear systems - which can
be fitted to the existing rickshaws as well as incorporated into new vehicles. For bullock carts the
emphasis will be on introducing wheel/axle assemblies using rubber tires. The improved designs will
be disseminated through promotion, demonstration and training, in collaboration with the Bangladesh
National Working Group of the International Forum for Rural Transport and Development (IFRTD,
and other local NGOs and community groups. This will develop an informed network of organizations,
including credit-financing NGO agencies, to assist the dissemination of the improved designs and to
encourage the provision of loans for the purchase of the improved designs by the rural poor. The
project will also provide for the mobility need assessments related to the improvement and operation of
NMT. The design, strategy, related issues, implementation program and cost estimate for the
proposed pilot NMT component are described in more detail in Annex 2.4.



28
(g)    Equipment: (Base cost US$7.27 million)
2.29   The project will provide: (a) Construction equipment mainly for compaction and concreting to
complement existing LGED equipment stocks in the project area; (b) laboratory and field testing
equipment for the five project Districts in the Greater Dhaka Area that do not have these facilities, and
a limited provision to upgrade the existing laboratories in the other nine project Districts in the
Northwest Region; (c) supervision vehicles to complement the existing LGED fleet; (d) office and
training equipment for project implementation; and (e) the urgently needed MIS related accessories.
The equipment to be provided under the project is listed in Annex 2.5.
2.30   The project will help develop, and introduce in the project area, through design improvements,
innovative items of low-cost, appropriate, locally made equipment to improve the quality and
efficiency of construction and maintenance activities. Examples are: (a) temperature-controlled bitumen
heater, temperature-controlled aggregate heater, drum mixer and trolley - to improve the quality and
efficiency of production and laying of batched quantities of BC; (b) bitumen sprayer for use with both
hot bitumen and bitumen emulsion; (c) a mobile bitumen trolley to carry one drum of emulsion and
with a hand pumped spray lance; (d) a manually propelled compaction roller to improve compaction
for ancillary earthworks on Rural Roads.
2.31   The equipment produced under the project will ensure the timely completion of project because
the small local contractors do not have their own equipment and largely depend on LGED equipment
fleet. LGED fleet is not sufficient to meet the project requirements. The existing scale of rental
charges for LGED equipment is not sufficient to recover their operating and replacement costs, though
they are adequate to recover operating and original investment costs. In order to avoid low LGED rent
rates, discouraging the contractors in buying their own equipment, and to encourage the private sector
to enter the equipment rental market, agreement was reached during negotiations that GOB would: (a)
ensure that charges for renting such equipment are sufficient to cover the maintenance and replacement
costs of such equipment. and (b) make available to LGED annually, through budget allocations into a
separate identifiable 'item' in LGED's budget, for maintenance and replacement costs of such
equipment, funds equivalent to the estimated rent collections for the following financial year. To
promote labor based methods and encourage local contractor to have their own equipment, project
would help promote use of low-cost locally produced equipment (para. 2.30), and also provide
mobilization advance to contractors to help purchase of own equipment. To ensure adequate quality
control in the execution of civil works the project would also finance urgently needed laboratory and
testing equipment. The DSM consultants would provide technical assistance to LGED to set up an
efficient equipment management system.
(h) Institutional and Human Resource Development: (Base cost US$3.54 million)
2.32   Technical Assistance (Capacity Building): The project will provide Technical assistance to
strengthen the institutional capacity and capability of LGED, local government bodies and the private
sector contracting industry. The main focus would be on training district and thana level staff in: (a)
supervision, quality control and financial and reporting procedures; (b) maintenance planning and
management; (c) implementation procedures for the SRR component; (d) the methodologies and
procedures for enhancing local community and beneficiary participation with an emphasis on
information sharing and "Users Input" approaches in the selection, design, operation and maintenance
of investment schemes, and in (e) improving maintenance systems. The project will also develop the
capability of local contractors through training in technical and management aspects of contracting,
prompt payment of bills, progressive introduction of larger construction contracts, and measures to
encourage contractor-ownership of construction equipment.  It will also support NGOs active in
improving the country boats operations in the informal sector, in extending information-sharing, safety



29
education and training. The experience gained in Socio-economic monitoring and evaluation (SEM&E)
of the project effects under RRMIMP-1, would be further harmonized in order to develop better rural
investment planning and policy making. Technical assistance will be provided through consultants
(local and foreign) as part of Design, Supervision and Monitoring (DSM) consultants, and as additional
specialists, and through training programs (internal and external). Further details are given in Annex
2.6. The training program will be reviewed during negotiations, which will be subjected to annual
review before March 31 each year.
2.33   The project will support LGED efforts in its capacity building, and based on the MANCAPS
recommendations (para. 1.42), the project would finance seven incremental high level staff positions
given in (Annex 1.2), which have been found necessary to implement project activities and will form
part of LGED's subsequently reorganized establishment. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that LGED will fill these positions by December 31, 1996, and GOB would fund these seven positions
from the revenue budget from the fifth year of the proiect (2000-2001) onwards. Agreement was
reached with GOB that it would implement the MANCAPS (see para. 1.41) recommendations on: (i)
improved financial management and internal auditing: (ii) reduction of span of control through more
delegation of responsibilities, and creation of 6 regional offices headed by Superintending Engineer
before March 31. 1997. The other details including MANCAPS recommendations and proposed
organization chart for the management strengthening of LGED are given in Annex 1.2.
2.34   Technical Assistance (Policy Support): It is proposed to carry out the following studies on:
(a) long-term socio-economic impact to evaluate and quantify the impacts of rural infrastructure
investment in the project area on the transport and trading system, on economic and social
development, and on poverty alleviation (which will supplement traffic impact studies carried out as
part of SEM&E (see para. 1.53)); (b) small scale contracting industry to develop a better understanding
of its financial, management and operating characteristics and of the constraints to its development; (c)
study of pavement behavior of various trial sections constructed on FRB roads under the project; (d)
road construction contractor unit costs to develop competitive unit cost rates for different construction
activities; (e) Feeder Roads Regional prioritization study to define guidelines for the prioritization of
FRBs rural roads and markets improvements and for reviewing roads classification; (f) financial
resource mobilization of local bodies; (g) financial audit studies; and (h) technical audit studies. The
outline TOR for the proposed studies is shown in Annex 2.7, with details in PID; these were reviewed
and agreed during negotiations.
2.35   Development of Small Scale Construction Industry: LGED implements a large number of
construction schemes including rural roads, structures and markets through award of contracts. The
capacity of local construction industry largely consisting of petty contractors, is severely constrained
on account of lack of contractor's owned construction equipment (rollers and trucks), training in
contract procedures and management, and weak credit worthiness for receiving mobilization advances
from LGED. Limited construction season, generally December to May, is another key factor which
discourages the small contractors from buying construction equipment. In order to keep the contract
size within the capacity of local contractors, and to help train them, LGED has been awarding
contracts of smaller size (2-3 km with contract value not more than US$100,000) with the time limit of
one construction season, and has also been giving their equipment on rent. The proposed project
would encourage to enlarge the size of contracts by extending the time limit into two construction
seasons. To strengthen the capability of local construction industry, the project will initiate several
next steps including: (a) improving technical and management capacity of small contractors through
training; (b) financing of equipment for leasing to contractors at commercial rates; (c) encouraging the
contractors to own low-cost locally made construction equipment; (d) progressive increase in the size
of contracts. To review these initiatives systematically, a study on small scale contracting industry



30
(para. 2.34) has been proposed and based on its finding an action plan would be prepared to develop
the existing construction industry in Bangladesh.
2.36   Promotion of Private Sector: To promote private sector participation, Working Committee
consisting of representatives from LGED, RHD, Ministry of Industry, Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology (BUET), Contractor's Association, leasing companies, and private
investors, would be created. This committee would help information sharing regarding future road
investments and private sector's role and growth potential in road sub-sector industries. It is expected
that the committee could speed up the introduction of plant hire pools for the small contractors, the
production of bitumen emulsions and the manufacturing of precast concrete units for the construction
of drainage structures on rural roads. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the GOB would
create a Working Committee with representatives from private and public sectors, for promoting
private sector in the rural infrastructure sector before March 31. 1997, and would make best efforts to
implement its recommendations.
2.37   The project will support improved co-ordination and co-operation between the LGED and the
RHD. Possible areas for co-ordination and co-operation are: (a) training of engineers, technicians and
small contractors; (b) promotion of a consistent maintenance approach with increased participation of
road users and clear assignment of responsibilities; (c) selection criteria for upgrading and
improvement and FRB and FRA roads; (d) standard design and specifications for road pavements and
drainage structures; (e) information sharing on the performance of pavement trial sections; (f) quality
control procedures, development of construction equipment, rental charges for plant and equipment,
and unit rates for construction cost estimates.  IDA will promote such cooperation through its
continued project involvement with both LGED and RHD.
(i)   Implementation Support: (Base cost US$14.92 million)
2.38   Given LGED has sufficient experience in implementation of similar rural development projects
and performance of the RRMIMP-1 is quiet satisfactory, LGED can well handle the implementation of
the proposed project on its own. However, for the major project components especially improving
FRB roads and construction of structures on rural roads, where the quality control is a matter of
concern, the project would strengthen the institutional capacity of the Project Implementation Office
(PIO) by financing DSM consultant services, incremental staff positions and the urgently needed
operating costs following similar arrangements under RRMIMP-1. The proposed implementation
support would ensure the timely completion of all project components, will build institutional capacity
and technical capability of LGED in the planning and management of RDPs. The project will include:
(a)   Incremental staff and Operating Costs: (US$3.82 million). The project will finance
incremental staff positions and operating costs  for project implementation, but
excluding staff whose costs can be recovered from fees and charges, e.g. equipment
operators. It will include 394 staffing positions or about 1961 person-year. Annex 3.2
provides more details of project incremental staffing.  LGED's established staff
strength cannot handle many additional tasks related to the project; these staff
requirements were estimated after using private sector consultants to the extent
feasible.
(b)    Design. Supervision and Monitoring (DSM): (US$10.59 million) The project will
finance DSM consultant services. The DSM consultants will be responsible for
engineering design and checking of supervision including signing certificates of
payment and disbursement; will assist LGED in project planning, contracting,
implementation, training, monitoring (including SEM&E) and reporting; and will



31
provide technical assistance on different aspects of the project, including TA in setting
up a maintenance management system in the project area. It is estimated that about
3,376 professional staff months of constancy services will be required including 220
staff months of international consultants. The Terms of Reference for the DSM
consultants are in PID-6.
E. PROJECT COSTS
2.39   The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at US$192.36
million, of which the foreign exchange component is US$46.22 million (24%). Duties and taxes are
estimated at US$13.49 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at 5-10% for civil works, 10%
for equipment and, because of uncertainties about market values of land, 25% for land acquisition.
Price contingencies and foreign exchange rates are estimated on the basis of expected rates of local and
foreign inflation. Local inflation is estimated at rates ranging from 2.5% per annum during the first
year and 4.5% during the remaining period, while foreign inflation is estimated at 2.5% per annum. It
is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity during
the project implementation period. The project cost is summarized in Table 2.1 below and details are
in Annex 2.9.



32
Bangladesh
Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Project
Table 2.1 Project Cost Summary
%     % Toial
(Taka Million)                (USS Million)        Foreign   Basit
Local     Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads
Land Acquisition                                              157.96          -      157.96     3.77        -     3.77         -       2
Upgrading FRB Roads                                          1,544.54    437.75    1,982.29    36.86    10.45    47.31       22       29
Tree Planbng alongside Roads                                   23.88          -       23.88     0.57        -     0.57         -       -
StructuresonotherFRBRoads                                     169.67      91.36      261.04     4.05    2.18      6.23       35        4
Office and Laboratory Facilities                                5.28       3.52        8.80     0.13    0.08      0.21       40        -
Road Safety Improvements                                       21.37          -       21.37     0.51       -      0.51        -
Subtotal Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads                1,922.71    532.63    2,455.34    45.89   12.71     58.60       22      36
B. Maintenance of FRB Roads
Periodic Maintenance                                          360.68      90.17      450.84     8.61     2.15    10.76       20        7
C. Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country wide)
Construction of SRR                                          1,498.97    499.66    1,998.63    35.78    11.93    47.70       25       :9
Ancillary Earthwork                                           309.22          -      309.22     7.38        -     7.38         -       5
Subtotal Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Countrywide)    1,808.19  499.66    2,307.85    43.16   11.93    55.08      22      :14
D. Improvement of Rural Markets
Improvement of Growth Centre Markets                          260.16     111.50      371.65     6.21     2.66     8.87       30        5
Improvement of other Rural Markets                             53.38      22.88       76.26     1.27    0.55      1.82       30        1
Subtotal Improvement of Rural Markets                           313.54     134.37      447.91     7.48    3.21     10.69       30       7
E. Rehabalitation/Construction of River Jetties                  58.66      25.14       83.80     1.40    0.60      2.00       30        1
F. Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)
Technical Support from NGOs                                    21.79          -       21.79     0.52        -     0.52        -
Equipment (mainly pilot vehicles and parts)                    13.83       4.61       18.44     0.33    0.11      0.44       25
Subtotal Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)  35.62       4.61       40.22     0.85    0.11      0.96       11        1
G. Equipment
Construction Equipment                                         69.24      84.62      153.86     1.65    2.02      3.67       55        2
Supervision Vehicles                                           47.45      47.45       94.90     1.13     1.13     2.27       50        1
Laboratory Equipment                                            4.44       6.66       11.10     0.11     0.16     0.27       60        -
Office Equipment                                               12.07      14.75       26.82     0.29    0.35      0.64       55
MIS Related Accessories                                         8.01       9.79       17.81     0.19    0.23      0.43       55
Subtotal Equipment                                              141.21     163.28      304.49     3.37    3.90      7.27       54       4
H. Technical Assistance and Implementation Support
1. Policy Support
Long Term Socio-economic Impact Study                        16.76          -       16.76     0.40        -     0.40         -
Small Scale Contracting Industry Study                        0.83        1.68       2.51     0.02     0.04     0.06       67
Other Studies                                                17.98       4.86       22.84     0.43    0.12      0.55       21
Subtotal Policy Support                                        35.56       6.54       42.11     0.85    0.16      1.01       16        1
2. Project Preparation and Implementation Support
Incremental ProjectStaffand Operating Costs                 160.10          -      160.10     3.82        -     3.82         -       2
Design, Supervision and Monitoring                          277.87     166.01      443.89     6.63    3.96     10.59       37        6
Financial and Technical Audit Services                       20.95          -       20.95     0.50        -     0.50         -       -
Subtotal Project Preparation and Implementation Support       458.92     166.01      624.94    10.95    3.96     14.92       27        9
3. Institutional Development (Capacity Building)
Training and Study Tours                                     31.82       6.52       38.34     0.76    0.16      0.92       17        1
4. Preparation of Follow-up Project                            40.48      26.98       67.46     0.97    0.64      1.61       40        1
Subtotal Technical Assistance and Implementation Support        566.79     206.06      772.85    13.53    4.92     18.45       27       11
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          5,207.38    1,655.92    6,863.30   124.28   39.52   163.80       24      10D
Physical Contingencies                                          386.37     114.97     501.34      9.22    2.74     11.97       23        7
Price Contingencies                                             745.80     232.74     978.55    12.63    3.96      16.59       24      13
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                           6,339.56    2,003.64    8,343.19   146.14   46.22    192.36      24      117



33
2.40   Project cost estimates are based on consultant's preliminary design and are derived from: (a)
proposed design standards, and costs of recently awarded contracts for similar works and current
LGED unit cost rates; (b) preliminary survey of market prices for land; (c) inquiries on current prices
of equipment in Bangladesh and costs of recently procured equipment on similar projects; (d)
prevailing staff costs; and (e) prevailing fees for consultants on rural infrastructure projects in
Bangladesh. Duties and taxes are estimated at 7% of gross cost of civil works executed by contractors,
13% of the cost of locally procured equipment, and 45% of the cost of imported equipment and 75%
for imported four-wheel-drive vehicles.
F. PROJECT FINANCING
2.41   The project would be financed by IDA, SDC, GOB and UPs. The overall financing plan is:
IDA credit US$133.00 million (69% of the total cost); SDC grant US$15.00 million (8% of the total
cost); GOB, US$36.42 million (19% of the total cost); and UPs, US$7.94 million (4% of the total
cost). The IDA credit would cover: 80% cost of the civil works (FRB, SRR, growth center markets
and river jetties); 100% cost of equipment excluding taxes; 100% cost of technical assistance (policy
support); 14% cost of the project implementation support; 14% cost of pilot program to improve
NMT; and average of 50% of the periodic maintenance on FRB roads in the project area on a
declining scale (para. 2.15). The SDC grant of US$15 million would be under joint financing
arrangements, which means that IDA procurement procedures will be applicable to the total project.
SDC participated in the IDA-GOB credit negotiations, and has subsequently signed its Grant
Agreement with GOB. SDC and IDA would sign a trust-fund agreement covering joint-financing
arrangements. SDC Grant would cover: 100% cost of the training and study tours; 86% cost of the
pilot program of NMT; 86% cost of DSM and audit services; and 66% cost of the incremental staff
and operating costs. Project cost estimates and financing plan were reviewed during negotiations.
Fulfilling the conditions of effectiveness of the cofinancing agreement between GOB and SDC (other
than those related to the effectiveness of the GOB-IDA credit agreement) would be a condition of IDA
credit effectiveness. Table 2.2 summarizes the project financing plan by components.
2.42   The Government counterpart resources would finance : 100%  cost of the land acquisition;
average of 50% of the periodic maintenance in the project area; 20% cost of civil works (FRB); 10%
cost of Structures of Rural Roads (SRRs) (only for the first three years); 10% cost of the growth
center markets and river jetties; 20% of the incremental project staff and operating costs; and all costs
(US$13.79 million) in taxes and duties. The UPs will finance 10-20% of the cost of SRRs (10% in the
first three years and 20% in the last two years); 10% of the cost of the growth center markets, and
river jetties. These local contributions are detailed in Annex 2.1.
2.43 One of the main financial issues affecting the project would be that the UPs, which are the
lowest level elected Government in the country have a weak financial basis, and are unable to find
adequate funding for maintaining the infrastructure under their jurisdiction on a sustainable basis and
for constructing essential drainage structures to fill gaps on their roads.  The project proposes
measures to partly improve this situation (see para. 1.35).



Bangladeh
Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Projed
Table 2.2 Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS Mlion)
The Government                                                                                Local
of Bangladesh  Union Parlshad       IDA             SDC           Total       For.  (Excl.  Dutes &
Amnount   %    Amount   %    Amount    %    Amount  %   Arnount  %    Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investrmnt Costs
A. Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads
Land Acquisition                                        4.96   100.0      -      -                                     4.96    2.6      -     4.96
Upgrading FRB Roads                                    11.28    20.0      -      -    45.14    80.0       -       -  56.42   29.3  12.46    40.01       3.95
TreePlantingalongsideRoads                              0.14    20.0      -       -     0.55    80.0       -      -   0.69    0.4       -      0.69        -
Structures on other FRB Roads                           1.43    20.0      -      -      5.71    80.0      -       -   7.14    3.7   2.50      4.14      0.50
OfficeandLaboratoryFacilities                           0.05    20.0      -       -     0.20    80.0       -      -   0.25    0.1   0.10       0.13     0.02
Road Safety Improvements                                0.13    20.0      -      -      0.52    80.0      -            0.64    0.3      -     0.60      0.05
Subtotal Improvementand Upgrading ofFRB Roads            17.99    25.7      -            52.11     74.3      -      -  70.10    36.4  1506    50.54       4.51
B. Maintenance of FRB Roads
Periodic Maintenance                                    6.55    50.0      -       -     6.55    50.0       -      -  13.10    6.8  2.62       9.56      0.92
C. Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country wide)
Construction of SRR                                     5.55    10.0   5.55    10.0    44.43     80.0      -      -  55.54   28.9  13.89    37.77       3.89
Ancillary Earthwork                                     0.86    10.0   0.86    10.0     6.88    80.0       -      -   8.60    4.5       -      8.60        -
Subtotal Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country w    6.41    10.0   6.41    10.0    51.32    80.0  -     -  64.14   33.3  13.89    46.37       3.89
D. Improvement of Rural Markets
Improvement of Growth Centre Markets                    1.07    10.0   1.07    10.0     8.54    80.0       -      -  10.68     5.6  3.20       6.73     0.75
Improvement of other Rural Markets                      0.22    10.0   0.22    10.0     1.78    80.0       -      -   2.22     1.2  0.67       1.40     0.16
Subtotal Improvement of Rural Markets                     1.29    10.0   1.29    10.0    10.32    80.0       -      -  12.90     6.7  3.87       8.12     0.90
E. Rehabilitation/Construction of River Jetties           0.24    10.0   0.24    10.0     1.92    80.0       -      -   2.40    1.2  0.72        1.51     0.17
F. Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)
Technical Support from NGOs                            -0.00    -0.0      -       -     0.08     14.0   0.49    86.0   0.57    0.3      -      0.57        -
Equipment (mainly pilot vehicles and parts)            -0.00    -0.0      -       -     0.07    14.0   0.42    86.0   0.49    0.3  0.12        0.36        -
Subtotal Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (N   -0.00    -0.0  -     -     0.15    14.0   0.91    86.0   1.05    0.5  0.12        0.93        -
G. Equipment
Construction Equipment                                  1.54    35.6      -       -     2.79    64.4       -      -   4.33    2.2  2.38        0.41     1.54
Supervision Vehicles                                    1.08    40.9      -       -     1.57    59.1       -      -   2.65     1.4  1.33       0.24     1.08
Laboratory Equipment                                    0.06    20.9      -       -     0.24    79.1       -      -   0.31     0.2  0.18       0.06     0.06
Office Equipment                                        0.25    32.7      -       -     0.51     67.3      -      -   0.76    0.4  0.42        0.09     0.25
MIS Related Accessories                                 0.16    32.0      -       -     0.35    68.0       -      -   0.51     0.3  0.28       0.07     0.16
Subtotal Equipment                                        3.10    36.2      -       -     5.45     63.8      -      -   8.55    4.4  4.59        0.87     3.10
H. Technical Assistance and Implementation Support
1. Policy Support
Long Term Socio-economic Impact Study                    -      -       -       -     0.43    100.0      -      -   0.43    0.2       -     0.43         -
Small Scale Contracting Industry Study                0.00      -       -       -     0.06    100.0      -       -   0.06      -   0.04      0.02        -
Other Studies                                         0.00      -       -       -     0.60   100.0       -      -   0.60    0.3  0.13        0.47        -
Subtotal Policy Support                                 0.00      -       -             1.09   100.0       -      -   1.09    0.6  0.17        0.92        -
2. Project Preparation and Implenentation Support
Incremental Project Staff and Operating Costs         0.83    20.0      -       -     0.58     14.0   2.75    66.0   4.17    2.2      -     4.17         -
Design, Supervision and Monitoring                    0.00      -       -       -     1.61     14.0   9.87    86.0  11 .48    6.0  4.29     7.18         -
Financial and Technical Audit Services               -0.00    -0.0      -       -     0.08     14.0   0.47    86.0   0.55    0.3      -     0.55         -
Subtotal Project Preparation and Implementation Support  0.83    5.1      -       -     2.27     14.0  13.09    80.9  16.19    8.4  4.29    11.90          -
3. Institutional Development (Capacity Building)
Training and Study Tours                              0.00      -       -       -        -        -   1.00   100.0   1.00    0.5  0.17       0.83        -
Total Disbursement
4. Preparation of Follow-up Project                        -      -                     1.83    100.0      -      -   1.83    0.9  0.73        1.10        -
6umioai Tecnnicai Assistance ana implementation support   0.83    4.1       -       -     5.19    25.8  14.09    70.1  20.11    10.5  5.36    14.75          -
36.42    18.9   7.94    4.1   133.00    69.1  15.00      7.8  192.36   100.0  46.22   132.65    13.49



35
G. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
2.44   The LGED has prepared the project in the light of its considerable past experience, with
assistance from international and local consultants, and in partnership with the IDA and the SDC. The
main project components (roads, markets, ghats) have been selected following an intensive process
involving beneficiary participation, subject to possible essential changes in future; for smaller
components (rural structures etc.) selection process will start following credit approval.  Out of the
list of FRB roads selected for improvement under the project, five roads in Greater Dhaka Area (41
hcm) have already been tendered under retroactive financing (para. 3.21) and work started in January
1996. Supervision consultants for this part of the work have also been appointed following IDA
procedures.
2.45   Engineering designs of FRB roads, markets and ghats proposed for implementation in 1996/97
(first year) have been completed, and contracts for most first year works, particularly for FRB roads,
have already been awarded. Further preparatory work, including preparation of the engineering
designs and bidding documents for second year (1997-98) FRB roads, markets and ghats, is in an
advanced stage and would be completed by end of January 1997. LGED has appointed DSM
Consultants in November 1996, following IDA guidelines. LGED has already appointed Project
Director and other key staff of the Project Implementation Office (PIO). Work on designing markets
with community iilputs is in progress with assistance of preparation consultants, and has been
completed for about eighteen markets. Process of selecting NGOs for further NMT component has
been started and will be completed soon after IDA credit approval. The Land Acquisition Action Plan
(para. 3.28), and the Sector Environmental Assessment (para. 3.29) for the related civil works have
been prepared in accordance with IDA guidelines and have been agreed during negotiations.
2.46   Considerable preparation for the component of SRR component has been completed including
the agreement on participatory procedures in consultation with the local bodies, UPs, TDCC and the
local communities. The actual physical work on this component will start only after the project
approval, since the local bodies who are required to put up initial deposit to signal their participation
in this component, need confirmation on project funding from IDA. The low-cost engineering design
for all sizes of structures have already been developed under RRMIMP-1 and it will take only about
two days for LGED field engineers to finalize the design after site selection is done by local
communities. About 1200 similar structures have already been constructed under RRMIMP-1, and the
experience shows that this component would move expeditiously. The UP chairpersons have shown
enthusiastic support for this component and have indicated that if each UP goes for two structures, the
proposed 6,000 structures would be fully committed early in the project cycle. Since these are several
separate contracts to be executed under the supervision of LGED Thana Engineers, contracts in the
different locations can move simultaneously. The procurement and account-keeping arrangements
acceptable to IDA for small structures have already been established under RRMIMP-1 and would be
followed under the proposed project. To increase public awareness of this nationwide component and
to encourage local community to prepare for active participation in it, the LGED has already launched
public campaign through the media and other channels. Given the innovative features introduced on
participatory process for the structure's site selection and the requirement of an initial deposit by UPs,
it is likely that the physical progress of this component may be slow during the first year, but should
gain momentum in the subsequent years.



36
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. AN OVERVIEW OF THE PARTICIPATORY PROCESS
3.1    The project is considered by IDA as a "flagship" operation in using participatory approach in
view of its emphasis on using borrower and beneficiary participation in the selection, design and
implementation of the project. The participatory approach was emphasized right from the start of
project preparation by organizing several participatory meetings with 'users', rural communities,
beneficiaries,  local government and the related government and non-government organizations.
Locations of main project components (roads, river jetties, markets), have been selected using active
involvement of beneficiaries. Rural structures (SRR costing more than 35% of the project costs), will
be selected using specially designed participatory processes agreed during negotiations (see Annex
2.1). The local bodies (UPs) will put 10-20% (para.2.42) of the structure costs up-front to signal
their financial stake. Actual selection of the structures will be done through a participatory process
involving two stages: (i) selection by UP residents through group meetings for discussing alternatives
using user-inputs techniques (such as, map-making etc.), most likely with assistance of LGED's
community organizers and the projects' participation facilitators (which assistance may not be available
in all cases); and (ii) voting by UP council on the proposed sites (see para. 2.17). Road designs take
into account user preferences, particularly, concerns of NMT operators who are major users. In the
case of growth center markets, the design and layout of facilities is being done in full day meetings
with poor vendors and others who would be the main users of these market facilities; they will also be
given a key role in managing the markets (regarding level of user charges, auctioning of market lease,
maintenance arrangements and funding), through market committees of users, reporting every six
months to an "assembly" of market users, with special emphasis on information sharing. Similarly,
country boat operators and other user groups will be actively involved in Ghat selection, design and
management. For road components, user committees will be set up to give feed back on design and
quality of on-going works. LGED will also initiate pilot programs in at least two districts to try out
new ways for greater community involvement in road maintenance.  Many of the participatory
processes used are based on lessons learned from different pilot programs undertaken in Bangladesh in
which LGED has been involved.
3.2    To ensure the participatory process to be more transparent and well implemented, the project
would finance 17 positions of local specialists in community participation (sociologists or equivalent)
and one expatriate expert with local experience; of these one community specialist will be placed in
each project district, and three community specialists (supervisors) will be assigned to advise and
assist the Project Director and LGED headquarters. In addition, suitable LGED personnel at Thana
level will be trained as "community organizers;" LGED already trained and appointed 10 community
organizers with effect from February 1996. Project implementation actions (para. 2.12. Annex 2.1)
include appointment by LGED of 17 qualified community specialists before March 31, 1997: eight of
them have been appointed, as an advance measure agreed during negotiations. In addition, LGED
would set up, before December 31, 1997, District level Road User Committees in the project area
which would include representatives from different user groups and will promote information sharing
and selection of priorities, and facilitate feedback from users on quality of on-going works.
3.3    The participation specialists will also assist poor workers and destitute women to organize
labor contracting societies (to work as contractors in labor based road works and road maintenance) in
two pilot districts, with the help of NGOs. UP's financial position will be strengthened under the
project (para. 1.35) so that they can effectively participate in their infrastructure maintenance and



37
improvements. Professional participation facilitators will help implement many aspects of the project,
and will also help create a participatory institutional system for future projects. The project agency
(LGED) is fully committed to promoting local participation in projects, and has good track record in
working closely with local communities; overall, the project will strive hard to promote effective local
participation in the design and implementation of rural infrastructure projects, and more importantly
promote a sense of community ownership of rural infrastructure.  Further details of community
participation in rural infrastructure development under the project are given in Annex 2.3.
3.4    The project emphasizes participation of women, who would be some of the main project
beneficiaries in receiving and in getting better facilities as market vendors and users. To increase
participation of women, as part of project implementation actions (see para. 2.14 and Annex 2.1),
LGED would nominate one of its senior staff (the sociologist in the LGED headquarter's office
provided as incremental staff) to look after gender issues. LGED would also recruit more women
engineers as its staff (it has currently only 30 women engineers out of total engineering staff of about
700), and would give special emphasis to the training of the women members of UPs under its
participation training programs under the project so as to strengthen their role in local development
matters. LGED/UPs will also help increase the number of women members in the market and ghat
user committees. The participatory procedures agreed with GOB (para. 2.12 and Annex 2.1) include
these actions.
3.5    The project components have been agreed with the government after extensive deliberations
with the concerned agencies and main user groups. LGED deputed three high level staff to participate
in the pre-appraisal and appraisal teams. In addition, two local consultants with specialized knowledge
on participation also contributed in designing participatory process.
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
3.6    LGED, a well established department with a proven record on implementation of similar rural
roads and market improvement projects. Following the successful model of RRMIMP-1 a separate
Project Implementation Office (PIO) with full-time Project Director (PD) who reports to the Chief
Engineer, LGED has recently been established with its headquarters in Dhaka. The PD will be
responsible for: (a)  rural infrastructure components of the project; (b) selected Institutional and
Human Resource Development sub-components which are specific to the project area; (c) procurement
of equipment and goods; (d) management of the DSM consultants; and (e) financial management and
reporting. The Additional Chief Engineer (Design, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation) will be
responsible for: (a) the implementation of the Institutional and Human Resource Development sub-
components which focus on LGED as an organization and/or have a nationwide perspective; and (b)
the pilot program to improve NMT; and (c) the development of low-cost, appropriate construction
equipment. The project management organogram, and the division of responsibilities between the PD
and the ACE, are detailed in Annex 3.1.
3.7    The PIO will work directly with the offices of the LGED Executive Engineers in the 14 project
Districts and, through them with the offices of the Thana Engineers. At headquarters, the PD will be
assisted by two Deputy Project Directors (DPD): one DPD will head a Unit to look after the project
components in the Greater Dhaka area; and the second DPD will manage project activities related to
the SRR which is national in scope. One senior engineer will be in charge of performance reporting.
To strengthen technical, managerial and administrative capacity,  the PIO  incremental staff at
headquarters will include one Economist to undertake the SEM&E work and two Sociologists (one of
them for SRR follow-up) to work on participatory aspects of the project. The incremental staffing at
District level will include one Sociologist per District to provide additional capacity on land acquisition



38
and participatory aspects of the project. LGED has already appointed Project Director and other key
staff of PIO in October 1996. as agreed during nezotiations.
3.8   Defects Liability Period of Last Year's works: In view of the 5-year implementation period and
since no foreign contractors are likely to be involved in the project works, it has been agreed that the
one year guaranteed maintenance period (defects liability period) of the last year's contract will be
monitored by LGED; the retention money for this maintenance period will be retained by LGED (from
the Government's 20% contribution) in a separate account and paid to the contractors on due
completion. This arrangement will be confirmed during negotiations.
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.9   The project will be implemented over a period of about 57 months between Board date and
Project Completion date (December 1996 to September 2001); Credit closing date will be March 31,
2002.  The proposed implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3.4; this was agreed during
negotiations. For the civil work components the peak level of construction activity is scheduled for the
years 2, 3 and 4 with a minimum level of activity in the year 5.
3.10   Equipment will be procured in two phases: (a) first phase in 1996/97 to equip the PIO and the
five 'new' Districts that have not previously benefited from an RDP; (b) second phase in 1998/99 to
replace existing equipment at District level that has reached the end of its useful working life. The low-
cost, appropriate construction equipment will be developed in the early stages of the project so that it
can be tested in selected Districts in 1997/98 and introduced to all Districts in 1998/99. The impact
study will be carried out in three phases: (a) to collect baseline data; (b) to examine short-term effects
of infrastructure improvements; and (c) to examine longer-term socio-economic impacts - starting in
early 1997 and ending in end-2001. Technical assistance studies will be carried out in the first half of
the project period so that their findings can be applied during the project period.
D. PROCUREMENT
3.11   Procurement of civil works and goods under the project will be in accordance with World
Bank Procurement Guidelines. Table 3.1 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the project.
The procurement plan for civil works packages appears in Annex 3.5.



39
Table 3.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Project Element    Procurement Method                                   Total
ICB         NCB          Others/a      NBF          Costs
Civil Works        -            147.74       9.94          4.96         162.64
(114.26)    (7.95)                     (122.21)
Equipment          3.04         5.0          1.0           -            9.04
(2.00)      (3.00)       (0.52)                     (5.52)
Consultancies      -            -            15.51         -            15.51
(4.69)                    (4.69)
Incremental Cost    -           -            4.17/b        -            4.17
(0.58)                    (0.58)
Training           -            -            1.00/c        -            1.83
TOTAL              3.04         152.74       31.62         4.96         192.36
(2.00)      (117.26)     (13.74)       -            (133.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA Credit
NBF = Not Bank Financed (7his amount relates to land acquisition by Government).
/a  Includes local shopping, direct contracting and force account
/b  This is for incremental staff and operating cost for project implementation , and no procurement is involved in this case
/c  Financed by SDC
3.12   Civil Works: In view of small size of contracts scattered over a large area, civil works for the
improvement and upgrading of FRB roads, for construction of FRB structures, for periodic
maintenance of roads, for construction of structures on rural roads (SRRs), for improvement of
markets, for rehabilitation/construction of ghats and for the construction of the LGED Dhaka District
office are expected to be procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
which do not preclude international participation, using the latest Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) for Procurement of Smaller Contracts. The individual value of these contracts will not exceed
US$1.5 million equivalent, and their aggregate value will not exceed US$148 million equivalent. All
civil works contracts with individual value exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent will be procured
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following IDA Guidelines. Prequalification of
contractors for inclusion in a roster for the works will be completed in accordance with
prequalification procedures agreed with the World Bank prior to project-start, and the prequalification
will be updated mid-way through the project period. Contract awards for all works estimated to cost
more than US$200,000 equivalent (some 60 contracts) will require IDA's prior review and approval.
About 30% of the total estimated civil works and goods procurement would be subject to IDA's prior
review; post review would be undertaken of the remainder.
3.13   For the early implementation of FRB works in the Greater Dhaka Area in 1995/96, estimated
to cost US$3.0 million, pre-qualified contractors under the ongoing IDA financed RRMIMP-1, RDP-6
and RDP-14, together with LGED licensed Special Category contractors in the five concerned
Districts, will be allowed to bid for contracts, but will be eligible for awards only up to the value of
works for which they are pre-qualified.



40
3.14   Because of the social objectives of the project, which encourage involvement of labor
contracting societies (LCS) set up by landless laborers and destitute women, small work contracts for
tree plantation and care-taking on project FRBs will be procured by direct, annual contract with groups
of disadvantaged women and laborers at fixed payment rates. Also, some SRR works for installation
of pipe culverts, including production of the pipes, estimated to cost up to US$8,000 each, will also be
procured by direct negotiated contract with LCS and other organized labor groups at fixed payment
rates based on the prevalent rates for works. Similarly, ancillary earthworks for the SRR component
will be procured by direct contract with LCS and/or organized labor groups, and by casual
employment of laborers at agreed daily rates. Contract documents for procurement of these works will
be based on existing LGED procedures, acceptable to the Association; LGED has sound procedures for
such contracts, and performance will be closely monitored by DSM consultants and technical auditors
(para. 3.25). All these direct contracts for small works will not exceed cumulatively US$10 million;
their individual contract value will not exceed US$10,000 equivalent.
3.15   Equipment and Goods: Imported equipment and goods will be procured by International
Competitive Bidding using the World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods,
except that minor items or groups of items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 will be procured on
the basis of national competitive bidding within an aggregate value of US$5 million. Procurement of
equipment and goods, with items or groups of items estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent,
upto an aggregate value of US$1 million, will be procured by local shopping. This will include the
procurement of production batches of appropriate, low-cost construction equipment and improved
NMT vehicles.
3.16   Contracts for procurement of equipment and goods and works with a value of over
US$200,000, and the first two NCB contracts for works, will be subject to IDA's prior review and
approval. Procurement of construction equipment and vehicles shall be made with due consideration, in
the preparation of procurement documents and the evaluation of bids, of (a) necessary quality and
durability; (b) the standardization of the LGED equipment and vehicle fleet; and (c) the availability in
Bangladesh of reliable spare parts supply and maintenance support service.
3.17   Consultancy services and technical assistance: under the project will be procured in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the IDA, based on the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and The World Bank as Executive Agency (August 1981). The
Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultant's Services for Time-Based Assignments (June 1995)
will be used for consultancy contracts. The proposed consultancy services under the project would
involve contracts of the following sizes: one costing around US$10 million; one costing around
US$1.5 million equivalent, and about ten costing less than US$0.5 million equivalent each. The short-
list, terms of reference, final selection and contract of the DSM consultants, the private auditing firm
and the consultants for the preparation of the follow-up project will be subject to review and approval
by the Bank.
3.18   Consultant services for the conduct of the Impact Study (approximate cost US$0.4 million) will
be procured by direct negotiated contract with a premier economic research institute in Bangladesh
with considerable international recognition. This is essential for continuity of the impact study work
from that which is already being carried out by this institute (Bangladesh Institute of Development
Studies (BIDS)) under RRMIMP-1, and because of their specialized expertise. The terms of reference
and the contract for the study are subject to review and approval of the IDA. The services of suitable
NGO's under sub-contract to LGED to execute the Pilot Program to Improve NMT and for building up
labor contracting societies and other participatory processes, estimated to cost a total of US$1.0
million, will be procured by invitation and evaluation of proposals from selected NGOs and/or
consortia of NGOs who have been identified as having the necessary capabilities to undertake the



41
work. The terms of reference, evaluation and contract will be subject to review and approval by the
IDA. Small contracts for other studies and technical assistance services will be allowed under
negotiated contracts subject to IDA's approval. All consultancy contracts with an individual value of
over US$50,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
3.19   Disbursements under the proposed credit and SDC funds will be made as indicated in Table
3.2 below. The project Implementation Office (PIO) will prepare all withdrawal applications. Full
documentation will be sent to the IDA in support of withdrawal applications except for (a) civil works
and goods contracts awarded under national competitive bidding procedures costing less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 each; (b) civil works let by direct contracts to labor groups or through the
Union Parishad, i.e. tree plantation on FRBs and installation of culverts and ancillary earthworks on
Rural Roads; (c) consultants contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d)
expenditures on training, incremental staff and operating costs. Withdrawal applications for such
expenditures will be supported by certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE), the documentation for
which would not be submitted to IDA but retained by the PIO and made available for review during
the course of project supervision. It is estimated that about US$70 million equivalent would be
disbursed through SOEs. All withdrawal applications in respect of civil works apart from SRRs and
ancillary earthworks will be accompanied by certificates from the DSM consultants attesting that the
works concerned are consistent with the sub-component selection criteria, that the works and materials
meet the design standards and specifications agreed by IDA, and that payments are in accordance with
the works completed. For the SRRs and ancillary earthworks the DSM consultants will annually
inspect all works after completion and certify that they comply with the selection criteria, that they
conform to the agreed technical standards, and that payments which have been made are consistent
with the completed works. Accredited private auditors will conduct financial and performance audit
including sample checking of payment certificates and progress reports by field verification. The
technical and financial audit (see para. 3.25) will have a special focus on reviewing expenditures
through SOEs.
3.20   Disbursements will occur over a five-year period compared with the 7.5 year standard
disbursement profile for Bank funded road projects. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in
Annex 3.6. Civil works are expected to be completed by September 30, 2001, and, with allowance for
six months for final disbursements, the Credit closing date will be March 31, 2002. The Mid-Term
Review will provide an opportunity to adjust the quantum of works under different categories to reflect
implementation capacity as judged from experience in the first half of the project period.
3.21   Retroactive financing and special account: To expedite early start up, IDA would retroactively
finance some urgently needed road works under the project, which were agreed in principle during
appraisal and on which expenditure was incurred after January 1, 1996, provided IDA procurement
procedures and land acquisition guidelines are followed strictly, and the implementation and civil
works have been adequately supervised and the payments have been properly certified by the
consultants acceptable to IDA. Some retroactive financing for consultancy services (supervision and
impact studies, surveys for fixing bench marks) has also been agreed. The total limit for retroactive
financing would be US$3.5 million. To facilitate timely payment of project expenditures, and to avoid
payment delays to the small contractors, a Special Account amounting to US$10.0 million (equal to
four months' average disbursement) would be established at the Bangladesh Bank in Dhaka. IDA
would provide an initial Special Account deposit of US$6.0 million; the Borrower would receive the
full authorized Special Account allocation of US$10.0 million, when aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments shall be equal to
the equivalent of SDR 15.0 million.



42
Table 3.2: DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
IDA                                   SDC
Item/No.                         Amount        % Disbursement          Amount       % Disbursement
US$                                  US$
(million)                             (million)
(1) Civil Works:
(a) Periodic Maintenance of      6.00          80% through June 30,    -
Roads and Structures                           1999
30% thereafter
(b) FRB Improvement &            104.66        80%
Upgrading, Structures on other
FRB, SRR & Ancillary
Earthworks, Market
Improvements, Ghat
Rehabilitation, District
Office/Laboratory
(2) Pilot Program to Imvrove     0.15          14%                     0.91         86%
non-motorized transportation
(3) Equipment & goods:           5.00          100% of foreign         -
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and
80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(4) Technical Assistance and
Implementation Support/I
(a) Studies including follow-up    2.92       100%                    -
project preparation
(b) Incremental staff and      0.58          14%                     2.75         66%
operating costs
(c) Design, Supervision,   }   1.69          14%                      10.34       86%
monitoring, and         }
Financial & technical audit }
services                }
(d) Training & study tours     -             -                        1.00         100%
(5) Unallocated                  12.00
133.00                                15.0
/I     Detailed figures for Policy Support,Project Preparation and Implementation Support, and Institutional Development
(capacity building) are given in Table 2. 1, under para. 2.39.



43
F. REPORTING
3.22   LGED would prepare, with the assistance of the DSM consultants, quarterly progress reports
covering all components of the project and other pertinent information as required. LGED would
submit to IDA: (a) quarterly report within one month of the end of each quarter; and (b)
implementation completion report in accordance with IDA guidelines. These reports will include: (a)
progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key monitoring
performance indicators; (b) work program and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total
project. LGED will also prepare an Implementation Completion Report in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
3.23   Mid-term Review: To examine project progress, IDA and GOB would carry out a mid-term
review before the end of third year (allowing completion of fair-weather season for works). PIO and
LGED would organize the review and prepare terms of reference in consultation with IDA. During the
review the compliance to covenants and performance standards and item wise implementation progress,
against original targets will be closely assessed; based on careful review of progress and possible
future slippage, if likely, the project could be restructured if considered necessary by IDA. The review
would focus on: (a) overall progress achieved both in terms of physical and financial targets and key
indicators for the evaluation of development impact; (b) value of contracts issued as against targets,
and likely programs for issuing, completing new contracts; (c) progress in implementing individual
components, particularly the component of SRR, NMT and maintenance; (d) progress in promoting
participatory approach in the planning and implementation of civil works; (e) improvement in the
financial position of local government (UPs); (f) LGED institutional strengthening; (g) contractor's
performance and growth; and (h) equipment management procedures; revision of rental charges and
cost accounting system. The mid-term review of the project would be completed by October 31, 1999.
G. ACCOUNTS
3.24   LGED would maintain adequate records, in line with guidelines on financial reporting and
auditing of IDA projects, to identify physical progress and financial transactions.  Individually
identifiable accounts would also be kept for: (a) all expenditure for which credit withdrawals are made
on the basis of statement of expenditures (para. 3.19); and (b) the flow of funds from the Special
Account. The PIO will use the Financial Management System developed under RRMIMP-1 to record
details of all contracts including expenditures, and will collate the project accounts of LGED District
and Thana offices. The PIO will prepare consolidated statements for all project components and would
be responsible for maintaining project accounts and financial reports in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
H. FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL AUDITS
3.25   Financial Audit (once in a year) is required to ensure that: (a) Credit proceeds have been used
in accordance with the terms of Credit Agreement and solely for the project purposes; (b) civil works,
goods and services have been procured by the methods specified in the Credit Agreement; and (c) other
Credit Agreement provisions have been complied with satisfactorily. Accredited private auditors,
acceptable to IDA, will be appointed by LGD to carry out financial audit of the project. Performance
of auditing under the ongoing RRMIMP-1 has been satisfactory. In addition to the traditional financial
audit, the project will introduce technical audit to ensure adequate quality of civil works. Technical
Audit (twice in a year) will include on a sample basis the verification of actual work performed and the



44
quality as per approved specifications. Technical audits would be performed by the qualified
consultants acceptable to IDA and may be contracted as a part of the financial audit or separately.
Agreement was reached that the Financial Accounts and Audit Report will be sent to IDA not later
than nine months after the end of the Fiscal Year. and the six-monthly technical audit report not later
than three months after the end of each six-month period of works. The TORs for the financial and
technical audit services are given in PIDs 12 and 13.
I. MONITORING, SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION
3.26   Monitoring indicators have been developed in consultation with the LGED (Annex 3.7) to
show the progress with respect to physical and financial targets on each component. Time-bound
monitorable quantitative and qualitative targets have been designed to measure implementation success
and progress of project components. For evaluation of project objectives and development impact,
performance indicators have been proposed, which will show the status at project start and progress
achieved by mid-term review and project completion. In addition to normal SEM&E studies and
surveys to assess impact of proposed project on traffic levels and transport costs, a larger socio-
economic impact study which will focus on distribution of project benefits and poverty impact, will be
carried out under the project (para. 2.34). All monitorable targets and performance indicators at the
sector level, project level and beneficiary level (shown in Annex 3.7) have been reviewed during
negotiations. The dispersed nature of the project, the involvement of different agencies, tiers of
government and communities and large number of small contracts would necessitate the use of
computerized project management (CPM) software (for example, see the output of software in Annex
3.4) for effective monitoring of project progress. LGED would make use of CPM (preferably
Microsoft Project software) for monitoring of project progress and in the preparation of quarterly
project reports, which would also summarize the activities of the past period, emerging problems and
issues, and recommendations for further steps.
3.27   Project supervision would be closely linked to the project objectives and the annual
implementation plans. It would involve monitoring a number of key indicators and assessing both
quality and quantity aspects of project implementation and their impact. In addition, the PIO would
oversee supervision of project activities to assess field implementation progress and problems,
involvement of beneficiary participation, and impact. The IDA would field normally two missions in a
year, each of about two or three weeks duration, to focus primarily on key implementation issues. The
first mission would concentrate on detailed review of the annual work plan at the onset of budget year;
the second would resolve problems, assess benefits, and draw lessons. The missions would review the
physical components of the project and the institutional and policy development measures proposed
under the project, and it would be done in the context of agreed targets. The LGED will co-ordinate
and provide all necessary information to these missions. Supervision between missions will be assisted
by the infrastructure unit in the Bank's Resident Mission. Main supervision missions (which are
expected to be two per year) will be done in coordination with SDC, which has agreed to actively
support project supervision. In case efforts of coordination in mission would result in timing conflict
between IDA and SDC, the mission timing proposed by IDA, the lead agency, would prevail.
J. LAND ACQUISITION
3.28   Most of the improvement works would be on existing alignments, with some additional land
needed for widening at a few points. Land acquisition of marginal pieces of land for feeder road
improvement will be needed (about 225 hectares, spread over about 575 km of roads in 14 districts;
this equates to about 0.4 ha of land per km of road, or strips of land 2.2 meter wide on either side of
the existing embankments). Rural families welcome proximity to an improved road as it gives better



45
access, and increases land values. Affected households will lose narrow strip of land from their plots.
Arrangement for prior payments of compensation based on market rates, before work starts on any
land to be acquired, has been agreed. No resettlement is expected to be involved. If the land
acquisition reduces the home-stead plot to less than an agreed minimum size, the household will be
fully compensated for purchase of a replacement plot; the number of such cases would be small, and
their location cannot be identified until the land acquisition is under way for each road. In the unlikely
event that genuine squatters are found on any land to be acquired, contingency resettlement measures
have been agreed. IDA reviewed the Land Acquisition Action Plan (Annex 3.8) prepared by the
Government and it was substantially agreed. Agreement was reached during negotiation with
GOB/LGED on the Land Acquisition Action Plan including the following: (a) grievances procedures
including UP members in the process: (b) monitoring by LGED. and periodic performance evaluation
by an independent local individual or agency: and (c) acceptance in principle of resettlement
procedures for affected persons to be applied if needed. A major difficulty observed in processing the
land acquisition payment, is the time consuming bureaucratic procedure for according administrative
approval by LGD of the land proposed to be acquired. In order to expedite the processing of land
acquisition payments, it was agreed during negotiations that LGD would set up a commnittee headed by
a Deputv Secretary (who will directly report to the LGD Secretary) with representatives from LGED
before Board presentation, which will: (a) ensure that the Ministry's administrative approval is given
within seven days of request by LGED, (b) liaise with respective district commissioners to speed up
the process of land acquisition and compensation. and (c) ensure that LGED will report to IDA on
progress of land acquisition. This committee has been set up in October 1996.
K. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
3.29   An environmental analysis of the project was carried out by reviewing each project component
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Based on this analysis, the project was categorized as "B". The
project will have substantial positive environmental impact, and is not expected to have adverse impact
on the physical or ecological environment. No new road alignments are involved and the proposed
works are improvement, upgrading and maintenance of existing roads. The road works will have
positive environmental impacts - the provision of drainage structures will reduce water logging, the
bitumen surfacing will eliminate the dust hazard, the hard shoulders will improve safety, and trees will
be planted alongside all project roads.  The project will encourage the use of NMT which is
environmentally friendly. The physical environment, health standards and quality of life in the markets
and ghats will be improved through provision of clean, dry, free-draining areas, potable water supplies
and sanitation: bio-gas production from the garbage pits will be tried on a pilot basis in some market
improvement projects. Mitigation measures acceptable under IDA guidelines would be taken to avoid
any adverse environmental impact during project implementation. An environmental impact study and
Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) have been carried out by the LGED with the assistance of
consultants. The SEA, and the proposed mitigation measures, monitoring plan and recommended
actions have been reviewed with IDA, and are acceptable under IDA's Environmental Assessment
Guidelines. LGED has agreed to ensure: (a) adequate provisions for waste water and drainage facilities
in the design of rural markets and ghats; (b) the embankment slopes in the design of FRB and
structures, to maintain soil stability; and (c) erosion protection measures, where necessary. It was
agreed during negotiations that LGED will take actions in conformity with SEA.



46
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION & RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC RETURN
Nature of project benefits
4.1    The project would benefit the project area through improvement in access and more efficient
marketing, and would also bring several other socio-economic benefits which are difficult to quantify.
The following discusses the general nature of benefits based on previous impact studies, and also
presents a partial economic return analysis of the proposed project based on easily quantifiable
benefits.
4.2    The critical importance of improving the condition of rural roads and markets in Bangladesh as
a way to improve rural income and reduce poverty has been recognized in the country's development
strategy.  The Rural Infrastructure Strategy study carried out by the IDA in collaboration with
GOB/LGED confirms that much of the rural road system, and most of the important markets, remain
in poor condition; it also found that investment on improving these facilities is essential to develop
rural economy and to reduce rural poverty, and recommends a larger investment program than
undertaken in the past decade. Recent IDA/GOB study on agricultural strategy also underlines the
need for improving rural infrastructure in support of agricultural diversification and growth, and
IDA's Country Assistance Strategy emphasizes rural transport development in view of its impact on
agriculture, rural economic growth, employment and poverty alleviation.
4.3    There is evidence to demonstrate the strong relationship between socio-economic well-being
and rural infrastructure supply, in the light of various studies in Bangladesh. Studies further show that
these investments benefit the rural poor more: the functionally landless and small farmers gained a
larger share of the increase from crops, wages, and livestock and fisheries, and there was a higher
proportion of employment of women.  Socio-economic monitoring and evaluation studies under
different LGED RDP projects show that improvement of FRBs produces a significant increase in non-
motorized and motorized transport services, a shift to more efficient transport modes, lower transport
costs for goods and passengers, a reduction in the dependence on travel by foot and head-porterage for
carrying of goods, and a substantial increase in traffic volumes, with overall improved access to goods
and to social services.  The same studies show that the improvement of rural market facilities,
combined with FRB improvements, leads to increases in throughput of goods, number of market
visitors, market turnover and market lease value, to reduced spoilage of goods, with the markets
developing into more efficient and hygienic trading centers for the poor farmers and vendors who are
their main users. More specifically, post appraisal of completed project components under the ongoing
RRMIMP-1 (RDP-7) show that traffic volumes in ton-km and passenger-km increased over 70% in
cargo and over 172 % in passenger traffic on the improved roads in the first year following
development, that bus services started for the first time on these roads which brought major benefits to
local people, and that partial quantified benefits from the project showed about 22% (range 14 - 45%)
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) from road investments and from market investments. Further,
estimates based on surveys of employment created under the completed rural infrastructure components
show, that on completion in 1997, these components, costing about US$64 million equivalent, would
have created: about 18,000 person-years of direct employment through labor-based construction
activities, and indirect employment at a rate of about 6000 person-years per year (in maintenance about
1000, and the rest in rickshaw-van and other transport operations, in markets, new road-side shops
etc.) which would be continued during the project life.



47
4.4    The Project Area: The Northwest Region remains economically and socially disadvantaged -
agricultural wage labor rates, GDP per capita, and male and female adult literacy rates are all below
the national average. Communications between the Northwest Region and the rest of the country will
be improved with the completion of the Jamuna Multi-Purpose Bridge; further development of the road
and market network will allow the area to exploit the economic opportunities that this will provide.
The rural Greater Dhaka Districts (except one) did not benefit from any RDPs, so far, and have severe
deficiencies in its rural transport and market infrastructure to serve its fast-growing high-price
horticultural crops which need timely transport and marketing; this area has higher population density
and higher traffic (NMT-dominated) than the North-West Region. Even after the completion of the
proposed project, both these areas would still meet only about 50-60% of the estimated current
requirements in infrastructure improvements.
Economic Return Analysis
4.5    The project's Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has been estimated based on quantifiable
benefits with reference to three main components: FRB road improvements, growth-center markets,
and Structures on Rural Roads (SRRs), as summarized below; a composite ERR for the project was
then estimated based on these three components.
4.6    FRB road improvements: The detailed analysis of economic costs and benefits of improvement
and upgrading of FRB roads, is given in PID-15. The analysis is at 1995 prices. The costs in the
economic analysis comprise the estimated investment in road improvement and upgrading and
construction of structures, land acquisition and tree plantation, routine and periodic maintenance over
the predicted 15 year life of the roads, and 7% of construction costs as an allowance for design and
supervision. Taxes, duties and contingencies are excluded. Costs of imported goods are taken at
border prices (cif prices), and the local costs are adjusted to border prices using a general conversion
factor of 0.9. Similar adjustments are also made for the value of benefits. The economic benefits
accrue to savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). For vehicles, VOC savings are estimated from
input prices and cross-checked and verified against actual tariff charges in the rural transport market.
For non-motorized means of transport VOC savings are based on actual differentials in charges
between existing poor and improved roads, as they substantially reflect the cost variations due to
greater exertion and energy levels (food as fuel) needed for rougher roads, in the highly competitive
markets for these services. A good body of comparative data on these charges has been collected in
Bangladesh from past studies under ongoing projects and through surveys for the proposed project
which provide a consistent pattern of cost differences for different road conditions and vehicle types.
Impact studies on completed projects (see para. 1.49 and Annex 1.4) also show a consistent pattern of
changes in vehicle types as roads are improved, for example from walking to bicycles and buses, from
bullock carts to rickshaw vans and small trucks, etc. which provide reliable estimates of traffic pattern
and growth. Transport cost differences are estimated based on changes in modal-mix assumed based
on such information. Bench-mark traffic surveys have been made for all 69 roads selected for the
project.
4.7    Traffic growth has been estimated as follows: annual 8% for normal growth (about 1.5 times
the expected economic growth rate, based on available country-wide estimates); a generated traffic due
to road improvement using a price elasticity of demand for goods and passenger transport of -1 with
reference to transport cost reductions, and for diverted traffic based on the actual potential as assessed
through surveys as this varies from case to case. Overall , the traffic projected is very conservative
compared to actual growth recorded in the case of similar road improvements completed under the
IDA-SDC-KfW -supported RRMIMP-1, and under the GTZ - supported RDP-14, where traffic
increased steeply (motor vehicles and NMT vehicles by 160% and 146% respectively; passenger traffic
volume in passenger-kms by over 172% mainly because of starting of bus services, and cargo ton-kms



48
by 70%) the pre-development level within about a year after road development; this shows that the
dynamism of economic and traffic growth is higher than conventionally assumed growth rates, and that
even as a road is improved (preceded by a long process of preparation and public awareness) change
begins to take place without much time-lags. The traffic assumptions made in this study lead to an
overall traffic growth of the following order for a typical road: total traffic increase (in ton-kmn and
passenger-kin) after three years after work completion (giving time for full generated traffic and traffic
diversion to come about) of about 55% in passenger and 104% in goods, the latter consisting of about
26%  normal growth in three years (at cumulative annual rate of 8%), 37% generated traffic (total one-
time growth spread over three years) and 41 % diverted traffic (total one-time growth); after the three
years, total traffic is assumed to increase at the normal growth rate of 8%. Compared to the post-
appraisal traffic growth rates noted above, these projections are very conservative, particularly for the
passenger traffic. The transport cost differences are estimated using changed modal mixes and costs,
following development, as discussed earlier, taking into account the characteristics of each road. Full
transport cost savings are included as project benefits for normal traffic growth, and only 50% savings
for generated and diverted traffic as well.
4.8    The economic rate of return on the investment in FRB improvement and upgrading, based on
the transport cost savings, is estimated as 30.4%. The flow of costs and benefits for a sample project
road, and other details of the analysis are presented in PID-15.
4.9    SRRs:  The main economic significance of SRR investment is that an investment of about
US$8,000 on an SRR will convert about 1.75 km of existing rural road (costing about US$70,000)
from a seasonal to all-season road. The economic analysis of the Structures on Rural Roads (SRR)
component (see PID-16) is based on a 'typical investment scheme to construct small structures on a
length of Rural Road in order to span two gaps and provide a continuous road alignment. The costs in
the analysis include the investment in the construction of the structures and the ancillary earthworks,
routine and periodic maintenance of the road and the structures over the predicted 15 year life, and 7%
of construction costs as an allowance for design and supervision. The benefits from the investment
have been derived based on field surveys of a sample of Rural Roads with and without gaps. These
show that the major benefit from providing continuous alignments is to eliminate the delays that occur,
particularly in the wet season, in crossing gaps or diverting to other, longer routes to avoid the gaps.
The spanning of the gaps will stimulate the growth of wheeled traffic and generate passenger and
goods movement on the road. The benefits are estimated as the time savings to normal and generated
traffic - pedestrians, passengers and vehicles - from eliminating the delays caused by gaps plus the
savings in ferry charges - 'informal' ferry services operate across some gaps during the wet season.
The base case economic rate of return for the SRR component, based on a 'typical' scheme is 30.2%.
The flow of costs and benefits for a typical SRR scheme is presented in PID-16. Nearly 30% of the
benefits accrue to the poorest beneficiaries, the pedestrians who continue to travel on foot after the
structures have been constructed because the cannot afford to use other means of transport.  The
component will benefit them in terms of better access to work, to markets and to social services.
4.10   The SRR component will comprise a large number of small investment schemes (each structure
(usually a culvert) costing about US$8,000 equivalent, with significant variability in the structures
required and the traffic volumes between individual schemes. Tests have therefore been carried out to
analyze the sensitivity of the rate of return to these variables. If the size of the structures required is
larger than in the typical scheme, costs will increase. A cost increase of 20% reduces the rate of
return to 25%, and a cost increase of 50% reduces it to 19%. Costs must increase by over 120% to
bring the rate of return down to 12 %. If traffic volume is less than in the typical scheme, benefits will
decrease. A decrease of 20% in traffic volume reduces the rate of return to 24%. A traffic volume
45%  of that on the 'typical' scheme is sufficient to give an economic rate of return of 12%. The
economic justification for the SRR component is therefore very robust.



49
4.11   Growth Centre Markets: Many Growth Centre markets (public facilities for trading produce
and goods with basic facilities for cleanliness, drainage and paved areas partly under roof, each
costing about US$60,000 a piece) will be improved at the same time that the FRBs that serve them are
improved and upgraded; in some cases roads are already improved. It is therefore difficult to isolate
the respective contributions of the market investment and the road improvements. One benefit that is
specific to the market improvements is the reduction in spoilage of marketed produce. Because the
improved market is clean, and the produce is protected from the elements and sold more quickly,
spoilage losses for items such as rice, fish, meat, eggs, milk and vegetables are reduced.  The
economic analysis for market improvement (PID-17) is therefore based on the benefits from reduced
spoilage - this can be seen as a proxy for the increased profitability to sellers of produce directly due to
the market improvements. The costs included in the analysis are the investment in the improved
facilities, the routine and periodic maintenance over the assumed 15 year life of the market and 7% of
construction costs as an allowance for design and supervision. The RRMIMP SEM&E studies show
that market improvements reduce spoilage losses by about 3 % of the value of the vulnerable produce.
Based on the characteristics of, and the volumes of goods sold in, the Growth Centre markets proposed
for improvement, a spoilage savings of 3% will generate an economic rate of return for the project
markets of 20.2%. The return is higher for large markets (25%) and lower for small markets (14%).
The flow of costs and benefits for a medium-sized market is presented in PID-17. These rates of
return are based on partial benefits since:
(a)   there are other economic benefits to market users, particularly the regular traders, from
the much more hygienic conditions in the improved markets; (the usually dirty and
stinking market areas where the poor vendors trade would turn into clean dry areas,
garbage giving place to clean bio-gas in some cases where small low-cost pilot
facilities will be installed for the purpose); moreover, new permanent private shops
open up around the public markets while existing shops expand, land values and rents
increase).
(b)   the integration of investments in improvement of markets, roads and ghats will together
stimulate increased trading and economic activity at the markets. It is reasonable to
argue that a proportion of these benefits is attributable to the market investment.
4.12   Seen as a joint investment with roads (with market investment being about 10%  of the
investment on a typical 7 km road improvement, the latter producing about 30% ERR), the investment
has high ERR even if market benefits are excluded. Testing of the sensitivity of the economic rate of
return to the key assumptions made in the SRR analysis shows that if the costs are 20% higher than
estimated the rate of return is 17%. If the spoilage savings is only 2.4% rather than the 3.0%
predicted, the rate of return is 16%. A spoilage savings of 2% is sufficient to give an economic return
rate of 12%.
4.13   The composite rate of return for the three components for which economic analysis has been
carried out ( weighted average) is 29.5%. Table 4.1 shows that the three components for which
economic analysis has been carried out represent 71 % of the total financial cost of the project. The
economic costs included in the analysis amount to 75.5% of the total economic cost of the project.
The components that have not been analyzed will also generate economic benefits. The construction of
'Structures on Other FRB' can be expected to have similar impacts to the SRRs. The road safety
measures will reduce losses due to accidental injury and death. Periodic maintenance of roads is
known to be economically efficient, and the ghat improvements will generate benefits through reduced
spoilage and increased safety. The pilot component to improve NMT will ultimately lead to more
efficient provision of rural transport services, and the technical assistance will increase the efficiency



50
of LGED as a rural infrastructure provider. Further, as noted above, there are additional, unquantified
economic benefits from the three components that have been analyzed.
Other Development Impacts
4.14    The rate of return can be regarded as being based on partial benefits.  While transport cost
savings are the mechanism through which many of the economic impacts are generated, given that
transport and trading permeates so many aspects of rural life in Bangladesh the provision of improved
access will generate other effects such as new income-generation opportunities, faster diffusion of
agricultural technologies and increased utilization of health and educational services.
Table 4.1: Project Economic Rate of Return
Component                        Financial               Economic
Cost                   Cost                    EIRR
(US $ million)         (US $ million)
A. Improvement and
Upgrading of FRB Roads
- FRB Improvement                             62.07                   52.55                    30.3
- Structures on Other                          8.03                    6.44
FRB, Road Safety
B. Periodic Maintenance                           13.10                  110.35
C. SRR                                            64.15                   54.60                   30.2
D. Rural Markets
- Growth Centres                               10.68                   9.08                    20.2
- Other Markets                                2.22                    1.78
E. Ghats                                           2.4                    1.92
F. Pilot NMT Component                            1.05                    0.88
G. Equipment                                      8.55                    4.96
H. Technical Assistance                           20.11                   11.20
Total                                            192.36                  153.74                   29.5*
* Based on quantified benefits for 75.5% of project costs.
Notes:   Financial cost includes physical and price contingencies, and duties and taxes.
Economic cost excludes duties, taxes and price contingencies. Local currency financial costs are converted to economic border
prices by applying a general conversion factor of 0.9.
In the economic cost column, design and supervision costs included in the economnic analysis have been transferred from
Technical
Assistance to the relevant components.
4.15    The main project beneficiaries will be the rural population within the influence of the project.
These investments are extensive and widely dispersed, and a substantial proportion of the population of
the project area will benefit. The project will have a direct impact on the income of farmers and farm
laborers, market traders, transport operators, construction and maintenance workers including
disadvantaged women, small and cottage industries, contractors, workshops and local manufacturing
industries, and local government bodies. More generally, the rural population will benefit through
increases in economic activity, employment and income-generation and through better access to work-
places, and to health, education, administrative and social services.  The improved transport and
trading system should lead to lower prices for basic commodities. Small and cottage rural industries
will benefit from improved access to raw materials and to markets. Rural health conditions will be
improved through the provision of clean, dry, hygienic facilities at rural markets and ghats.
4.16    The project will  also develop the capacity of local government bodies to assume greater
responsibility for local-level infrastructure and its financing, and will increase the participation of rural
communities in sustainable infrastructure development. The use and promotion of appropriate labor-
intensive technology in road improvement and maintenance will leave behind a valuable skill in the
rural areas for easily affordable maintenance systems strengthening future sustainability. The project



51
will also strengthen LGED' s management and implementation capacity and capability as the
government agency with the main responsibility for rural infrastructure, and will increase the
capability and involvement of the private sector in rural infrastructure development.
4.17   Employment and poverty reduction:  The Project is part of IDA's program  of targeted
intervention due to its focus on low-income commnunities. The critical importance of improving the
condition of rural roads and markets in Bangladesh as a way to improve rural income and reduce
poverty has been recognized in the country's development strategy. The project focuses on rural areas
where the incidence of poverty is more widespread (see para. 2); its special focus is on Northwest
region, which is the poorest region in the country. Choice of project facilities has given priority to
areas where people suffer from inadequate access and poor market facilities. Overall, the proportion
of the poor among project beneficiaries will be significantly larger than their proportion in total
population (see para. 3). Improvement of markets will provide better and more healthy facilities for
poor market vendors. The use of labor-intensive methods for civil works will create over 20,000
person-years of employment in construction, and more than 2,000 person-years of employment
annually in maintenance which will continue beyond the project period; based on RRMIMP-1
completion studies, other new employment as transport operators (mainly NMT), vehicle repairs and
service, and small trading and shop-keeping could exceed 10,000 persons annually. Most of the
beneficiaries from increased employment will be the landless poor, destitute women, and under-
employed small farmers.  Most works would be done through labor-intensive methods, using
appropriate small equipment, to maximize employment impact. Many construction works, and all
routine maintenance works, will be targeted at the landless and at disadvantaged women, particularly
through the use of labor contracting societies under which poor workers organize themselves as small
contractors thus earning more than the usual wage.
B. PROJECT RISKS
4.18   There are no major risks in proceeding with the project. Project risks have been minimized by
special design features and measures taken or built into project preparation and implementation. The
project concept has already been tested successfully through the ongoing RRMIMP-1. The project has
been carefully designed to achieve effective implementation, and many of its features such as definition
of the PIO management structure, incremental staffing, tasks of the DSM consultants, and monitoring
procedures, are modeled on the ongoing project experience with necessary improvements based on
lessons learnt. LGED has demonstrated its capability to implement projects efficiently and coordinate
effectively with donors, and the project will further strengthen its management capacity. To sustain the
flow of benefits from project investments, Government funds are available for FRB maintenance, and
LGED has already established the basis of a maintenance management system, which will be further
supported through the project components.
4.19   The following assesses potential project risks, and measures adopted to minimize them: the
risks discussed relate to: (a) possible constraints in contractor capacity to implement the project which
is much larger than the ongoing project and is to be implemented in a shorter period; (b) possible
constraints in LGED's implementation capacity for the larger project; (c) delays in land acquisition, (d)
the large national component on rural structures which was not in the first project; (e) possible
failure of the participatory processes being tried out for the first time on such large scale; and (f)
inadequate maintenance funding and arrangements.



52
(a) The project size and contractor capacity
4.20   Reference is invited to Annex 3.3 which  presents a full analysis of project size increase
compared to the ongoing first project, and assesses the capacity of contractors and LGED to implement
such a larger project. The proposed project is about 50% larger than the ongoing project comparing
levels of total physical output; considering also its shorter implementation period of five years, the
annual output level is about 107% more; if a six-year implementation period is considered, the annual
output is about 72% higher. Against this, the project area is about 75 % larger (14 districts versus 8),
which means that there is also about 75% increase in contractor capacity as the small size contractors
to do feeder road works and markets and river ghats are generally available in all districts, their
operations being generally limited by logistical problems to one or two districts; the project would
provide training and other support , including equipment on lease, to enhance the quality and capacity
of these contractors; in fact, recent bidding under retroactive financing for 45 km of roads (about 11
contracts) under the new project in the new project districts (greater Dhaka) has already shown an
average qualified bidders per contract.
4.21   Thus, about 75% capacity increase can be explained from the increased project area with its
own contracting capacity. The remaining extra capacity (of about 32%) is expected from the fact that
the new project is not a pilot project and is built on lessons already learnt from the first project in
trying out various specifications, standards and procedures.   LGED  have also become more
experienced; the new project has also many measures to increase contractor efficiency and capacity
(larger size contracts of average 4-6 km, with 2-year contracts, provision of mobilization advances for
buying own equipment, as against one-year contracts of 2-3 km without mobilization advance under the
first project; higher standards in prequalifying contractors, more training etc.); it also will give about
100 km of the roads to a new category of medium size contractors (for 10 km, US $ 1 m value
contracts) who currently work on the main roads projects under RHD, who will infuse new capacity to
the feeder road sector). In addition, 45 km FRB improvements have already started under retroactive
financing before project approval. Many initial delays which affected the first project would be avoided
by making the appointment of supervision consultants and bidding for first year works a condition
before Board presentation. The second project is much better prepared and its implementation in all
aspects would be more efficient. No significant risk in contractor capacity is therefore expected.
4.22   A sensitivity analysis shows that if a 6-year implementation period is used instead of 5 years,
the extra output and capacity needed is only 72% above the first project, which can be fully met from
the capacity gain due to area expansion; the factors of efficiency increase noted above will, in this
case, create a slack in capacity and give a large extra cushion. Therefore, if implementation is found
lagging, a decision can be made at mid-term review to extend the implementation period by one year or
to restructure the project with more allocation for fast moving components.
4.23   As regards the national components, the SRR components would be done mainly through a
different category of very small labor contractors (contracts of about $8000 each), for which there is
no shortage (see para. below on SRR). The NMT component would be implemented almost entirely
through experienced local NGOs with minimal supervision from LGED.
(b) LGED capacity to implement the project
4.24   LGED capacity to implement the project as noted has expanded very much under various
management improvement measures, and its institutional capacity would be further enhanced through
the project and through other donor support. LGED has become a much more experienced body over
the past decade (now implementing about US$1 billion worth of projects portfolio mostly funded by
foreign agencies) and is rated a successful and dynamic agency; (see para. 1.42). In addition, the



53
project would provide incremental staff in the project areas, will have a larger PIO with deputy
director for the new project districts as they need special attention and another Deputy Director to look
after the SRR components through participatory specialists to be recruited, and additional senior staff
for project monitoring and other functions (see para. 3.6), it will also have a large DSM consultants
support appropriate for the larger size project. A new feature would be technical audit by a private
sector firm, which will carry out regular six-monthly inspection of work verification and technical
quality as an additional  control and monitoring tool  to ensure  efficient and timely project
implementation. All these measures would minimize any possible risk about LGED's capacity to
manage the project.
(c) Delays in land acquisition
4.25   Procedure for acquisition of land in accordance with OD 4.30 will be more rigorous than on
the RRMIMP-1 in respect of compensating all affected persons at full market value of losses, and
paying compensation prior to commencement of construction works on the land to be acquired. The
risk is that land acquisition will take longer than planned so that implementation of FRB improvement
and upgrading works is delayed. This risk has been reduced by the following factors: Most works are
on existing alignments, and only marginal additional land needs to be acquired; LGED has experience
in land acquisition in the first project though compensation in that project was not insisted to be paid
before start of works (the typical land acquisition is for marginal addition to road width on existing
roads from land -owners alongside roads, who in many cases are willing to give land free for road
improvement since improved road will give them much better access to markets and health ,school and
other facilities, and will also enhance value of their remaining land); LGED has a decentralized field
office network which would help them to implement and monitor land acquisition work in
coordination with the various land-related agencies and local affected persons and UPs; LGED land
acquisition capacity will be reinforced with incremental staffing in each District and DSM consultant
inputs; and, a realistic action plan for land acquisition has been agreed.
(d) Large National SRR component
4.26   It is true that this is the first time a nationwide component with such participatory process is
being designed. However, risks of its failure are minimized by many factors. As noted (see para.
2.17) there is general enthusiasm among UPs, based on preliminary interviews, to go for this
component, as it meets a critical local need, with only 10-20% contribution of UP funds. The 6000
structures under the project could be absorbed by 1-2 structures in each UP, or more likely with more
in some UPs since a competitive system has been designed for eligibility. Though the initial selection
process may be delayed, their construction period is only about 2 months each. Contractor capacity
already exists as demonstrated by another ongoing nationwide structures project funded by USAID;
and the proposed project's efforts to involve labor-contracting societies will further enhance capacity.
LGED has already helped build about 1200 such rural structures with good success under the first
project (though selection was not participatory), and this has already established a good supervisory
and financial control system. The work will be supervised by LGED's Thana engineers who operate
in all Thanas; DSM engineers will also supervise the work on a selective basis. An experienced
Deputy Director will coordinate and provide overall supervision for the PIO. Even though UPs have a
major voice in selection and implementation, contracts will be awarded through TDCC Tender
Committees (which has LGED and UP representation) under IDA procurement procedures, as done
for the first project, and project accounts will be maintained as under the first project; therefore, there
is no risk of lack of financial control; private financial auditors and "technical performance" auditors
(new feature) would further keep close watch through sample checks of quality and financial aspects
with special emphasis on this component.



54
(e) Insufficient community participation
4.27   Effective community participation is an important innovative feature. It is intended to achieve
selection of SRR schemes and design of market and ghat facilities to meet local priorities and user
preferences, and to develop community ownership of rural infrastructure. This being a new feature
and a slow process, there is a risk this may slow down the project components or may not be effective.
The factors reducing this risk are: GOB's and LGED's own present strategies emphasize community
participation, and LGED's commitment has already been shown through training schemes they have
started under project preparation phase and their action (already taken) to train and designate some of
their local staff as social organizers; the project further provides some expatriate support and additional
Laval experts to assist LGED to facilitate the process, and there will be close supervision and
monitoring of this component.
0) Inadequate maintenance
4.28   While lack of adequate maintenance is a usual risk, the present project should be considered
free from it. This risk has been minimized by: LGED's and Government's willingness to increase
maintenance budget allocations to adequate levels as observed during the current year (see para. 2.17),
LGED's ongoing special efforts to improve maintenance efficiency which will be assisted through the
project's maintenance component, and the project's provisions seeking Government assurances for
providing adequate maintenance funds in the project area and nationally.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.29   Most of the risks mentioned above, if they materialize, would express themselves as delays in
project completion and deferment of benefits and possibly increased costs. These situations are
analyzed through the Table 4.2 which shows that the project will yield an ERR above 17%, exceeding
even under very adverse situations (of costs up by 20%, along with benefits down by 20% or deferred
by one year); moreover, this ERR estimation excludes several project benefits.  The project is
therefore free from significant economic risks, even if some delays and slippages occur.



55
Table 4.2: Sensitivity of Economic Rates of Return to Project Risks
EIRR (%)
FRB          SRR          Markets       Weighted
Component    Component   Component   Average
Increase in Costs:
+20%                             24.8          25.0          16.8         24.3
+40%                             20.6          21.1          13.9         20.3
Decrease in Benefits:
-20%                              23.9          24.0         16.1         23.3
-40%                              17.5          17.1         11.3         16.8
Increase in Costs olus
Decrease in Benefits:
+20%, -20%                        16.9         19.5          12.8         17.8
20% Increase in Costs vlus
Benefits Deferred bv One Year     19.4          21.6         14.6         20.0
4.30   The project's monitoring system provides indicators and warning signals to enable action to be
taken if delays or other problems materialize. In the event of significant, unforeseen delays, the
comprehensive Mid-Term Review would provide an opportunity to revisit project design and to
restructure it with light of actual performance of various components to incorporate lesson learned.
The road sections and markets and ghats are largely discrete, separate, items, and excluding some of
them from the final project at that stage would not reduce benefits from the remaining components.
However, the overall assessment is that such risks are minimal.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations agreements were reached with GOB and LGED on the following:
(a)    GOB would review with IDA by September 30, 1997 road classification revisions
made by LGED, and would take into account IDA's views while finalizing the revised
classification (para. 1.12);
(b)    GOB would complete the study on UPs Financial Resource Mobilization by December
31, 1997 and, in consultation with IDA, prepare a plan of action based upon the study
results, and carry it out by December 31, 1998 (para. 1.35);
(c)    LGED would follow the criteria for selection and design of sub-components, and
implementation procedures and timeframe for various physical components under the
project, as agreed at negotiations (para. 2.12 and Annex 2.1);



56
(d)    GOB will provide annual budget allocation for routine and periodic maintenance of all
maintainable FRBs, RRs and structures in the country from FY 1997/98 to 2001/02,
estimated at US$21 million in 1997/98, increasing annually by US$2.5 million
equivalent; and will provide additional budget allocation or other funding if funds from
external sources for the Road Maintenance Program (RMP) is discontinued or reduced
below the FY 1995/96 level (para. 2.17);
(e)    LGED will agree with IDA the annual maintenance program for the project area for
the following year before June 30 of each year, and designate a qualified maintenance
engineer in each district and thana in the country by March 31, 1997 (para. 2.18);
(f)    GOB would: (a) ensure that charges for renting equipment bought under the project are
sufficient to cover the maintenance and replacement costs of such equipment; (b) make
available to LGED annually, through budget allocations into a separate identifiable
item in LGED's budget, for maintenance and replacement costs of such equipment,
funds equivalent to the estimated rent collections for the following financial year; and
(c) ensure use of these accounts exclusively to fund maintenance and replacement of
equipment (para. 2.31);
(g)    GOB would implement the MANCAPS recommendations regarding LGED on: (i)
improved financial management and internal auditing; (ii) reduction of span of control
through more delegation of responsibilities, and creation of about 6 regional offices
headed by Superintending Engineers before March 31, 1997; and would fund from
revenue budget, from the fifth year of the project, seven positions of high level staff in
LGED, initially funded under the project (para. 2.33);
(h)    GOB would set up a committee with representatives from private and public sectors for
promoting private sector in the rural infrastructure sector, before March 31, 1997 (para
2.36);
(i)    GOB/LGED would furnish to IDA: (a) annual financial audit reports not later than
nine months after the end of each FY; and (b) six-monthly technical audit report not
later than three months after the end of each six-month period of works (para. 3.25);
and
(j)   Implement the Land Acquisition Action (para. 3.28) and Sectoral Environmental
Action Plans (para. 3.29).
5.2    As agreed during negotiations, GOB/LGED has already taken the following actions to facilitate
effective project implementation:
(a)   In order to increase resources available to UPs for infrastructure development and
maintenance, GOB has: (i) reduced its share of market lease revenue from 35% to 25%
and allowed the additional 10% to go directly to the UPs, where it is generated; (ii)
allocated half of the land-transfer tax revenue, currently going to District Development
Committees, to the UPs; (iii) increased lease value threshold for UP-managed markets
from Taka 50,000 to Taka 100,000; and (iv) introduced more transparent procedures
and wide based competition in market leasing in the project area (para. 1.35);
(b)    LGED has appointed the DSM  Consultants (para. 2.45); appointed 8 community
participation experts (para. 3.2); appointed all key PIO staff (para. 3.7); and they have
also completed contract award for most first year works (para. 2.45); and



57
(c)    GOB has also appointed a land acquisition monitoring committee at LGD to facilitate
land acquisition and compensation (para. 3.28).
5.3    Agreement was reached during negotiations that the condition of credit effectiveness would be
as follows:
(a)    That all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GOB-SDC cofinancing
agreement should have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of
the IDA-GOB Credit Agreement (para. 2.41).
5.4    With the above conditions and agreements, the project would be suitable for an IDA Credit to
the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh of US$133.00 million equivalent on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 40 years.



58
Annex 1. 1
Page 1 of 18
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROAD AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SYSTEM,
AND MANAGEMENT OF MARKETS AND GHATS
1.    Introduction
Local Government is an important partner in the RRMIMP-2 for several reasons:
1.    Investment in rural infrastructure development continues to be a priority in Bangladesh.
Several Rural Development Projects (RDPs) such as the RRMIMP-2 provide this rural infrastructure.
This will increase the future requirements for maintenance for which responsibility lies to a great
extend with Local Government.
2.    In crder to make sure that the real needs of the rural population are addressed it is important to
associate Local Government and the local population from the planning stage on.  Responsible
management and maintenance of the rural infrastructure will improve when Local Government and the
population are involved early on in the process of provision of the infrastructure. Their participation
in planning and monitoring is therefore a necessary aspect of the project. Institutional strengthening
will improve the capacity of local governments to take up these tasks.
3.    The financing of infrastructure maintenance and investments is another aspect of the Local
Governments' responsibilities. The mobilisation of local resources, both to contribute to the cost of
infrastructure investment, and to finance the maintenance of certain types of rural infrastructure, is also
important in ensuring that infrastructure investment schemes meet local priorities, in developing a
sense of local ownership of the improved infrastructure, and in achieving sustainability of the
infrastructure investment. Finding ways to increase local resources will be necessary if the local
governments are to take up their responsibilities.
2.    Evolution of Local Government in Bangladesh
Local Government exists in the sub-continent since ancient times. In the Rig Vedas, the oldest Hindu
religious writings, dating from approximately 1200 B.C., forms of village self-government are
mentioned. Panchayets (village councils) seem to have existed since very early times even if their
functions, power and their place in the system of self-government vary considerably.
Under the early British rule a policy of curbing the powers of indigenous local institutions was
adopted, but by the end of the 19th century the need for responsible local government was recognised
and introduced by passing the "Local Self-Government Act of 1885". The "Bengal Village Self-
Government Act of 1919" introduced more representative local government bodies. The Union Boards
comprised two-thirds of elected members and one-third nominated, they covered 10 to 12 square miles
and a population of about 6,000 to 8,000 people. At the higher up level Local Board members were
chosen by open election and finally at the upper local government level, District Boards were for two-
thirds elected and one-third nominated.



59
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 18
After the partition of India in 1947, the Government of Pakistan retained the system of Union and
District Boards - the intermediate local boards had slowly died out - , this situation persisted until
1959.                                                                                  The
military junta which staged a coup d'etat in 1958 introduced an authoritarian government and
promulgated the "Basic Democracies Order". In contrast with earlier local government enactments,
this order was a central legislation having jurisdiction over the whole of Pakistan.  The local
government system consisted of four tiers in rural areas: Union Councils, Thana Councils,
District Councils and Divisional Councils. One-third of the Union Councils were nominated but in the
three higher up Councils the official nominees could represent up to 50 percent of the membership.
In 1972 soon after the emergence of Bangladesh all local bodies except the Divisional Council were
dissolved and administrators appointed to take over their functions. The Divisional Council was later
abolished. In 1976 the new government promulgated a Local Government Ordinance with three tiers:
Union Parishad, Thana Parishad and Zila Parishad. After Ershad took power in 1982, local
govermnent was reorganised with the Thana as focal point of administration. Responsibility for all
developmental activities at the local level was transferred to the Thana Parishads, renamed Upazila
Parishads. The central government retained direct responsibility for all major development activities.
After the political upheavals of 1990, the new democratic government which came to power in 1991
abolished the Upazila Parishads. Further legislation created a two tier local government with Union
Parishads and District Parishads. At the thana level a Thana Development Co-ordination Committee
was created and at the village level a Village Development Committee.
3.    The Actual Situation of the Union Parishads (UPs)
The Union Parishad is an elected representative body. Its functions have been defined in the Local
Government (Union Parishad) (Amendment) Act, 1993, which lists about 38 functions, the most
important of these concern:
* maintenance of security;
* adoption and implementation of development schemes;
* promotion of family planning;
* development and use of local resources;
* protection and maintenance of public property such as roads, bridges, canals, embankments,
ghats, markets, telephone and electricity lines;
* registration of births, deaths, blind people, beggars and destitutes;
* conducting of census of all kinds;
* etc.
In addition the Union Parishad is also charged with the planning function, the UP is required to
prepare Five-Year and Annual development Plans. Unfortunately most UPs do not have the required
staff to carry out this activity.
The structure and staffing of Union Parishads are detailed in Attachment 1.
In the area of infrastructure the relevant responsibilities of Union Parishads can be summarised as
follows:



60
Annex 1. 1
Page 3 of 18
* Implementation of earthworks and tree-plantation works (excluding FRB works) and of
other infrastructure improvement schemes with a value of less than Taka 50,000.
* Maintenance of Rural Roads - though LGED may maintain some important RR1 roads and
is also responsible for maintenance of Structures on Rural Roads.
* Maintenance, through the relevant management committee, of markets and ghats within the
Union.
The key weaknesses in the new system are of institutional and of financial nature
(a) institutional:
* Unions are at very low level - 4,450 Unions, average area 30sq.km., average population
25,000.
* Union Parishads have very limited staff capacity or capability, and much of the work must
be done by the elected members - yet at the same time progressively increasing demands are
placed on the Union Parishads.
(b) financial:
* The new procedures, responsibilities and revenue powers are not well understood, and
funds do not necessarily flow, nor are they necessarily used, as defined.
* There is a political reluctance for the elected members to collect revenue from 'their
electorate".
4.1    The Union Parishads' Financial Situation
4.1.1  Union Parishad Revenue Sources
Union Parishads have several sources of revenue:
4.1.2  Annual Revenue Budget from Central Government
This contributes towards the costs of honoraria for the UP chairman (33%) and
members (50%), and the salaries of the Secretary, Dafadar and Chowkidars -
in each case the GOB contribution is 50% (see Attachment 1).
4.1.3 Revenue Raised Locally
Following the re-organisation of local government, Union Parishads have the
power, since 1993, to raise revenue from the following sources:
* Annual tax on value of homesteads, or Union 'rate'.
* Taxes on professions, trades and callings.
* Taxes on cinemas, dramatic and theatrical shows, and other entertainments and
amusements of like nature.
* Fees for licences and permits granted by the UP.
* Lease money from specific, bazaars, ghats and ferries within the Union
boundaries as determined by the GOB.



61
Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 18
* Lease money from specific water bodies within the Union boundaries, as
determined by the GOB.
4.1.4  Income From Leasing of Markets. (See Attachment 2)
Union Parishads should receive 15% of the lease value of all markets in the
Union for market development and maintenance; and 40% of the lease value of
markets in the Union with a lease of up to Taka 50,000 in the Bengali Year
1400, for Union development.
4.1.5  Financing at Thana Level for Infrastructure Development
Following the abolition of the Upazila (Thana) Parishads in 1991, and the
abolition of revenue-raising authority at this level, Thana Development Co-
ordination Committees (TDCC) were formed - See Attachment 3. Certain funds
flow to Thana level, and decisions over the allocation of those funds is made
by the TDCC. The key feature of the TDCC is that its voting membership
comprises the Chairmen of the Unions in the Thana. However Thana-level
representatives of Central Government also sit on the TDCC, and the Member
of Parliament acts as an adviser - in practice these persons inevitably have
some influence over decisions.
There are two sources of funds at Thana level:
Income from Leasing of Markets. As per Attachment 2, the Thana receives
10% of the lease revenue from all markets for "market development and
emergency and disaster work" and 40% of the
lease value of all markets with a lease of more than Taka 50,000 in the Bengali
Year 1400 for Thana development.
The Development Assistance Fund for Union and Thana Development -
financed by GOB from the Annual Development Program and known as the
'Block Grant for Union and Thana Development'. See Attachment 4. In
1995/96 the total block grant is Taka 2,000 million, allocated between Thanas
using a formula that takes account of population, land area and 'backwardness'.
The average grant per Thana is Taka 4.4 million, of which up to 60% can be
used for transport and communications works including construction and
maintenance of Rural Roads, small bridges and culverts.
4.2    Union Parishad Revenues: A Survey
At present revenue generation by the Union Parishads is weak. A survey of 15 Unions (by the
Project preparation consultants) indicated that:
*     The average local revenue collected (excluding market leasing) was about Taka 55,000
per Union per annum (range from Taka 21,000 to 135,000). This equates to about
Taka 2 per person, or Taka 5 per adult.
*     The revenue actually collected was only 46% of that budgeted (range 24% to 76%).



62
Annex 1.1
Page 5 of 18
Union Parishads do not exploit effectively their powers to collect revenue from
business activities and leasing of water bodies, though they do collect such items as
village court and pound fees.
*     About 15% of the revenue collected is used to cover collection fees.
*     Various collection methods are used including salaried tax collector, collection agent
on commission basis, village police on commission basis, and collection by UP
members.
Other sources indicate that revenue collection by Union Parishads is typically less than
Taka 100,000 per annum.
The present annual income of a 'typical' Union Parishad is estimated below (though it
should be emphasised that there are considerable variations around this 'typical' situation) is:
Taka
Revenue from GOB                         50,000
Locally Collected Revenue                75,000
15% of Market Lease for Maintenance      30,000
40% of Lease Value of Small Markets      10Q000
Total                                   165,000
The Revenue from GOB must be used for the operating costs of the UP, and
the locally collected revenue will be consumed by this item (the estimated
staffing cost of a Union Parishad is about Taka 100,000), and by collection
costs. Thus, a typically UP may have Taka 40-50,000 to devote to
development activities. If the Union is in the RMP program (see below), Taka
10,000 to 15,000 will be allocated to this.
The picture in respect of funds available at Thana level is healthier. Income per
average Thana is estimated at:
Taka
40% of Leas of Larger Markets           700,000
10% of Market Lease of All Markets      200,000
Block Grant                           4,350,000
Total                                 5,250,000
If these funds are equally divided among the Unions (which is not necessarily
the case), then each Union has an allocation of about Taka 530,000 per annum.
4.3    Actual Union Parishad Involvement in Infrastructure Projects
Union Parishads are involved in certain infrastructure development projects because funds flow
to the Unions and/or because the Unions have to make financial contributions:
* The CARE Road Maintenance Project (RMP) which was implemented through the Ministry
of Relief, will transfer to LGED in 1995/96. The project monetises Canadian food-aid and



63
Annex 1.1
Page 6 of 18
channels funds to Union Parishads for routine road maintenance by crews of destitute
women. Under the revised system in LGED:
0 The project will operate in the majority of Unions (about 3,600) maintaining about
20km of road per Union. A new development is that some of the maintenance work
will be on earthen FRBs and the remainder on RRs, whereas previously it was all on
RRs.
0 Union Parishads will contribute 10% of the cost (Taka 10,000 to 15,000 per Union).
0 The GOB contribution will increase from 10% in 1995/96 to 15% in 1996/97 to 25%
in 1997/98.
* The LGED/CARE IFFD project finances structures and earthworks on rural roads.
Structures works are implemented by the Thana, with a 10% cost contribution from the
Union Parishad (this contribution can come eventually from the block grant). Earthworks,
with payment in food, are implemented through the Union Parishad.
* The WFP-supported GCCR programme is essentially implemented at Thana-level. However
the Union Parishad has to make a 5 % contribution to any small structures built on the roads
using monetised food-aid.
The new EC food-aided IFADEP includes provision for use of food-aid for maintenance of
improved embankments.
* There are also GOB food-for-work schemes, and a new GOB scheme for structures on
Rural Roads.
5.    Co-funding by UPs of Infrastructure Investments under RRMIMP-2
5.1   Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) Scheme
The UPs will participate in the investments at the rate of 10% of the construction cost
from July 1996 to June 1999 and 20% from this date on. Agreement has been reached
with LGED and CARE that LGED would co-ordinate between projects so that the
same figures are used on all projects. Discussion with beneficiaries showed an
enthusiastic response.
5.2    Market Improvement
The average market improvement will cost Taka 2.6 million, the most expensive about
Taka 4.5 million. A 10% local contribution is proposed, average Taka 260,000,
maximum Taka 450,000. The project will construct 136 markets in 97 Thanas, i.e. an
average of 1.5 markets per thana over a five year period. If the local contribution was
paid from the 40% of lease value of larger markets that is allocated to the TDCCs, this
would consume 12% of that allocation.



64
Annex 1.1
Page 7 of 18
5.3    Ghat Improvement
The average ghat improvement will cost Taka 1.7 million. A 10% local contribution is
proposed, average Taka 170,000. The project will construct 41 rural river jetties or
ghats over a five-year period.
6.    Recommendations for the Institutional Strengthening of UPs
Several actions are under way to improve the functioning of the UPs, in particular training by the
National Institute for Local Government (NILG) and the development of the Union Planbook and
training in its use by LGED.
The main problem encountered remains that not enough funds are available to hire qualified personnel
to assume the different tasks assigned to the UPs with the result that the elected members must execute
these tasks. The elected members are often not familiarised enough with these tasks and further
training will be necessary. The project in collaboration with the LGED training cell and NILG will
contribute to this training. As soon as more funds become available (see chapter 7) additional staff
may be hired and will have to be trained
As explained elsewhere community participation is an important issue in the project and the project
will assist UPs in this area with the help of the LGED community organisers.
7.    Recommendations for Increasing UPs' Financial Resources
The main bottleneck for an efficient functioning of the UPs is the scarcity of funds available.
The project will examine this issue and make recommendations in order to increase their resources.
Several areas of possible intervention have been identified.
1. Market Leasing
2. More Efficient Collection from Existing Revenue Sources
3. Transfer of Central Government resources to UPs
4. New Revenue Raising Measures
5. Contributions from Local 'Interest Groups
7.1    Market Leasing
Based on the analysis of market leasing in the project area, lease revenue is distributed
as follows:
Central Government: 35%
Thana-Level:        45%
Unions:             20%
The Union Parishads get only limited direct benefit from the markets within their
Unions.
Lease values are very substantially below the income potential of the markets. Surveys
indicate returns on investment to the leaseholder typically in excess of 200% per
annum.



65
Annex 1. 1
Page 8 of 18
The following measures are to be considered in relation to market lease revenues:
Allowing Union Parishads to lease larger markets, and to retain a greater proportion of
the revenue, would provide an incentive for them to push up lease values. The project
recommends as an up-front action the raising of the lease value threshold from Tk.
50,000 to Tk. 100,000. An in depth study to be executed under the project will
consider further raising of this threshold.
*     Another way to increase UP revenue from market leases would be to reduce the central
governments share and increase the UPs share. The project recommends as an up front
action to reduce the central governments share from 35% to 25% and allow the
additional 10% to go directly to the UPs;
*     Adopting measures to make the leasing process more truly competitive and reducing
collusion would generate substantial additional revenue. Based on the analysis of
market leasing in the project area, if leases were increased by 50% in the project area,
this would generate Taka 100 million per annum - which would cover routine
maintenance cost of 10,000km of Rural Road. Measures include:
- wider advertising of lease bidding (national level)
- monitoring of income from market to set "reserve value" for leases
- encourage NGOs to become involved in bidding for market leases
- tendering done by district level agencies
- appropriated user participation under agreed guidelines
7.2    More Efficient Collection from Existing Revenue Sources
Two direct approaches can be examined:
i)    Focus on collecting more revenue from beneficiaries of infrastructure investments:
c collect licence fees from bicycles, rickshaws, rickshaw vans
- generate revenue from motor vehicles that use the improved roads, e.g. bus stands,
parking fees at markets, mooring fees at ghats
* licensing of businesses that grow up around improved markets and along roads
ii)    General Increase in the Efficiency of Revenue Collection:
* Indexation
* Setting of Targets
* Contracting-Out Revenue Collection
* Incentives for Efficient Revenue Collection
* Collection Camps
Making matching grants available as in the SRR, Market and Ghat components may make tax
collection also more interesting to the UP authorities.



66
Annex 1. 1
Page 9 of 18
7.3    Transfer of Central Government resources to Ups
Another way to increase resources of UPs would be to transfer tax revenues directly to
UPs. An in depth study to be executed under the project will make recommendations in
this area.
As an up front action the project recommends that Government should allocate at least
half of the land-transfer-tax revenue going now to the Zila Parishad (district), to the
UP's generating this revenue, compared to none at present (average allocation from
this source is currently about 10 million Taka per district). Since land value increases
with improved rural infrastructure, this is a good way of levying user charges.
7.4    New Revenue-Raising Measures
Some suggestions have been made in this area.
*Convert disused land to ponds, and lease out
eLegitimise 'non-legal' use of land around markets
*Tree planting scheme on Rural Roads can provide income for UPs (fast-growing ipil-
ipil)
*UPs to collect marriage registration fee
An in depth study will be executed under the project and will make recommendations
in this area.
7.5    Contributions from Local 'Interest Groups':
Community participation work by the project preparation consultants indicates:
*  a willingness by market users to pay more for improved markets if the
improvements reflect their needs (participation in design)
*  willingness by communities to have system for paying for use of structures, e.g.
tolls.
People may even put up money in advance to contribute to investment schemes.
7.6   In Depth Study on UPs Financial Resources
As mentioned above an in depth study will be executed under the project and will make
recommendations on ways to raise UP resources. The terms of reference of this study
is given in Annex 2.12: "Outline Terms of Reference for Studies". (see also
Attachment 4).
8.    Additional Information
The following attachments provide additional information:
Attachment 1: Structural and Staffing of Union Parishad
Attachment 2: Thana Development and Co-ordination Committee Details
Attachment 3: Block Grant for Union and Thana Development
Attachment 4: Management of Markets and Ghats



67
Annex 1. 1
Page 10 of 18
ATTACHMENT 1:
STRUCTURE AND STAFFING OF UNION PARISHAD
Each Union consists of three wards. From each ward three members are directly elected to the Union
Parishad (Council) on the basis of adult franchise from the concerned ward. The Chairman of the
Union Parishad (UP) is directly elected on the basis of adult franchise from the whole of the Union. In
addition there are three reserved seats on the Union Parishad exclusively for women members, who are
elected by the nine ward members. Thus a UP comprises 12 members and a Chairnan.
Each UP has a full-time Secretary, appointed by the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of the concerned
District. In addition, each UP employs a Dafadar (a 'local' policeman) and Chowkidars (village
watchmen) who are appointed by the Thana Nirbahi Officer (TNO). Thus none of the UP staff are
directly recruited and employed by the UP.
The UP Chairman receives an honorarium (Taka 500 per month), one-third paid by the GOB and two-
thirds from revenue raised locally by the UP. The ward members receive an honorarium of Taka 200
per month, 50% paid by the GOB and 50% from revenue raised locally by the UP. The salary of the
Secretary is determined by the DC, and is in the range Taka 2,500 - 4,000 per month. 50% of the
salary of the Secretary, and of the Dafadar and Chowkidars, is paid by the GOB and 50% from
revenue raised locally by the UP. Thus the UPs have to contribute, from the revenues that they raise,
to the salaries of their staff and to the honoraria of the Chairmen and members. In practice these
expenditures are the first call on locally-raised revenue.



68
Annex 1.1
Page 11 of 18
ATTACHMENT 2:
THE THANA DEVELOPMENT CO-ORDINATION COMMITTEE DETAILS
Each Thana has a Development Co-ordination Committee (TDCC), whose functions are to:
* Review and co-ordinate project feasibility, area-wise priorities for development projects,
and other matters.
* Prepare development projects.
* Advise UPs in preparing and implementing rural development programs.
* Co-ordinate between locally prepared projects and national development programs.
* Advise on acceptance and implementation of development projects upon the request of the
UPs.
* Resolve inter-Union and inter-sectoral conflicts.
* Review the progress of development projects under implementation in the Thana.
The membership of the TDCC comprises:
* One person from amongst the UP Chairmen who acts as Chairman of the TDCC on a
rotating basis (the chairmanship changes for every meeting).
* The Chairmen of all Union Parishads of the Thana who are voting members of the TDCC.
* Three persons from the female members of the UPs in the Thana (nominated by the
government) who are voting members of the TDCC.
* Heads of different government offices in the Thana who are non-voting members of the
TDCC:
-     Thana Nirbahi Officer
-     Thana Engineer
-     Thana Health and Famnily Planning Officer
-     Thana Education Officer
-     Thana Agriculture Officer
-     Thana Co-operative Officer
-     Thana Livestock Officer
-     Thana Fisheries Officer
-     Thana Social Welfare Officer
-     Police Officer in charge of Thana
-     Thana Ansar and VDP Officer
-     Thana Food Controller
-     Thana Statistical Officer
-     Thana Rural Development Officer
The TNO acts as Secretary of the Committee. Members of Parliament whose constituency includes part
of the Thana act as advisers to the Committee.
The TDCC is important in respect of rural infrastructure development because it is responsible for the
allocation to projects of the Block Grant for Union and Thana Development, and for the allocation of
funds that flow to the Thana from market leasing.



69
Annex 1.1
Page 12 of 18
ATTACHMENT 3:
THE BLOCK GRANT FOR UNION AND THANA DEVELOPMENT
The nation-wide budget allocation for the Block Grant for Union and Thana Development was Taka
1,000 million in 1993/94, increased to Taka 1,500 million in 1994/95 and Taka 2,000 million in
1995/96. The allocation between Thanas is based on a formula with the following weights - population
50%, land area 25%, and backwardness 25%. On average, the budget equates to an allocation of Taka
2.2 million per Thana (equivalent to Taka 0.23 million per Union) in 1993/94, Taka 3.3 million per
Thana (equivalent to Taka 0.34 million per Union) in 1994/95, and Taka 4.4 million per Thana
(equivalent to Taka 0.45 million per Union) in 1995/96.
The guidelines for allocation of the Block Grant (Government Circular of 25th October 1993) are:
Sector                       Minimum          Maximum
a.    Agriculture and Irrigation                 15%               30%
Intensive crop production, seeds
program, pond and tank excavation,
social afforestation, fisheries, poultry
cattle, etc.
Small-scale water resources, drainage,
irrigation, small-scale flood control.
25%         60%
b.    Transport and Communication
Construction, repair and maintenance of
Rural Roads, small bridges and culverts.
10%              15%
C.    Physical Activities
Provision of water supply and sanitary
latrine.
d.    Education and Development
Repair and development of primary and
mass education institutions and supply of
teaching aids.



70
Annex 1. I
Page 13 of 18
The guidelines state that priority should be given to:
Completion of unfinished Rural Roads and maintenance of finished schemes.
*  Construction of bridges/culverts on Rural Roads, particularly where one or two structures
will give complete access along a road.
*  Projects which facilitate inter-village and inter-Union communication and bring benefits to
the people.
*  Road-side tree plantation.
Implementation of projects financed by the Block Grant (and from the Thana receipts from market
leasing) is through a Project Supervision Committee comprising the relevant Union Chairman, a
member of the concerned Department at Thana Level, an SAE nominated by the Thana Engineer, and
a concerned ward member of the UP. Infrastructure contracts for earthworks, for tree plantation and
for other works up to Taka 50,000 can be administered by the UP. Other infrastructure contracts are
tendered through a Thana Tender Committee and let by the LGED Thana Engineer. The relevant
Union Chairman, the TNO and the Thana Engineer sit on the Tender Committee. The UP is
responsible for visiting the schemes regularly and reviewing progress. Infrastructure works are
supervised by the Thana Engineer. Funds for works tendered by the Tender Committee do not flow
through the concerned UP accounts, they are managed at Thana level with approval for payment by the
TNO and the Thana Engineer.



71
Annex 1. 1
Page 14 of 18
ATTACHMENT 4:
MANAGEMENT OF MARKETS AND GHATS
1.    The Existing Situation
1.1    Market Leasing and Management
1.1.1. Leasing of Markets
A UP may lease one or more markets within the Union boundaries whose lease value does not exceed
Taka 50,000, based on the value in the Bengali year 1400. All other markets are leased by the Thana.
Leases are let annually, and this should be by sealed competitive bidding.
The distribution of revenue from market leasing is shown on the next table. 35% of the revenue is
transferred to central government, and 10% to the Thana. 15% is allocated to maintenance of the
concerned market. Until recently this was reduced to 5% if the market had been improved under an
RDP. However this has now been changed so that the allocation can be increased to 25% for an
improved market - this reflects recognition of the need to maintain the investment in the improved
markets. The balance of 40% is allocated as follows:
For small markets with a lease value up to Taka 50,000, to Union development activities.
For larger markets with a lease value of more than Taka 50,000, to Thana development
activities.
Market Leased by:
Distribution
Union Parishad          Thana
1.    Central government as land           5%                   5%
revenue
2.    Central government as                30%                  30%
market/bazaar revenue
3.    Union Parishad account for           15%                  15%
development and maintenance
of the market
4.    Thana account to be spent for        10%                  10%
market development and
disaster or emergency work in
the Thana
40%                 40%
5.    Remainder                          for Union           for Thana
Development      Development



72
Annex 1. 1
Page 15 of 18
Thus, only limited revenue from market leasing flows to the concerned UP, in particular because of the
division at a lease value of Taka 50,000. Unions obtain little direct benefit from important markets
within their boundaries.
1.1.2  Management of Markets
Each leased market is managed by a Union Market Management Committee (UMMC) which is
responsible for operation and maintenance. The membership of the UMMC comprises:
*     Union Parishad Chairman (chairman of the UMMC)
*     Three Union Parishad members, one from each ward, plus one female member, all to
be nominated by the UP.
*     One Government Officer in the Thana to be nominated by the TNO.
*     One Teacher from a High School in the Union to be nominated by the TNO.
*     The Union Tahsildar.
*     Two Representatives from shopkeepers and traders in the concerned market.
*     The Union Secretary who also acts as Secretary of the UMMC.
However it is reported that many of these UMMCs are not fully effective.
1.2    Ghat Leasing
The situation concerning the leasing of ghats is less clear, ghats can be leased out by:
. the RHD, this is the case when the ghats have been build by RHD and are being used by
ferry launches;
* the district (Zila Parishad), this is case for the majority of the ghats;
* the Union Parishad, in some isolated cases;
* and even in some cases by individuals who have invested in the construction of private
Ghats.
.
Sometimes when a ghat forms an integrated part of a market it can be leased out as part of the market
lease. The proposed project would require Government to set up ghat leasing procedures and ghat
management committees on the lines of UMMC's for the ghats to be completed in the first two years in
consultation with IDA. This process and procedures will be reviewed and refined further in the light of
the UP financial study is finalised.
2.    Weaknesses and Shortcomings of the System
Only limited revenue from market leasing flows to the UPs, in particular because of the lease value
threshold of Taka 50,000. Unions obtain little direct benefit from important markets within their
boundaries.
There is also considerable evidence to show that the present lease auctioning system is not fully
competitive and that cost recovery is very poor. A survey of 20 markets carried out as part of the
RRMIMP Upazila Financing Study in 1992 showed that on average the net income to the leaseholder
from leasing a market - ie. the toll revenue less the lease and the operating costs - was over 300% of
the amount paid to lease the market. In 65 % of the cases the return was more than 200%. Further, the



73
Annex 1.1
Page 16 of 18
return tended to be higher for the markets with lower lease values. This suggests that low lease values
to a considerable degree reflect uncompetitive lease bidding, rather than low income potential of the
markets. A feasibility study for an ADB-financed RDP found similar results. Based on data from eight
markets studied in detail under the RRMIMP SEM&E, the net income to the leaseholder is more than
250% of the lease value.
Many UMMCs do not function effectively. The defined membership puts the committee too close to
the UP; the functions and responsibilities of the committee cf. the market leaseholder are not well
understood; the leaseholder is considered to exercise the real power; the system for allocation of funds
to market maintenance is not fully understood and these funds do not appear to flow. one of the
consequences is that often the leaseholder of the market does not do the cleaning and routine
maintenance of the market. The UMMCs seem often to be powerless to enforce the conditions of the
contract.
3.    Economic Benefits and Cost Recovery from Market Improvements
3.1    Cost of Market Improvements
For project costing purposes, markets have been divided into three categories with different
improvement costs. Markets will be improved in two phases over two years. The costs of
improvement, and of routine and periodic maintenance, are:
Category A (small):  Improvement Cost:   Year 1, Taka 1.14 million
Year 2, Taka 0.76 million
Routine Maintenance: Taka 0.006 million per annum
Periodic Maintenance: Taka 0.036 million per 5 years
Category B (medium): Improvement Cost:   Year 1, Taka 1.56 million
Year 2, Taka 1.09 million
Routine Maintenance: Taka 0.009 million per annum
Periodic Maintenance: Taka 0.053 million per 5 years
Category C (large):  Improvement Cost:   Year 1, Taka 2.16 million
Year 2, Taka 1.44 million
Routine Maintenance: Taka 0.014 million per annum
Periodic Maintenance: Taka 0.074 million per 5 years
Assuming a 15 year life of the market after improvements are completed, with no residual value, and
an interest rate of 12%, the discounted investment and maintenance costs of the improved markets are:
Category A (small):   Taka 1.884 million
Category B (medium): Taka 2.630 million
Category C (large):   Taka 3.588 million
Market improvement costs (including daily cleaning) are borne by the leaseholder. Studies show that
average lease revenue of vendors is high enough to cover al remaining operation and maintenance
costs, and yield a positive financial return on the investment (though often less than 12%), making the
investment sustainable. The large hygienic, health and other social benefits and economic benefits to



74
Annex 1. 1
Page 17 of 18
the poor vendors and farmers further reinforce this investment. Various measures to increase lease
revenue would be considered under this project.
4.    Recommendations for Improving Management and Cost Recovery.
(see also para. 1.35 in SAR)
As in other countries, markets are potentially an important source of income for the development
budget of local government. But as indicated above, UPs get only part of the income (40%) from the
smaller markets and only a fixed lump sum (Tk. 20.000) from the markets with a lease above Tk.
50,000, the main income from the markets goes thus to central and thana level government. This
regulation does not create enough of an incentive to motivate UPs to develop their markets into
dynamic income generating operations. This is probably one of the main reasons for the ineffectiveness
of the Union Market Management Committees. Another reason for their ineffectiveness is probably the
fact that members of this committee are not rewarded for the work they do in this commission.
A number of measures could be taken to increase the part of the income going to the UPs in order to
motivate them into developing the markets, such as: increasing the limit of Tk. 50,000 to Tk. 100,000
or Tk. 200,000 and decreasing the part of central government. But it could also be argued that well
functioning markets are of prime importance for the country and that therefore important incentives
must be given to UPs to efficiently manage and develop their markets. This could be done by letting
them keep all the income generated by the markets and even by providing them with matching grants to
increase proportionally the income generated by the markets. These measures would provide powerful
incentives to UPs to develop these markets and would at the same time provide the UPs with an
important source of revenues. The argument that the income of markets must be distributed to all
unions, also to those that do not have important markets, should be put in the context of the global
resources of the UPs - most of the income of UPs comes from central government anyway and it is
very well possible to compensate UPs that do not have an important market, without taking income
away from UPs that do have an efficient income generating market.
Other measures to improve revenue from markets would be to increase the tolls paid by the market
vendors. Tolls (unit rates per bag, basket or quantity of produce sold) are now the same for all markets
in each district and are fixed by the districts authorities without differentiating between improved and
non-improved markets. Market revenue after development goes up through increased turn-over of
trading even with same unit rate. GOB does not favour unit tariff increase, as this would discourage
the poor vendors to use the unhygienic road side markets thus losing many social benefits. There are
also complaints that the leaseholders often charge more than the official tariffs from the vendors.
The higher toll would translate into higher revenues for the UPs only if the leasing system is fully
competitive, as mentioned above this is not the case and certain measures could be taken to improve
the situation such as the use of more transparent procedures and wide based competition to reduce
collusion in market leasing, with better information sharing arrangements, publicity arrangements,
tendering done by district level agencies and appropriate user participation under agreed guidelines.
Therefore it is recommended for the project to focus on developing the management capability of
market/ghat committees for operation and maintenance. The 'information sharing' approach will
contribute to this but the project will also include:
-     definition of procedures for cleaning and maintenance, removing responsibility from
the leaseholder;



75
Annex 1.1
Page 18 of 18
training of and advice to committees in market/ghat management, including the
preparation of maintenance plans;
monitoring of the flow of funds for, and effectiveness of, maintenance.
However, specific attention will be given to market leases as a source of funds for local revenue
generation. There are two aspects:
i)    the present allocation of market lease revenue gives only limited incentive to UPs to
generate the maximum funds from their markets and to develop those markets. The
present re-distributive mechanism to allocate some of the revenue from a large market
in a particular Union to other Unions in the Thana through the TDCC, is excessive (in
simple terms for markets with a lease revenue of more than Taka 50,000, that part of
the lease revenue which is retained at local level is allocated to the TDCC rather than
the UP);
ii)    at present the potential value of market leasing is not realised, and many of the
leaseholders make large profits - it is variously estimated that the total income from a
market is 3-11 times, and 5 times, the lease value. This is a complex socio-political
issue in the context of rural Bangladesh (one large NGO, BRAC, has become involved
in the leasing of markets but recognises that it is fraught with difficulties). However
practical possibilities have been identified:
-      leasing by users' collectives;
*     increasing the visibility and transparency of the lease bidding process.
*     monitoring of market toll revenue as a basis for assessing lease bid values.
The project includes a number of up-front actions as an interim measure before Board presentation of
the project, and further follow-up measures within about 18 months after Board presentation in the
light of further studies (funded under the project).
(a) The up front actions related to market/ghat leasing and management are given in para. 7.1 of this
annex.
(b) In addition to the above interim measures, a study on improving revenue mobilisation by UP's
including better systems for ghats and markets management and leasing should be completed by about
December 1997 (a year after IDA Board date), and its recommendations reviewed and implemented in
consultation with IDA/SDC before about June 1998. The study should examine, among other things,
(i) the case for and feasibility of increasing unit toll rates of markets after they are developed, and (ii)
suitable procedures for management of ghats with user participation, preferably on the lines of the
UMMCs.



76
Annex 1.2
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROAD AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAUNTENANCE PROJECT
INSTrnlUTONAL DEVELOPMENT OF
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGIEERING DEPARTMENT
1.    Introduction
LGED originated from a small cell in the Local Government Division (LGD) during the late
1970s. This led to the formation of the Works Programme Wing in 1982, and of the Local Government
Engineering Bureau in 1984, which was upgraded to a Department in 1992. LGED's task load has
increased at a very rapid rate during this period of growth. Its tasks have been widened and it now
implements a large portfolio of donor-supported and GOB financed programs. Its responsibilities
include construction and maintenance of FRBs and rural roads, drainage structures and mnarkets; small-
scale water resources schemes; construction of schools and cyclone shelters; food-aided rural
infrastructure programs; provision of technical supervision and advice to local government bodies; and
infrastructure works with pourashavas (secondary towns). Annex 1.4 gives more information about
road and market related rural infrastructure development projects being executed by LGED.
Most of the donor-financed infrastructure projects implemented by LGED include institutional
development activities. In addition:
*      sThe Institutional Support Project (ISP) of the SIDA/NORAD financed Rural Employment
Support Program (RESP) provides long-term institutional support to LGED through three units
- the Training Unit (TU), the Technical Design and Management Unit (TDMU) and the
Physical Planning and Management Unit (PPMU). The third phase of ISP was appraised in
September 1995 and the report finalised in December 1995.
*     In parallel with the RDP-18 project, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is financing three
technical assistance components - Training, Maintenance Management, and the Management
Capability Strengthening Project (MANCAPS).
The aim of the first phase of MANCAPS is to carry out an institutional and management
analysis of LGED, and make recommendations for its future management development, focusing on
four issues -institutional management, institutional organisation, financial management and engineering
management. MANCAPS has prepared a draft action plan for the management strengthening of
LGED'. The MANCAPS report concludes that:
*  LGED is effective and successful in the implementation of the tasks assigned.
* Its strengths lie in teamn work, field orientation, dynamic leadership, hard work, informal decision
making, and emphasis on training and management of its external relations.
* LGED is now reaching maturity and entering a new phase in its development, where it is important
to consolidate and even further strengthen the organisation.
Draft Action Plan - Directions in Management Development of LGED. MANCAPS, March
1995.



77
Annex 1.2
Page 2 of 5
*  LGED should become the most efficient delivery channel for rural and semi-urban infrastructure
development.
* With tihe rapid increase in work-load most LGED personnel are heavily loaded, and this has led to
a number of ad-hoc organisational arrangements. The current organisation has large management
spans, matrix organisational structure, and complex inter-action with ISP.
The MANCAPS study therefore recommends:
*  A comprehensive re-organisation of LGED to reduce the management span, including the
introduction of a 'circle' level of management between the 64 Districts and headquarters.
* The formation of seven departments at headquarters each headed by a Superintending Engineer,
and the creation of a second Additional Chief Engineer post.
* The integration of ISP functions into the established LGED structure including the creation of an
LGED Design Cell to prepare manuals, specifications and design standards and to provide
technical supervision and co-ordination of the work of design consultants.
* The strengthening of the planning, and management information systems (MIS) functions including
monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and the preparation of a MIS master plan.
The existing LGED organisation structure and the organisation chart proposed by MANCAPS
are attached (Attachments 1 and 2). The IDA/SDC appraisal mission agreed with many of the
recommendations of MANCAPS and, in order to contribute to the management strengthening of LGED
a number of them will be implemented and financed under the project.
The RRMIMP-2 will finance 7 positions as incremental staff:
- The position of a second Additional Chief Engineer in charge of Design, Planning, and Monitoring
and Evaluation (this position is referred to in the organisation chart as Additional Chief
Engineer - 1)
* The position of Superintending Engineer (Design, Quality control and Research and Development)
to head the Design Cell. under the second Additional Chief Engineer.
* Two Assistant Engineer positions (Roads and Structures) in the Design Cell.
* The positions of a Transport Economist and a Monitoring & Evaluation expert in the Monitoring
and Evaluation cell under the second Additional Chief Engineer
* The position of a Sociologist (Participation and Land Acquisition) in the Planning Cell under the
second Additional Chief Engineer.
This will contribute to institutionalising functions now taken up on a temporary basis under
Technical Assistance provided by the ISP. These positions will be funded from the GOB revenue
budget from the fifth year of the project on. This will be done in such a way as to avoid conflict or
duplication with the next phase of the ISP, and SIDA/NORAD have welcomed this participation in the
strengthening of the institutional structure of LGED.
The staffing of these positions will provide the capacity to implement institutional and human
resource development activities under the project in respect of structures and road pavement design
standards, land acquisition policy, participation in rural infrastructure development, and SEM&E.



78
Annex 1.2
Page 3 of 5
ADB intends to fund the implementation of MANCAPS recommendations related to improved financial
management and internal auditing. The MANCAPS recommendations concerning the reduction of the
span of control through more delegation of responsibilities and the creation of regional offices (circles)
headed by Superintending Engineers, is in the process of being implemented by the Government. IDA
will seek Government's commitment on implementing main MANCAPS recommendations (see para.
2.32 in SAR).



79                                                Annex 1.2
Page 4 of 5
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF LGED
Chief
Engineer
Addl. Chief
Engineer
Superintending Engineer (Planning)
Superintending Engineer (Project)
Superintending Engineer (Training)
Superintending Engineer (Admin.)
*Superintending Engineer (Maint)
*Project
Directors
*Executive                                      Executive Engr.-64          EngerEo (HQ)   -4   Assistant Chief
Engineers                                       (in each District)    .Exudve nsr(Main. HQ) -I  Engineer (XEN) -I
*Assistant          (in each District)        Thana Engineer-460    AL EnSiner (HQ)    4
Engineers           Asstt. Engr (Mech.)-22     (in each Thana)       AssL Enginer (Maim. HQ)-1
(in each gecater Dist.)                             n
District Level                               Thana Level
Executive Engineer              1            Thana Engineer                     I
Assistant Engineer              I            SAE (Construction)                 I
Assistant Engineer (Mech)       I             SAE (Maintenance)                 I
(in 22 Greater Districts)                    Draftsman (SAE)                    1
SAE                             I            Store Keeper                       I
Labratory Technican             I            Accountant                        I
Upper Division Assistant        I            Surveyor                          I
Accountant                      I            Work Assistant                    4
Steno Typist                    I            Electrician                       I
Vehicle Driver                  I            Office Assistant                  I
Truck Driver                     I            LDA-cum-Typist                    I
Road Roller Driver              I            Accounts Assistant                I
Service Staff                   I            Chowkider                         2
Each District:                 12            Service Staff                     2
Each Thana:                     19
* The Posts are under the Development Budget



PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT (LGED)
Engineer  Engineer            ngineer    if Engiengneenierrua   eores                                             Amnsrto
As(t.                                      ( Internal
Chief Engineer                                                                              Fac Audit Unit
S    Management                                    A (          SecretariaT
Support                  Support
|EAdditonal    P   o                                                                   Additional 
EChief Engineer -1                                                                        Chief Engineer - 2
Superinterding        Supernt[ending  ||Supenintending  |||Sulperintending  ||Supezntlending  | S| perintendin                  ;upeintndn
ronitoring &D               e Planning  Design, Quality          FFW & Schools         Maintenance        Human Resources       Administration
,  ----                       - XEN, Project        -XEN, Bridges          -XEN, FFWV (2)       - XEN                 - XEN                -Senior Finance
Planrning           & CGs                      ,C(Maintenance)                         I                   Officer
- XEN Physical           I                      -AE (2)                                   AE                   OCEN Rank)
Project                             Planning & MappinT    AE                                       -nXEN (Mech.)                                       o
Directors                          l      BCo ordniator                                                                                           -Finance Officer C
GIS (A E)- 3       -Hydrologist                                - AE (Database)           Tann
8Ptis          O     Socio-Economist       8XEN Schools                          8 Dtic                                           -Budget Officer
Expert    bXEN, WR Schemes    h                  b
- SFME                -Sociologist                                AE                                                                FAflS
- XEN                 -Econornist         A_                                               atoect                              -Xen, Persorel
I                                    -XEN, QC, R&D_ PD
AE              - XEN, Liaison Ministry,    I                    Reae                                                          AE (Database)
ERD, PC, Donots      AE                       PrjctI
-XEN, Donor      - Assst. Engineer                                                                                            -AE Genera
Pro7ects          Database POanninc    7Technic     es                                                                         AdOfeics on
_AE GoB          - Fx-Post               AdtCentra Comnputer
& TA Projects     Evt4uation                                                                                                   Unit, CPoolD
System Analyst
S.E.        E.         .                    S.E.            S.E. ,             S.E.                S.E.              S.E.                S.E. 
0   DhakaCirde    | ChigagongCirde || Barisal Circle  || Sylhet Circle    LM |Mmnsingh Cre     Rangpur Circle  |    ashahi Cirde ||KhlaCre |
|8 District Ofcs||8 Ditict Offices  ||8 District Offices ||8 District Ofie0   8 District Offices     8 District Offices ||8 District Offices ||8 District Offices |It
heddby XEN     headed by XEN      headed by XEN      headed by XFN      headed by XN        headed by XEN  ||headed by XEN  ||headed by XEN  |J 
I                 I                  I                   I-_  .l  .         Ia,,              I         . .       I        . r       I        .         9
7 Thana O7 M                   Offices  7Thana Offc      7       hna OcdT || 7 T7 Thana  Offlces   | 7                             1 7 Thane OffidbIT
S~~~~~~~~-- I_ LyT                                     I I .a    y*            ,^w  ys            Ne  ysl       headed byT    hd  bT ||hdeyTE ||  headed bylTE   |e



81
Annex 1.3
Page 1 of 13
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED
FINANCING OF RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND
MAINTENANCE, AND LIST OF ON-GOING PROJECTS
This Annex presents (a) the list of projects managed by LGED, (b) estimate of resources
needed for rural infrastructure development and maintenance over the next 10 years, (c)
estimate of available resources, (d) share of foreign/domestic resources, and (e) estimate of
future Government-budget allocation needed for rural roads maintenance.
(a)    List of projects managed by LGED
1.    LGED, as an efficient and successful agency, is entrusted with most of the
rural infrastructure (rural roads and markets) development and maintenance
projects funded by foreign agencies and the Government. These projects are
generally designated as Rural Development Projects (RDPs) in a series, as they
are designed mainly to implement the rural development strategy which the
Government announced in 1984 (see para. 1.37 and 1.43 in the SAR). Some
of these projects have other titles, and have components other than rural
infrastructure (such as minor irrigation, schools, etc.) Table 1 of this Annex
presents the current list of these ongoing projects, their total costs, annual
allocation for the most recent year, and rough estimate of the value of rural
infrastructure components in each project. The Table shows that the total cost
of the portfolio is about 41.5 billion Taka (about US$1 billion equivalent), and
annual budget allocation (from domestic and foreign funds) about 5.4 billion
Taka; annual allocation for the infrastructure component is about 3.8 billion
Taka in 1995/96.
2.    In addition, there are food-aided rural infrastructure projects, as listed in Table
2 of this annex; this amounts to about 1.4 billion Taka in 1995/96.
(b)    Estimate of Resources needed for rural infrastructure development and maintenance
3.    The Rural Infrastructure Strategy prepared by IDA/LGED  (April 1996 -
Report No. BDSR-15732) estimates future resource requirements for
developing existing rural roads and markets over the next 10 years, as well as
the increasing maintenance costs which would go up as the road network is
upgraded. These are based on an ambitious scenario, and a "realistic scenario"
taking into account mainly implementation capacity. If funds are available, the
realistic scenario can be implemented, but this will require some increase, over
existing level, of annual development and maintenance funds available from
foreign and local sources. Tables 3 and 4 indicate the estimated resource
requirements for development (improvements) and maintenance, respectively,
under the two scenarios.



82
Annex 1.3
Page 2 of 13
4.    The assumptions relating to Table 3 (development) are given below:
(i)    The present FRB network is 8,403 km. An additional 5,500 km of
FRB will be created from existing Rural Roads I (RR1) roads, due to
recent increase of classified growth center markets from 1,400 to
2,100. However, the size of the RR1 and Rural Roads 2 (RR2)
networks will remain unchanged because one can expect some increase
in the total length of roads, with upgrading from Rural Roads 3 (RR3)
roads.
(ii)   Ambitious Scenario:
*     All existing and additional FRBs upgraded to full bitumen-
surfaced standard, including bridging all gaps, replacing all
damaged structures, and repairing all "poor" structures.
*     20% of RR1 roads upgraded to WBM standard or equivalent
(for simplicity, it is assumed that they are all upgraded from
earthen standard).
*     All gaps on RR1 and RR2 roads bridged, all damaged
structures on RR1 and RR2 roads replaced, and all "poor"
structures on RR1 and RR2 roads repaired.
*     All unimproved Growth Center markets improved.
*     All jetties serving Growth Centers improved.
This equates to the following scope of work:
Upgrading of FRB to BC standard:        13,178 km
Construction of FRB structures:        45,897 m
Upgrading of RR1 to WBM standard
(or equivalent standard):              6,535 km
Construction of RR structures
(excluding repairs):                   232,274 m
Construction of improved markets:       1,890 markets
Construction of improved jetties:      700 jetties
The total investment cost is Taka 89,662 million (US$2,242 million).



83                        Annex 1.3
Page 3 of 13
(iii)   Realistic Scenario:
*     80% of existing and additional FRBs upgraded to full bitumen-
surfaced standard, including bridging all gaps, replacing all
damaged structures, and repairing all "poor" structures.
*     10% of RR1 roads upgraded to WBM standard or equivalent
(for simplicity, they are all upgraded from earthen standard),
including all structures works.
*     60% of gaps on remaining RR1 and RR2 roads bridged, 60%
of damaged structures on remaining RR1 and RR2 roads
replaced, and 60% of "poor" structures on remaining RR1 and
RR2 roads repaired.
*     50% of unimproved Growth Center markets improved.
*     All jetties serving Growth Centers improved.
This equates to the following scope of work:
Upgrading of FRB to BC standard:        10,542 km
Construction of FRB structures:         36,718 m
Upgrading of RR1 to WBM standard
(or equivalent standard):              3,268 km
Construction of RR structures
(excluding repairs):                   143,300 m
Construction of improved markets:       945 markets
Construction of improved jetties:      700 jetties
The total investment cost is Taka 62,732 million (US$1,568 million).
5.    Table 3 shows that to achieve targets under the realistic scenario, which will
substantially improve the condition of rural roads and markets to good
standards, a total amount of about 63 billion Taka (in 1996 prices) would be
needed; with an average annual development expenditure of about 6.3 billion
(about US$155 million equivalent).
6.    Projected Maintenance Expenditures:  Table 4 shows estimated increase in
maintenance requirements during 1996-2006, for both scenarios. For the
'realistic scenario'. it shows that average annual maintenance for this period
would increase from 1.3 billion Taka in 1996 to about 2.9 billion Taka in
2006, which implies: annual increase of 0.16 billion Taka for maintenance, and
a cumulative annual average maintenance over the first 5-years of 1.78 billion
Taka, and a cumulative average maintenance over 10 years of 2.1 billion Taka.



84
Annex 1.3
Page 4 of 13
(c)    Estimate of currently Available resources for rural infrastructure
7.     The main sources of funds at present (for development and maintenance) are
discussed below. They total an average (based on the last two years) of Taka
6.3 billion. About 54% of this is from foreign sources, and 46% domestic
resources (see para. 9 below). It is expected that because of the good design of
these projects focused on key rural infrastructure and their poverty-orientation,
efficient management, and the continuing high poverty level of the country,
this level of foreign assistance would continue in future. The present annual
development spending is about 5.4% of the country's annual development
budget (foreign and domestic).
(i)    Block Grant for Union and Thana Development
The nationwide block grant from Government's budget for FY94/95
was Taka 1,500 million, and for FY95/96 Taka 2,000 million. The
conditions applied to this Block Grant state that 25%-60% should be
allocated to the "transport and communications sector - roads, bridges,
culverts, etc". Thus, the maximum funds available from this resource
for rural transport infrastructure works are:
FY94/95:      Taka 900 million
FY95/96:      Taka 1,200 million
However, different Unions and Thanas will have different priorities for
use of the Block Grant.  Therefore, it is considered reasonable to
estimate the resources available for rural transport infrastructure on the
basis of the median figure, i.e., 42.5% of the Block Grant. This gives
resources of:
FY94/95:      Taka 637.5 million
FY95/96:      Taka 850 million
Note: Some infrastructure projects require local contributions from the
Union Parishads, and the main source of this local financing is the
Block Grant. Care has been taken to avoid double-counting in the
estimates provided in this note).
(ii)    LGED Revenue Budget for Maintenance
Governments' regular revenue budget allocation for rural road
maintenance (all spent through LGED) maintenance is as follows:
FY94/95:      Taka 550 million
FY95/96:      Taka 650 million
100% of this allocation is utilized for maintenance works.



85
Annex 1.3
Page 5 of 13
(iii)   Donor and Government Financed Rural Infrastructure Projects (RDPs
and others)
The Donor and Government Financed Rural Infrastructure Projects,
excluding those using international food-aid, are listed in Table 1. The
percentage of the total budget allocation applied to physical
infrastructure works has been estimated in Table 1 on the following
assumptions:
i.     RDPs, and similar donor-supported projects which emphasize
roads or roads and markets, 70%;
ii.    donor-supported projects in other sectors, but which include
roads, 30%; and
iii.    GOB-financed projects, 90%.
These estimates are intended to exclude any local contributions from
the Block Grant, in order to avoid double-counting. Based on this
analysis the Project Funds for rural infrastructure works, excluding
food-aid, are:
FY94/95:       Taka 3,328 million
FY95/96:       Taka 3,835 million
(iv)   International Food-Aided Infrastructure Projects
There are five international food-aided rural transport infrastructure
projects in LGED  at present, which are listed in Table 2.  This
includes the CIDA funded Road Maintenance Project (RMP) which
focuses on rural roads maintenance through employment of destitute
women in the villages, and it is important part of the rural road
maintenance program.
(v)    Summary of Available Resources (development and maintenance)
The estimated resources available for rural infrastructure (development
and maintenance) are summarized below:
Item                        1994/95          1995/96
1. Block Grant for Union and Thana Development  637              850
2. Revenue Budget for Maintenance               550              650
3. Food-Aid                                     1,417           1,420
4. Project Funds                                3,328           3,835
Total                        5,932            6,755
The average annual figure over the two financial years is Taka 6,343 million.



86
Annex 1.3
Page 6 of 13
8.     Road Maintenance Resources
Based on the above analysis and using the 1995/96 data, the funds available for
road maintenance can be estimated as follows. (These exclude maintenance of
markets, which are generally fully covered, by markets own lease revenue).
Block Grant:                  Taka 42.5 million
LGED Revenue Budget:          Taka 650 million
Food Aid (RMP):               Taka 455 million
UP Contribution to RMP:       Taka 45.5 million
Project Funds:                Taka 120 million
Total:                        Taka 1,313 million
This estimate is derived as follows:
(i)    5 % of Block Grant for transport infrastructure is assumed to be
used for maintenance in addition to UP contribution to RMP;
(ii)    100% of LGED revenue budget for maintenance;
(iii)    Food-aid is the RMP expenditure funded through CIDA;
(iv)    UPs make a 10% matching contribution to the RMP from their
own revenue;
(v)    Project funds. - it is estimated that, out of the 1995/96 ADP
allocation to infrastructure development projects (including
donor financed projects) of about $150 million, about 2% is
spent on maintenance.
These amounts totaling 1.3 billion Taka are adequate to meet
present maintenance needs, but has to go up significantly to
meet future needs (Para. 6). Of the current total maintenance
expenditure, 575 million Taka (about 44%) is from foreign aid.
(d)    Share of foreignldomestic resources
9.     With reference to the 1995-96 fund allocations, the share of domestic resources
is estimated below.
Government allocations for fully GOB-funded projects listed in Table 1  1175
Government-contributions to other foreign-funded projects (assumed     408
10%)in Tables I & 2
Infrastructure exp-from Block Grant for Union/Thana Development        850
(see para. 7)
Government-budget for maintenance (LGED) (see para. 7)                 650
Total domestic fuinds                                                  3083
(This is about 46% of the
total exp. of 6755 million
Taka estimated in para.7)



87
Annex 1.3
Page 7 of 13
10.    Separate  foreign/domestic  shares  for  development  and  maintenance
expenditures (1995-96) are given below:
Development         Maintenance            Total
Domestic Funding           2345                735                 3083
(43%)               (56%)               (46%)
Foreign Funding            3097                575                 3672
(57%)               (44%)               (54%)
Total Funding              5442                1313                6755
(100%)              (100%)              (100%)
11.    With reference to these figures, the following observations can be made:
(i)    The 43 % domestic share for development for rural infrastructure is
higher than the domestic share in total development budget. The share
of domestic contribution with Annual Development Program (ADP) for
1995-96 was 37%.
(ii)    Domestic share for maintenance is even higher (56%). Overall
domestic funding for the sector is about 3 times the total maintenance
expenditure required (about 1315 million Taka, see para. 6). The
share of foreign expenditure in maintenance is largely from RMP
which is a well-designed poverty-targeted, food-aided program which
may continue under RRMIMP-2 project, it is being agreed with
Government that they would provide alternative funds to sustain
maintenance, in case there is reduction in RMP allocation in future (see
also para. 13).
(iii)   The domestic funds for development in 1995-96 (pre-election budget)
was about 500 million Taka more than in the previous year budget.
(iv)   Annual development allocation for rural roads/markets (5.4 billion
Taka) in 1995/96 is about 5.4% of the country's total development
budget (covering foreign and domestic resources).
12.    Annual Future  Needs (development and  maintenance) under Realistic
Scenario: Annual future resource requirements (using 5-year maintenance
average) would be 8.1 billion (see paras. 5 and 6); as against this, the current
level of resource availability is about 6.8 billion (54% foreign, 46% domestic;
see para. 9); this indicates the need for about 19% increase in annual
resources to meet future needs if Bangladesh is to meet the realistic 10-year
targets proposed in the Strategy Paper. The implementation capacity exists for
this level. The increase in financial resources needed would seem justified in
view of the proven major economic and poverty alleviation impacts of such
investments.



88                         Annex 1.3
Page 8 of 13
(e)    Estimate of minimum Government budget allocation needed for future maintenance
(during the project period)
13.   As noted in para. 5, as the road network is improved, the future maintenance
requirements will increase from about 1,300 million Taka in 1996 to about
2,900 million Taka in 2006. The current maintenance needs are fully met from
various sources, including 650 million Taka from Government's budget for
rural infrastructure and maintenance allocated to LGED (para. 8). The
minimum level of Government budget allocation needed during the project
period, discussed in SAR para. 2.17, is estimated on an approximate basis as
follows:
Annual increase needed during the 10-year period to reach "realistic scenario"
targets: (2,900 million - 1,300 million = 1,600/10 = 160 million Taka).
Assuming only 80% development targets would be met (because of resource
constraint), the increase in maintenance level will be 128 million Taka. Of
this, 25% increase is expected from UP's resources and the rest about 96
million Taka from increase in budget allocation. Adjusting for inflation, an
annual about 100 million Taka (about US$2.5 million) is assumed as minimum
increase needed from the 1995-96 level of 650 million Taka (about US$16
million): 750 million Taka in 1996-97; this implies 850 million Taka (US$21
million equivalent) in 1997-98, and thereafter at an annual increment of
US$2.5 million equivalent to the last project year (2001-2002).



TABLE I  DONOR AND GOVERNMENT FINANCED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
Managed by Local Government Engineerhig Department (LGED)
.   -.    ,-    ,,  ,-  -,  ., ...  .,  ..  ..   ..  -,  ,.  ., .... ..  ..  ...,  . ,,..- . ,     , ,   ,.,...., ........_...........,.......   . .   "'" ''      ''  '...A...lo..        ..  ..CI..
.... -,, ....:--.''. ' '' ' ' '.'''-. .' ': ''''''" ' ' ' ' '' ' '- '   ' .' ': -:,'''' ": ''~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~.... ......  . ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~.     -'"',''','',''''"'-''.":........    '       ..''':'' ..:''''''
1. RDP - 3 (Phase 2)                                IDB       93/94-97/98     577.0         120.0          186.5              0.7          84.0         130.6
2. RDP-4                                        SIDAtNORAD   90/91-95/96     1680.6          246.3         220.0              0.7         172.4         154.0
3. RDP-6                                            SDC       88/89-95196     411.1           80.0          73.1              0.7          56.0          51.2
4. RDP - 7 (RRMIMP-1)                           IDA/SDC/KfW  88/89-95/96     3489.5          500.0         638.5               0.7        350.0         447.0
5. RDP-8                                        EC/Netherlands  88/89-95/96   984.7          130.0         135.0               0.7         91.0          94.5
6. RDP - 13                                         ADB       88/89-95/96    3796.1          740.0         477.6               0.7        518.0         334.3
7. RDP - 14                                         GTZ       90/91-95/96     375.8           60.0          69.5               0.7         42.0          48.7
8. RDP- 16                                         Danida     93/94-9899      730.0          210.0         145.0               0.7        147.0         101.5
9. RDP-18                                           ADB       92/93-98/99    4093.0          641.9         680.0               0.7        449.3         476.0
10. Model Rural Development Prqect                   JICA      92/93-95/96     818.4          240.0           2.0              0.0           0.0           0.0
11. Flood Rehabiitation Project                   ADB/Japan   89/90-96/97     3500.7          985.2         580.5              0.7         689.6         406.4
12. Cyclone Rehabilitation Project                   Saudi     93/94-96/97     471.0           90.0         130.0              0.7          63.0          91.0
13. Cycklne Rehabilltatlon Project                  OPEC       94/95-97/98    1000.4            0.0         115.0              0.7           0.0          80.5
14. RRMIMP-2 (Early Implementation)                IDA/SDC     95/96-00/01    6079.6            0.0         125.0               0.7          0.0          87.5
15. Bhola Irrigation Project                         ADB       92/93-96/97     228.9           88.0          85.0              0.3          26.4          25.5
o0X



PrOojec                       Donor        buration    Estlir6atedI    s4l96 ~j    ISN          %  tagtsU~n5~T.mlin  vlal
tf i 0 0    0   p6<   :;   j  ;;0Xnor0   0  u0000  EdtZ  0t i;S,u;C)0 0it0 -90:00  }; ;i -#.00 : | ::41..................._....-
(Tk. ml-lion)  CTk . mih ion)    TMili         W               1841          189
16. Char Development & Settlement Project           Netherlands   94/95-96/97    246.6           40.0           35.0               0.3          12.0           10.5
17. North-East Minor Irrigation Project               ADB        92193-95/96     617.4          189.0          327.9               0.3          56.7          98.4
18. Netrokona Agriculture & Irrigation Project        IFAD       94/95-96/97      170.2          12.5           73.6               0.3           3.8           22.1
19. Rural Development Project, Greater Dhaka          Saudi      96/97-98/99     457.5            0.0            0.0               0.0           0.0            0.0
20. Development of Important Roads and Markets        GOB        93194-95/96     2366.4         500.0          400.0               0.9         450.0          360.0
21. Construction of Roads/Bridges/Culverts in Priority Areas  GOB  93194-95/96   3350.0          80.0          400.0               0.9           72.0         360.0
22. Monahardi-Kapasia, Kakonhat-Mundamala Road Project    GOB    94/95-95/96       56.6           0.0           20.0               0.9            0.0          18.0
23. Important Roads and Markets Development, Phase 2   GOB       94/95-96/97     1850.0           0.0          300.0               0.9            0.0         270.0
24. Construction of Bridges & Culverts with Low-Cost   GOB       94195-96/97     1390.0           0.0           50.0               0.9           0.0           45.0
25. Important Roads and Markets Development, Phase 3   GOB       95/96-97/98     2500.0           0.0          100.0               0.9            0.0          90.0
26. Construction of Physical Infrastructure in Hill Tracts  GOB  92/93-95196      357.1           50.0          36.3               0.9           45.0          32.7
TOTAL                                                                      41598.6         5002.9         5405.5                          3328.2        3935.1
/1 Annual Development Program allocation, including foreign aid and domestic funds.
/2 Rough estimates
C>.
Ox



TABLE 2  FOOD-AIDED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
Managed by Local Government Engineering Department (LGED)
- ~~ ~                                            -          -tt     oxX-uao      *   :    -   56 %oB   :     1 -         b
Ptojeet  DonQr   D*sratlon   eslIm.ted  ~~4/96     9O    DA of SOuciket      'ijds (i.mfho0  OVUJAb
:::.  -  -::  -  -   --   ::  -   :  - :   ---   :   :  :   :  -  :     .  -    -   . .    .....   ... ..-..    ..    ....:1t   
CO.t.   AI~c*tion    Ilocatio   ror jnrsr4ur  o~lif*   iiilt6.Work$,:::
-   - -. ' -     ', '-, .'  '  .. '  .   ...    - - -' :.':  ..-',..'...,'-,.''.-.
(in mIiai  (Tk~ m il linh): (in. millifon) :::::Wo rk  1949W959
1. Growth Centre Connecting Roads      WFP    Continuing    1798.5         410.7      219.4             0.93          382.0        204.0
Programme (GCCR)
2. PL480 Bridges and Culverts          USAID  93/94 - 97/98   1185.4       200.0       190.0            0.93          186.0        176.7
Programme
3. Road Maintenance Project            CIDA   95/96 - 97/98   2232.4       650.0      650.0             0.70          455.0        455.0
Phase IlIl (RMP)
4. Integrated Food for Development (IFFD) USAID  94/95 - 98/99   5520.8    636.0       636.0            0.56          356.2        356.2
Rural Road Network Component
5. Integrated Food Assisted Development    EC    94/95 - 98/99   1118.7     50.0       300.0            0.76           38.0        228.0
(IFADED) GCCR Component
Total                                                    11855.8       1946.7     1995.4                         1417.1        1419.9          "
1. Estimated Cost of GCCR is for the current phase of the programme.
2. Prior to 95/96 the RMP was in the Ministry of Relief. 1994/95 budget assumed same as 95/96.
;4



92                                                    Annex 1.3
Page 12 of 13
Table 3 : Projection of Future Investment Resource Requirement
(for improving existing network over 10 years: 1996-2005)
it.   ,,.', ~~~~~~~ni
g ~~~~~~~~~~miB 
1.  FRBs                                                               Uperade to BC
1.    Existing FRB Roads                  BC              630 km
(8,403 km)                         WBM              153 km          2.3/kn                              351.9                    281.5
HBB            1136 km           3.0/km                            3408.0                   2726.4
Earth          6484 mIn          33/km                           21397.2                  17117.8
1.2   AdditionalFRB .Roads                BC                95 km....
(5,500 kIn)                        WBM               36 km          2.5/km                               90.0                     72.0
HBB             205 km           3.21km                             656.0                    524.8
Earth          5164k m           3.5/km                           18074.0                 14459.2
Repair (Poor)
Construct
(Darnaaed/eays)
1.3   Structures, Existing FRBs           Good           25803 m                                                    -                        -
Poor            9434 m          0.012/m                             113.2                      90.6
D-aged          6841 m          0.100m/r                            684.1                    547.3
.                     . Gap              ~~~~~~~~~~~22499 mn  0.100O/rn                       2249.9                   1799.9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........,..                  .,,Ga....... |O  00m............. ....I....  ...........9  .........................  ...................
1.4    Structures, Additional FRBs   Good                8475 mi                                                   -                        -
Poor            5886 m          0.012/m                               70.6                    56.5
Danaged         3813 m          0.100/im                            381.3                    305.0
12744 m          0.100/in                           1274.4                  1019.5
Subt tai;' ' -- - - ~~~~~~~~............. .. ...............   ..  ....................... .............. ............................... .........   .... ...................... ........ ... .
Subtotal, FRB                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48750.6   39000.5
2.  Rural Roads (R1+R2)                                               Unerade to WBM
2.1  RRI Roads                            BC               565 km                                                   -
(32,674 km)                        WBM              215 kmI
HBB            1221 km                                                    -                        -
Earth        30673 km            2.5/km                           16337.0                   8168.5
........................................................... .........................................................  .....................  ........................................   .................... .........
Repair (Poor)
Construct
(Damafed/gaps)
2.2   RR1 Structures                      Good            50357 min- 
Poor           34975 m          0.006/m                             209.9                    134.3
Daaged         22655 m          0.070/m                            1585.9                   1015.0
. ...        Srcue...524...7/n................................ ........... G  .. . .           75724 m 0070m   5300.7                  3392.4
2.3    RR2 Structures                    Good           38064 m
Poor           25516 m          0.006/m                             153.1                      91.9
Damaged        24855 m          0.070/m                            1739.9                  1,043.9
...                    ..................     p.        109041 m           0.070/m                            7632.9                  4,579.7
........................................................... ................... ..   ...................  ........................................    ...........................
Subtotal, RR                                                                _                        32959.4                  18425.7
3.   Growth Centre Markets                                                 ImDrove
Improved                 210
.~~~ru~~~n.proved ~~~~~~1890                             2.8/market                          5292.0                   2646.0
........................................................................ ..................... .....................  ........... .............................   ...............................
Subtotal, Markets                                                                                     5292.0                   2646.0
4. Jetties
......Un  rove                                                  700         3 8 set                            2660.0                  2660.0
Subtotal, Jetties                                              _______________                        2660.0                   2660.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                         89662.0                  62732.2
A:\BARWELL5



TABLE 4: PROJECTION OF ANNUAL RECURRENT MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS
Annualized routine and periodic maintenance costs
:~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~ A na  un       cos :::   .. .~            I   ::       ::.:. A :b    :  r:::   rlt:.::.:
:ua- Unit CoS:A:b:::ous:Sc-nario                                               Reabtic -c--...........ena.i i9 -- ,0::-
.ll;aflt  t ::-...      of R.Murrent  : a::y    Atnal Rnet                   ti Recurrt:   :t                          n
....a -                                Mai-tan c::                     Mainteac:ot :                      an nc MSt
-: m:          (Tk. million)                                   T      i 11   -. -                        n
1. FRBs
1.1 FRB Roads      BC        0.1100            630 km          69.30         13,903 km       1,529.33        11,267 km         1,239.37
WBM       0.1500            153 km         22.95              0 km           0.00             38 km            5.70
HBB       0.1500           1,136 km       170.40              0 km           0.00           268 km            40.20
Earth     0.0130          6,484 km         84.29              0 km           0.00          2,330 km           30.29
Subtotal                                                  34U.94                          1,529.33                          1,315.56
1.2 FRB Structures   Good    0.0018          25,803 m          46.45         95,495 m          171.89        83,252 m            149.85
Poor      0.0018          9,434 m          16.98              0 m            0.00          3,064 m             5.52
Subtotal                                                   63.43                           171.89                            155.37
2. RURAL ROADS
2.1 Roads (Rl + R2) BC       0.0900             614 km         55.26           614 km           55.26           614 km            55.26
WBM       0.1300            251 km          32.63         6,786 km         882.18          3,518 km          457.34
HBB       0.1250           1,511 km       188.88          1,511 km         188.88          1,511 km          188.88
Earth     0.0060         75,159 km        450.95         68,624 km         411.74         71,892 km          431.35
Subtotal                                                  727.72                          1,538.06                          1,132.83
2.2 Structures     Good       0.0012         88,421 m         106.11        381,187 m          457.42        269,416 m           323.30
Poor      0.0012         60,491 m          72.59              0 m            0.00         22,797 m            27.36
Subtotal                                                   178.69                          457.42                            350.66
Total                                                    1,316.78                         3,696.70                          2,954.41
NOTE: Maintenance of markets not included, as they are generally fully financed by market tease revenue.
0 w



94
Annex 1.4
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
IMPACT OF RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
1.    The IFPRI Study
A major study on the impact of rural infrastructure development in Bangladesh, carried out by the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) with the Bangladesh Institute of Development
Studies (BIDS) was published in 19901. This study surveyed 129 villages which were classified as
"developed" and "undeveloped" based on an infrastructure index which considered access to transport,
markets, schools, banks, modem inputs, electricity, and local administrative offices. From this sample
16 villages, seven "developed" and nine "undeveloped", were selected and detailed household surveys
conducted. The study found that, comparing the two categories, the villages with "developed"
infrastructure were significantly better off in a number of areas:
*     Farmgate prices of rice were 7 % higher.
--    Fertilizer prices were 14% lower and fertilizer utilization was 92% higher.
105% more land was irrigated and 71% more sown with HYV seeds.
Household income was 8% higher.
*;    The wage rate was 12% higher.
There were particular benefits for the poor - wage income of landless laborers was 36%
higher, and the proportion of female workers was 135% higher.
2.    Impact of FRB Road Improvements
There is increasing emphasis on socio-economic monitoring and evaluation (SEM&E) activities in the
Rural Development Projects implemented by LGED. Through the SEM&E activities of different
projects, a data-base of time-series information on the effect of FRB improvements on traffic (traffic
level; modal mix; and frequency, reliability and cost of transport services) is progressively being
accumulated. It is these changes in traffic, resulting from the road improvements, that generate the
longer-term economic and social impacts of the investments.
The evidence from the SEM&E work, including that carried out under the RRMIMP, is that FRB road
improvements to all-weather standard result in a growth of motorized and non-motorized vehicular
traffic and some transfer of pedestrian trips to more efficient motorized and non-motorized modes, a
reduction in transport charges and an increase in the total movement of goods and people. Provision of
an all-weather road tends to stimulate the operation of bus services (except on short roads) and auto-
rickshaw (tempo) services. Use of rickshaw services also tends to increase, but rickshaw traffic grows
at a slower rate than motorized services. However the use of bullock carts on the FRBs tends to
decline.
R. Ahmed and M. Hossain. Developmental Impact of Rural Infrastructure, Bangladesh.
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in collaboration with Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies (BIDS), 1990



95
Annex 1.4
Page 2 of 5
The FRB road investments under the ongoing RRMIMP project have already had a demonstrable socio-
economic impact, as a result of increased traffic volumes, a switch to more efficient modes of
transport, and reduced transport costs. Based on the SEM&E survey of nine completed project roads in
the first year of project completion (1995):
*     Total traffic volumes (passenger-km and tonne-km) on the nine roads increased by 120% for
passengers and 300% for goods. This data set includes one road where there was a huge
increase in goods traffic volume. However, comparing the median values passenger traffic
volume increased by 100% and goods traffic volume by 140%.
*     Average daily motorized traffic on the nine roads increased by 154%. The major increases
were in buses (from zero to 14 vehicles per day), motor cycles (178% increase) and auto
rickshaws (100%). Non-motorized traffic increased by 90%, the major increase being in
passenger rickshaws and rickshaw vans (197%). Bullock cart traffic decreased by 54%.
*     Average unit transport costs decreased by 69% for passengers and 48% for cargo. The benefits
to rickshaw operation of a smooth running surface are shown by the fact that the transport
charges of rickshaw van operators reduced by nearly 40%.
The same study also showed that along improved roads compared to non-improved roads, net farm
income is about 9% higher, cropping intensity 1-2% higher, and fertilizer and pesticide use
respectively 4-5% and 34% higher. The overall economic return from  the road improvement
investments is about 26% based on partial benefits of transport cost savings.
The report of findings from the monitoring of the first phase of RDP-14, the GTZ-financed Tangail
Infrastructure Development Project, was published at the end of 19942. Its findings on the impact of
improving FRB roads to bitumen-surfaced standard are as follows:
*     Within one year of FRB improvement, transport charges decreased significantly. Average
passenger charges dropped by 18.7%, and average cargo charges by 23.3%. The most
significant decreases in charges were for passenger rickshaws and rickshaw vans.
*     On two FRB roads where improvements had been initiated at the start of the monitoring study
and were essentially complete by the end of the study, the total number of road users (based on
average daily traffic) increased by 43% over a period of about one year, the number of non-
motorized vehicle trips increased by 85% and the number of motor vehicle trips by 135 %. The
number of pedestrian trips declined. Regular bus services had commnenced on one of the roads.
These traffic growth rates can be compared with an average of 12.7% normal annual growth of
non-motorized traffic over a ten-year period, and 7.0% for motor vehicles, derived from a
control road where traffic counts were taken in 1984 and 1994.
Performance monitoring of RDP-6 roads commenced with monsoon season traffic counts in 1993,
which are repeated twice per year. The latest findings3, derived from four rounds of traffic counting,
are that:
2          Final Report on Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation Carried Out During Phase I of the
Tangail Infrastructure Development Project. November 1994.
3          Performance Monitoring of RDP-6, Preliminary Analysis of Rounds 1,2,3 and 4. June 1995



96
Annex 1.4
Page 4 of 5
The market improvements result in a reduction in crop spoilage of 2-4% of the value of the
crops marketed due to better protection from the elements and faster sales turnover. This is
sufficient to generate a 12 % EIRR from the investment in market improvements.
*     Between 1992 and 1994 there were increases in all eight markets in the number of sellers
attending (41%), the total turnover of the markets (48%) and the number of permanent shops
(18%). In four
of the eight markets the market turnover increased by substantially more than the number of
sellers. However in three of the markets the situation was reversed, with increased competition
among sellers to market their goods.
*     Between 1992 and 1994 the auction lease value increased in seven of the eight markets, by an
average of 35%. Toll collection increased by an average of 70%.
The findings from the monitoring of the first phase of RDP-14 in respect of the effects of improving
facilities at Growth Center markets are as follows:
For the three markets improved, auction lease value has increased by nearly 100% compared
with 28% for Growth Center markets in the District as a whole.
Land prices in the vicinity of the markets have increased by more than 180%.
The average daily number of market visitors has increased by 22%.
The total cargo brought for sale has increased by 24%, with an increase in estimated weekly
market turnover of 71 %.
The monitoring of the RDP-4 project examined the changes that resulted from improvement of Growth
Center markets. The main conclusions are that:
The number of permanent shops doubled between the benchmark and final surveys, the total
number of shops increased, and they were open for more days per week, indicating that the
Growth Centers are developing as commercial trading centers.
The number of visitors to Growth Center markets increased by 31 % on market days and 23%
on non-market days.
It should of course be noted that the significant increases in the level of economic activity in improved
markets result from the combination of the improvements to the market and the better road access, ie.
from the integrated development of the rural transport and trading network.
4.    Employment Generation
An important impact of rural infrastructure development projects is on direct and indirect employment
and income generation. It is estimated that, up to and including the 1994/95 Financial Year, 15 rural
infrastructure projects implemented by LGED have created some 70 million person-days of direct paid
employment on implementation of project activities. This does not include the direct employment
created on the various food-for-work programs implemented by LGED.
Longer-term employment and income-generation opportunities are created from the stimulus that the
improvement of infrastructure gives to agricultural production and to other economic activities:



97
Annex 1.4
Page 4 of 5
*     The market improvements result in a reduction in crop spoilage of 2-4% of the value of the
crops marketed due to better protection front the elements and faster sales turnover. This is
sufficient to generate a 12% EIRR from the investment in market improvements.
*     Between 1992 and 1994 there were increases in all eight markets in the number of sellers
attending (41 %), the total turnover of the markets (48%) and the number of permanent shops
(18%). In four
of the eight markets the market turnover increased by substantially more than the number of
sellers. However in three of the markets the situation was reversed, with increased competition
among sellers to market their goods.
*     Between 1992 and 1994 the auction lease value increased in seven of the eight markets, by an
average of 35%. Toll collection increased by an average of 70%.
The findings from the monitoring of the first phase of RDP-14 in respect of the effects of improving
facilities at Growth Center markets are as follows:
*     For the three markets improved, auction lease value has increased by nearly 100% compared
with 28 % for Growth Center markets in the District as a whole.
*     Land prices in the vicinity of the markets have increased by more than 180%.
*     The average daily number of market visitors has increased by 22 %.
*     The total cargo brought for sale has increased by 24%, with an increase in estimated weekly
market turnover of 71 %.
The monitoring of the RDP-4 project examined the changes that resulted from improvement of Growth
Center markets. The main conclusions are that:
*     The number of permanent shops doubled between the benchmark and final surveys, the total
number of shops increased, and they were open for more days per week, indicating that the
Growth Centers are developing as commercial trading centers.
*     The number of visitors to Growth Center markets increased by 31 % on market days and 23 %
on non-market days.
It should of course be noted that the significant increases in the level of economic activity in improved
markets result from the combination of the improvements to the market and the better road access, ie.
from the integrated development of the rural transport and trading network.
4.    Employment Generation
An important impact of rural infrastructure development projects is on direct and indirect employment
and income generation. It is estimated that, up to and including the 1994/95 Financial Year, 15 rural
infrastructure projects implemented by LGED have created some 70 million person-days of direct paid
employment on implementation of project activities. This does not include the direct employment
created on the various food-for-work programs implemented by LGED.
Longer-term employment and income-generation opportunities are created from the stimulus that the
improvement of infrastructure gives to agricultural production and to other economic activities:



98
Annex 1.4
Page 5 of 5
*      The RDP-14 monitoring study concludes that more than 2,700 permanent jobs have been
created indirectly as a result of the project infrastructure investments, most of them in the
expansion of transport operations but also in newly-established shops and workshops along the
improved FRB roads and near the improved markets.
The RDP-4 monitoring study estimated that, in addition to short-term direct employment on
project activities, long-term employment in the project area had increased by about 14% (the
majority in the non-agricultural sector) over the three-year period of the survey from 1989
to 1992. While the infrastructure investment had contributed to this, it was difficult to isolate
its impact from that of other initiatives in the area.
5.     Macro-Economic Analysis
As part of the IDA/LGED Rural Infrastructure Strategy Study7, macro-level analysis of the rural road
network has been carried out. There is a close association between the spatial distribution of good rural
roads across the country and the distribution of agricultural production densities, showing that
Govermment's past policies under the Strategy for Rural Development Projects, and the resulting
regional investments, have led to a generally rational distribution of resources.
An analysis of the relationship between agricultural productivity and the condition of the rural road
network has been carried out, using a nationwide District-level regression model. The key findings are
as follows:
*      With statistical significance at the 5 % and 1 % confidence levels respectively, the densities of
good Feeder roads and paved Rural Roads have positive productivity elasticities. The analysis
suggests that an increase of 10% in the density of good Feeder roads is associated with an
increase of almost 1 % in agricultural productivity. The same increase in the density of paved
Rural Roads is associated with a 0.5 % increase in agricultural productivity.
*      Analysis using the density of all rural roads does not yield significant results, indicating that it
is the condition, not the extent of the network that is important.
*      There is a negative relationship between agricultural productivity and gap density (measured as
the number of gaps per km of FRB and Rural Road).
7           SAI Infrastructure Division of the World Bank in association with LGED. Bangladesh Rural
Infrastructure Strategy Study. December, 1995.



99
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS I1PROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SELECTION CRITERIA, IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES AND
TIME FRAME FOR PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
A.    Procedures Used in the Selection of FRBs, Growth Centre Markets and Ghats
1.    The FRB, market and ghat investment schemes have been selected (as listed in Annex 2.2)
using the 6-step procedure which is summarised below:
1.1    An inventory was prepared of all FRB roads and Growth Centre markets in the project
area. The inventory of Growth Centres included those designated in the early 1980s
and the additional markets designated as Growth Centres in 1993. In preparing the
inventory a strict definition of FRBs eligible for consideration under the project was
applied, based on two criteria:
(a) All FRBs should connect to a Growth Centre located remote from the RHD road
network;
(b) No Growth Centre should have more than one FRB road connection.
1.2    The inventory of FRB roads and Growth Centres was then screened to prepare ong
lists of 'possible' investment schemes excluding all FRBs and markets included in the
RRMIMP and RDP-6 projects', all other FRBs improved to good, all-weather bitumen-
surfaced standard under other programs, and all Growth Centre markets under the
Pourashava Parishad or at serious risk from erosion.
1.3    Using the long-list of possible schemes as the starting point, participatory meetings
were organised in each of the 97 Thanas in the project area, attended by local
representatives including Union Parishad members, NGOs and beneficiaries. At these
meetings the local representatives were requested to discuss, reach a consensus on, and
rank, their priorities for FRB and Growth Centre markets. They were also asked to
identify priority ghats for improvement in the Thana. The meetings were facilitated by
the preparation consultants' staff, but the consensus and decisions were reached by
local representatives through open debate. During this field work consultations were
also held with TNOs, LGED staff and some Members of Parliament.
1.4    The locally-defined priorities were used to prepare short-lists of 'probable' FRB
upgrading and Growth Centre market improvement schemes. The short-lists were
based on indicative targets for the extent and distribution of the physical investment
schemes across the project area, aimed at achieving approximately equivalent coverage
at project-end in relation to the infrastructure needs of the Northwest Region and the
Three FRB roads which RDP-6 will upgrade only to HBB standard were included for possible bitumen-
surfacing.



100                               Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 8
Greater Dhaka Area. In preparing the short-lists the greatest weight was given to the
locally-defined priorities determined during the participatory meetings. However some
adjustments were made to reflect rational selection criteria, as follows:
(a)    Most FRBs less than 2km long were excluded;
(b)    A few FRBs were added where particular requests had been made and where
initial field investigations indicated that the roads were important;
(c)    Growth Centre markets located very close to existing, improved markets were
excluded;
(d)    Some priority was given to complementing existing RRMIMP investments by
short-listing unimproved Growth Centre markets located on FRBs improved
under the RRMIMP; and
(e)    Priority was given to short-listing both FRBs and the markets that they serve,
but in some cases FRBs were short-listed without the accompanying market.
1.5   a)     All short-listed FRBs were subjected to detailed economic appraisal, based on
initial inventory surveys to prepare estimates of improvement costs, and on
traffic surveys to provide the data for estimation of economic benefits. The
final list of selected FRBs was made based on the results of the economic
analysis, rejecting all roads with an EIRR of less than 12% and selecting those
with the highest EIRRs.
b)     Economic and physical data was collected from the field for all short-listed
Growth Centre markets and for all ghats identified locally as priorities. The
final list of selected Growth Centre markets was derived from the short-list,
primarily based on the locally-identified priorities but:
(i)    Eliminating any markets located on FRB which do not provide, and
which will not be upgraded under the project to provide, all-weather access;
(ii)    Choosing between alternatives where adjacent Thanas had prioritised
markets located very close together - in such cases the more important market
was chosen based on the economic data collected; and
(iii) Eliminating certain markets where the field data raised serious doubts
about viability of improvement, most commonly where the available land area
is very small, or where the market has very low lease value, attendance and
turnover.
c)    The final list of selected ghats was made, from the priorities identified by local
representatives, as follows:
(i)    Since most of the priority ghats serve markets, all ghats serving
Growth Centre markets selected for improvement under the project or



101                                Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 8
improved under RRMIMP were included except where the utilisation of the
ghat is very low; and
(ii)   The more important of the remaining ghats were selected, importance
being defined in terms of throughput of boats and use for river transport rather
than simply for cross-river ferry services.
1.6   The TDCCs were subsequently requested by LGED, through the TNOs, to confirm
their agreement with the selection of the investment schemes which was subsequently
confirmed after voting by each TDCC. Such formal approval is required under
Government's procedures.
B.    Criteria for Selection of New Components or Revision of List of Selected ComDonents
2.    FRBs. Growth Centre Markets and Ghats
2.1    General: It is recognised that the FRB roads, growth centre markets and ghats for
inclusion in the project have been pre-selected during the appraisal process, as listed in
Annex 2.2, and as discussed in Section A above. The following selection criteria
would be used in case new FRB roads, growth centre markets or ghats are to be added
to the project either as new items or as replacement of existing locations in the list. It
is expected that such changes in the list in Annex 2.2 would be made only during mid-
term review or later, unless otherwise agreed. The selection criteria are listed below:
2.2    General Procedure: FRBs, growth centre markets and ghats shall be: (i) selected and
prioritised through participatory meetings involving interested parties, such as main
user groups, NGOs, UP members and TDCC members, held in the Thana where the
proposed works will be carried out; and (ii) endorsed by the Thana Development Co-
ordination Committee (TDCC) as a priority project for improvement in the Thana.
2.3    UP's Financial Contribution:  UPs should contribute a minimum of 10% of the cost
of growth centre markets, other rural markets and river ghats. UP's contribution for
SRRs will range from 10-20%, as detailed in Section 3 below.
2.4    Criteria
(a) FRBs (selected for full development)
i. The FRB must be at least 2 km in length and be the most important road
connection between a Growth Centre Market and the Road and Highways
Department Road (RHD) network.
ii. The FRB must connect a Growth Centre Market, which is located remote from the
RHD network, to a RHD road, which is passable throughout the year by motorised
vehicles.



102                              Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 8
iii. The FRB must connect a Growth Centre to the RHD network in one direction,
unless a specific and acceptable justification is provided to connect the growth
centre in two directions.
iv. The FRB investments must provide a minimum 12% Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR), based on benefits to existing diverted and generated traffic.
(b)    Growth Centre Market
L. The market, which must have an annual lease value of at least Taka 75,000, has to
be located in a Growth Centre so designated by the Planning Commission of the
Borrower and be at least 5 km from an improved Growth Centre Market.
ii. The market must not be subject to any serious risk of erosion by river action and
must have access to a road, which is passable throughout the year by motorised
vehicles, or to a confirmed road development under other projects to be
implemented within a year.
iii. The relevant authority must confirm that the land required for the improvement
works is publicly owned and is not the subject of any ownership dispute.
iv. The local government body must confirm its commitment to contribute 10% of the
cost of the market improvements.
v.  Market vendors and other user groups should be consulted in preparing designs,
and should be given active role in market management committees.
vi. The market management committee and appropriate Government agencies should
take measures to increase lease revenue following improvements, to allocate
sufficient funds for maintenance, and should agree to provide to LGED and IDA
follow-up data on market use, revenue and project benefits.
vii. Borrower will use participatory processes involving market vendors and other
users to improve structure and operation of existing market management
committees, and to improve market leasing system to enhance revenue.
(c)    Ghats
L. The ghat has to be located on a perennial waterway and be used as a landing place
for river transportation, not just for cross-river ferry services.
ii. The ghat must directly serve a Growth Centre Market or connect to a road network
at an important point for the transfer of goods between water and land
transportations.
iii. The relevant authority must confirm that the land required for the improvement
works is publicly owned and is not the subject of any ownership dispute.



103                                 Annex 2.1
Page 5 of 8
iv. The local government body must confirm its commitment to contribute 10% of the
cost of the market improvements.
v. Country boat owner/operator associations (such as BCBOA) and other user groups
should be consulted in preparing designs, and should be given active role in ghat
management committee.
vi. The ghat management committee and appropriate Government agencies should take
measures to increase lease revenue following improvement, to allocate sufficient
funds for maintenance, and should agree to provide to LGED and IDA follow-up
data on ghat use, revenue and project benefits.
vii. GOB will: (a) cause ghat management committee to be established for all
developed ghats modelled on market management committee;  (b) ensure that
operation of these ghats and markets will have adequate user participation.
3.    Selection of Structures on Other FRBs (i.e. FRBs not selected for full development)
Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, for purposes of Part A of the Project, the
selection of structures to be constructed on other FRBs shall be carried out in accordance with the
procedures and criteria set forth below.
3.1    General Procedure:
LGED, with the assistance of the preparation consultants, and in consultation with
user groups and TDCC, will select the structures to be included in this sub-component,
and prepare the annual construction program, for approval by the IDA prior to project-
start. Each scheme will comprise construction of one or more structures on a particular
FRB road. The annual construction program will be drawn from the selected schemes
but, in the same manner as for other components where schemes have been pre-
selected, some modifications to the pre-selected schemes could be made under mutual
agreement between LGED and IDA.
3.2    Criteria:
(a)    Each proposed structure must either bridge an existing gap or replace a poor or
damaged structure on an FRB road, all as defined in the LGED road inventory.
It could also be new structure for improving cross-drainage between farming
areas.
(b)    The FRB  road on which the proposed structure or structures will be
constructed must (i) serve a Growth Centre Market located remote from the
FRB road network and (ii) be the most important road serving the Growth
Centre Market.
(c)    The construction of the proposed structure or structures must result in a
continuous FRB alignment between a Growth Centre Market and the Thana
HQ/RHD network which, at the minimum, is passable by motor vehicles in the
dry season and by non-motorised transport throughout the year.



104                                 Annex 2.1
Page 6 of 8
(d)    Each proposed structure that exceeds 30 linear metres in span shall be subject
to an economic appraisal and a minimum 12% EIRR.
4.    Selection of Structures on Rural Roads (SRR)
4.1    General:      The SRR Component will comprise the construction of small structures
to span existing gaps, replace damaged structures or provide additional drainage
structures to allow new cross-drainage where required on RR1 and RR2 roads ( also
R3 roads if
local communities prefer them), together with ancillary earthworks on the roads. Each
scheme will comprise of a length of RR1/RR2/RR3 road plus the structure(s) to be
constructed on it. All schemes will be selected through participation of the local
government bodies, rural communities and other user groups - using the 'Information
Sharing' and 'Users Input' approaches (see annex on community participation), and all
formal proposals for investment will be submitted to the project by the Union
Parishads. The proposed scheme should meet the following criteria:
4.2    General Criteria:
a)    The proposed scheme must increase the connectivity of the Rural Road network, i.e.
the implementation of the scheme should result in a continuous alignment of road,
passable by wheeled vehicles, and serving a rural area and connecting it either to an
important local place or to a higher level of the road network which is also a
continuous alignment passable by wheeled vehicles. Alternatively, it could be for
improving cross-drainage where an existing road embankment blocks such drainage.
b)    Schemes will be limited to rural drainage structures (culverts and small bridges not
exceeding 20 m length) on rural roads, ancillary earth works on rural roads (as
approaches to the structures or elsewhere on the rural roads) will be included for an
amount of 15% of the cost of the drainage structures.
c)    The proposed scheme must not be scheduled to be taken up under any other program.
d)    This will be a national program.  All Union Parishads (UPs) will be allowed to
participate on a first come-first-served basis, according to the date of registration. The
participating UP has to deposit an initial Tk.10,000 into LGED SRR account for
registration. LGED will undertake to provide the completed structure within one year
of registration. This guarantee will apply only to the first 1500 structures registered for
each year, because of possible capacity limitations, and further there may also be a
limit on the total number of structures per UP.
e)     After registration, LGED  will inspect the selected site and make drawings and
estimates and discuss with the UP choices of types and cost estimates. After selection
by the UP, LGED Thana Engineer will invite bids from small contractors and eligible
labour contracting societies (LCS)/Labour Groups, and select lowest evaluated bidder
following usual procedures acceptable to IDA.  Earthworks outside the structure



105                                 Annex 2.1
Page 7 of 8
approaches will be awarded to LCSs/labour groups of poor women/landless labourers
based on negotiated contracts and unit rates under procedures acceptable to IDA.
f)    Before award of contract, the UP must deposit the remaining contribution (above the
initial deposit) to LGED's SRR account. UP's total contribution will be 10% of total
costs (structure plus 15 % added as ancillary earth works for road improvements/spot
improvements) during the first three years of the project (tentatively from July 1996 to
June 1999) and 20% for the next (last) two years of the project. UP's who deposit
funds for registration before December 31, 1998 (allowing some lead time for
construction period), will be eligible for the 10% rate, and those who register after this
date will have to pay at 20% of costs. Government will contribute 10% when UP
contribution is 10%, so that total domestic contribution is 20%.
g)     The site will be selected by UPs through a participatory process involving two stages:
(i) selection by UP residents through a public meeting for discussing alternatives using
user-inputs techniques (such as, map-making etc.), most likely with assistance of
LGED's community organisers (which assistance may not be available in all cases). (ii)
Voting by UP council on the proposed sites.
h)    The UP should undertake to provide for regular maintenance of the structures and
earthworks.
i)     UP's should agree to provide to LGED data regarding extent of the funding done
through new resource mobilisation, data on employment of the poor, length of road
made passable, and also some data on traffic growth (All these through a proforma to
be filled on completion of works and a year after completion).
j)     UP should contribute its share partly in advance as described earlier. It can raise new
resources (preferred method) or use UP's ADP allocation or other revenues.
5.    Selection of Other Components: (such as small rural markets) would be according to selection
criteria to be agreed between LGED and IDA.
C.    Monitoring of Land Acquisition
6.1    LGD will set up a committee headed by a Deputy Secretary (who will directly report to
the LGD Secretary) with representatives from LGED, which will: (i) ensure that the Ministry's
administrative approval is given within seven days of request by LGED; (ii) liaise with respective
district commissioners to speed up the process of land acquisition and compensation. LGED will report
to IDA monthly on progress of these actions.
D.    Participatorv Processes
7.1    The project components, to be eligible, should use participatory approach in selecting
components; and as far as feasible in design and implementation of the project. Main
project components (roads, river jetties, markets), have already been selected using
active involvement of beneficiaries; changes in these lists will be done through
participatory processes defined earlier in this annex. (see also Annex 2.3 in SAR which



106                                Annex 2.1
Page 8 of 8
describes participation processes in more details). Rural structures will be selected
using specially designed participatory processes and "user input" techniques. In the
case of growth center markets, the design of facilities will be done in full day meetings
with vendors and others who would be the main users of these market facilities; they
will also be given a key role in managing the markets (regarding level of user charges,
auctioning of market lease, maintenance arrangements and funding), through market
committees of users, reporting every six months to an "assembly" of market users,
with special emphasis on information sharing. These procedures would be reviewed
during project implementation with IDA, and changes if necessary will be agreed. For
road components, user committees will be set up to give feed back on design and
quality of on-going works.
7.2    To ensure the participatory process to be more transparent and well implemented, the
project would finance 17 positions of local specialists in community participation
(sociologists or equivalent) and one consultant with international and local experience;
of these one community specialist will be placed in each project district, and three
community specialists (supervisors) will be assigned to advise and assist the Project
Director and LGED headquarters. In addition, suitable LGED personnel at Thana level
will be trained as "community organizers". These positions will be filled by March 31,
1997.  Services of NGO's would also be used, as needed, in promoting the
participation process, particularly in market/ghat planning.
7.3    The participation specialists will also assist poor workers and destitute women to
organize labor contracting societies (to work as contractors in labor based road works
and road maintenance) in two pilot districts, with the help of NGOs. However,
selection/formation of LCS will have to be recognized by UPs.
7.4   In addition, LGED, during project implementation, will pilot, with the help of NGO's
as needed, new methods for community-level participation in road maintenance in at
least two pilot districts, and provide a report on its findings. This pilot program will be
started, in consultation with IDA, before June 30, 1998, and a report on lessons
learned will be provided to IDA before December 31, 2000.
7.5    LGED will also set up by December 31, 1997, District level road user committees with
representatives from different user groups to promote information sharing and selection
of priorities and to facilitate feed back from users on quality of ongoing works.
7.6    To enhance participation of women, LGED would nominate one of its senior staff(the
sociologist in the LGED headquarter's office provided as incremental staff) to look
after gender issues. LGED has also agreed to recruit more women engineers as its staff
and to give special emphasis to training of women members of UPs under its
participation training programs under the project so as to strengthen their role in local
development matters. LGED/UPs will also help increase the number of women
members in the market and ghat user committees.



107                            Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT DETAILS
The location of main project componets pre-selected during project appraisal process is listed
below:
(i)    list of FRB roads selected for full improvements;
(ii)   list of growth center markets selected for improvement with tentative construction
program; and
(iii)  list of river jetties (ghats) to be improved.



108                                Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 7
List Of FRB Roads Selected For Full Improvement With Annual Construction Program
Distrcts             Length of Road       Length of       Number of Road        Number of
(kn)            Structures         Contracts          Structures
Contracts
Manikganj District
Nayadingi-Katigram                   3.9                0.0                 1                 0
Singair-Baira                        5.0                0.0                 1                 0
Jhitka-Machain                       9.0               63.5                2                   3
Barundi-Mitara                       7.4               26.7                2                   1
RHD-Bangladesh Hat*                  5.9                0.0                 1                 0
Saturia-Daragram*                    5.6                0.0                 1                 0
*BC Surfacing Only
Mushiganj District
Sirajdikhan-Taltala                  6.6               60.0                3                  4
Dighirpar-Tongibari                  10.6              43.0                2                   1
Hasara-Baraikhali                    8.0                0.0                2                  0
Betka-Tongibari                      3.7                0.0                 1                 0
Nimtali-Shekharnagar                 6.9               75.0                2                   1
Hatimara-Mirkadim                    1.4                0.0                 1                 0
Munshirhat-Chitulia                  10.5               0.0                2                  0
Narayanganj District
Araihazar-Uchitpur                   11.0              22.0                6                   1
Nayapur-Panchamighat                 2.4               15.8                 1                  1
Poshibazar-Rupganj                   7.6                0.0                2                  0
Gazipur District
Sreepur-Barmi                        7.7                7.9                3                   1
Kapasia-Raniganj                     7.6               17.4                2                   1
Shoraid-Jamalpur                     5.6                8.4                 1                 0
Kapasia-Toknayan                     15.7              177.7               2                   5
Kashimpur-Konabari                   3.8                2.7                 1                 0
Mawna-Gazipur                        10.1               11.1                1                 0
Mawna-Fulbaria                       12.9              45.1                2                  2
Narsingdi District
Belabo-Puradia                       7.0               23.2                2                   1
Chalakchar-Borachapa                 5.5                13.6                1                  1
Chaitanna-Jessore                    2.1               60.7                 1                 2
Balapur-Madhabdi                     5.0                0.0                 1                 0
Narsingdi-Monipura                   13.4              130.0                1                 2
Puradia-Borochapa                    6.1               15.0                 1                 0
Radhaganj-Sreerampur                 8.8               66.5                 2                  2
Taltala-Kalirbazar                   12.2              35.4                 2                  1



Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 7
Districts            Length of Road       Length of       Number of Road        Number of
(km)            Structures         Contracts          Structures
Contracts
Dhaka District
Raipara-Barra Hat                    8.0                1.5                4                  0
Dhamrai-Dhantara                     15.1              15.0                2                   1
Gobindapur-RHD                       3.4                0.0                 1                 0
Palamganj-Ekrashi                    1.3                0.6                 1                 0
Kalatia-Ruhitpur                     7.3                0.0                2                  0
Baruakhali-Mazirkanda                8.4               64.0                2                  3
Nawabganj-Paragram                   15.6               0.0                2                  0
Shimulia-Jirani Bazar                7.9               44.6                2                  2
Sreerampur-Suapur                    5.6                2.4                2                  0
Hasnabad-Bibir Bazar                 9.4                0.0                2                  0
Rajshahi District
Keshore-Bhabaniganj                  18.8              10.0                 1                  1
Bhabaniganj-Atraj                    16.8              79.0                2                  2
Mathabhanga-Hat Gangapur             8.9               31.0                2                   1
Nandangachi-Charghat                 7.3                7.0                2                  0
Nsogaon District
Kola-RHD                             2.9                5.9                 1                  1
Mohishbathan-RHD                     2.8               14.4                 1                  1
Mohadevpur-Matajee                   12.4              16.8                 1                  1
Shibpur-RHD                          8.6               29.5                2                   1
Moshidpur-Porsha                     11.0              12.3                 1                 0
Natore District
RHD-Halsa                            6.2               18.5                 1                  1
RHD-Bildohur                        21.1               44.0                3                   1
Nawabganj District
Bholahat-Futanibazar                 5.4                5.1                 1                 0
Mollickpur-Nachole                   17.4              10.2                 1                 0
Akkelpur-Digha                       6.4                2.7                 1                 0
Pabna District
Chatmohar-Chaikola                   14.5              25.5                2                   1
Bhangura-Astomonisha                 7.4               105.0                2                  1
Sirajganj District
WDB Embankment-Daulatpur             7.2                2.1                2                  0
Daya-Jamirita                        5.5               95.0                2                  2
RHD-Dhekuria                         2.3                0.9                 1                 0
Ullapara-Krishokganj                 7.1               203.6               2                   1
Tarash-Naogaon                       10.5              18.5                 1                  1



110                                    Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 7
Districts             Length of Road        Length of       Number of Road        Number of
(km)            Structures          Contracts          Structures
Contracts
Bogra District
Bihar-Shibganj                        5.8                21.2                 1                  1
Dhunot-Mathurapur                     10.4               14.6                 1                  1
Mirzapur-Ranirhat                     11.6               10.6                 1                  1
Zianagar-Dhupchanchia                 9.5                30.1                 2                  1
Dhunot-Sonahata                       8.7                13.2                 2                  1
Joypurhat District
Pathanpara-Hope Hat                   2.1                7.7                  1                  1
Akkelpur-Tilakpur                     13.7               31.0                 1                  1
TOTAL                                573.3              1914.2               114                 59



111                                         Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 7
List of Growth Centre Markets Selected for Improvements with Tentative Construction Program
- . DistIc.       :1996197-                 1997/98                 1998/99                 1999100
Manikganj        * Saturia (Satuna)  C   * Katigram (Sadar) C   * Baira (Singair)    C   * Jhitka (Hanrampur) C
* Ghior (Ghior)     C   * Oaulatpur         A   * Barangail           A
(Daulatpur)            (Shibalya)
Munshiganj       * Taltala          A   * Sreenagar          B   * Bhaberchar       B   * Betka (Tongiban)   A
(Sirajdikhan)          (Sreenagar)              (Gazaria)            * Chitulia (Sadar)    A
*  Dighirpar        B   * Mirkadim (Sadar) A   * Shekhamagar          A
(Tongibari)          * Sirajdikhan       A      (Sirajdikhan)
* Rekabi (Sadar)   C       (Sirajdikhan)
* Shagyakul        A
(Sreenagar)
Narayanganj     * Araihazar        A   * Panchamighat   A   * Porshibazar           A   * Baktabali (Sadar)   B
(Araihazar)            (Sonargaon)              (Rupgaiij)           * Kanchan Bazar
* Gopatdi           B   * Uchitput          B      (Rupganj)          B
(Araihazar)             (Araihazar)
* Murapara          B   * Shabdibazar       B
(Rupganj)               (Bandar)
Gazipur         * Bamii (Sre.pur)  C   * Ranigan)           C   * Jamalpur          B   * Toknayan            B
* Kapasia          C      (Kapasia)                (Kaligan;)             (Kapasia)
(Kapasla)           * Kaliganj           B   * Sreepur           B   * Mawna (Sre pur)   C
(Kaligan;)              (Sreepur)            * Pubali (Sadar)      B
* Mirzapur (Sadar) C   * Kashimpur          A   * Fulbana            B
* Kaliakoir         C      (Sadar)                (Kaliakoir)
(Kaliakoir)
Narshingdi      * Belabo (Belabo)  C   * Chalakchar         C   * Puradia (Belabo) B   * Narayanpur           B
* Jeshore          B      (Monohardi)           * Monipura         A      (Belabo)
(Shibpur)           * Charsindur         B      (Raipura)            * Puthia (Shibpur)    C
(Palash)             * Shlbpur           B   * Radhaganj           C
* Hatirdia          C      (Shibpur)              (Raipura)
(Monohardi)          * Chamagardi        B   * Belapur (Sadar)    A
* Srmerampur        C      (Palash)
(Raipura)
Dhaka           * Barrahat (Dohar) A   * Dhantara           C   * Ekrashi (Dohar)  A   * Suapar (Dhamrai)   B
* Komorganj        C      (Dhamrai)             * Kalatia          B   * Baruakhali
(Nawabganj)         * Joypara (Dohar)  B        (Keraniganj)            (Nawabganj)       A
* Ruhitpur          B   * Ashulia (Savar)   C   * Nayer (Savar)       B
(Keraniganj)                                 * Paragram            B
* Kalampur          B                              (Nawabganj)
(Dhamrai)
Rajshahi        * Arani (Bagha)    A   * Belgana             B   * Taherpur         C   * Rajban              B
(Durgapur)              (Bagmara)               (Godagan)
*  Mochmoil         B   * Mundamala         B   * Nandangachi         A
(Bagmara)               (Tanore)                (Charghat)
* Mougachi         A   * Mollapara           A
(Mohanpur)             (Puthia)
* Dankura (Paba)  B
Naogbon         * Aradigun         A   * Kola (Bacalgachi C   * Chowbana            C   * Suti (Manda)        C
(Dhamoirhat)        *  Hapania (Sadar)  A       (Manda)              * Sapahar (Sapahar)  C
* Nazirpur          B   * Matajee           C   * Tnmohini            C
(Patnitola)             (Mohadevpur)            (Raninagar)
* Chatra           B   * Moshidpur           A
(Niamatpur)            (Moshtdpur)
Natore          * Dayaramour        A   *  Halsa (Sacar)    A   * Naidanga          8   * Bildonur (Singra)   A
(Bagatipara)        * Moulchara          C      (Sadar)              * Nazlrpur            B
(Boraig.am)          * Abdulpur          A      (Gurudaspur)
(Lalpur)



112                                   Annex 2.2
Page 6 of 7
District  j         1996197                             -7 199  f  1./I99                  1999/00--
Nawabganj       * Kalinagar        B   * Futanipur         A   * Mollickpur       C   * Akkelpur           A
(Sadar)               (Bholahat)               (Nachole)             (Gomastapur)
* Monakasha        A
(Shibganj)
Pabna           * Garui (Atghona) A   * Ekdanta           A   * Muladuli          B  * Mirzapur            A
(Atghona)              (Ishwardi)             (Chatmohar)
* Ataikula         B   *   .emra           A   * Nazirganj          B
(Santhia)               (Fandpur)             (Sujanagar)
*Dublia (Sadar)     A
Sirajganj       * Mohanpur         B   * Daulatpur         B   * Enayetpur        C   * Naogaon (Tarsh)  B
(Ulapara)             (Belkuchi)              (Chauhali)           * Kalia (Sadar)     C
* Balarampur       A   * Dhekuna           A   * Sonamukhi          B
(Kamarkhand)            (Kazipur)              (Kazipur)
* Jamirata         A   * Nimgachi          A
(Shahzadpur)            (Raigani)
Bogra           * Goshiban        B   * Taruni (Gabtoli)  C   * Dhunott(Dhunot) B   * Talora              A
(Dhunot)           * Durgapur          A   * Baluahat         A      (Dhupchanchia)
Fulbari        A      (Kahaloo)               (Sonatala)           * Shihali (Shibganj)   8
(Sariakandi)       * Jamidar Pukur   A   * Nashratpur          B   * Ranirhat (Sherpur)  A
(Sadar)                (Adamgachi)          * Perirhat (Gabtoli)   B
* Ranabhagar      C
(Nandigram)
Joypurhat       * Punat (Kalai)    B   * Durgadaha        A   * Molamgan          B   * Tilakpur (Akkelpur) C
(Sadar)                (Kalai)
* Bindhara         B
(Panchbibi)
Notes    Each Growth Centre market will be improved over two construction seasons. The program shows the
Financial Year in which the improvement works will commence.
The name of the Thana in which the market is located is shown in parentheses.
For costing purposes, market have been divided into three categones
A       Small
B       Medium
C       Large
The letter after the name of each market defines its category.



113                                        Annex 2.2
Page 7 of 7
List of River Jetties (Ghats) to be Improved
.D. strict: .      1996197.               1997198.                 1998/99                 1999100
Manikgan;                               * Saturia (Saturia)  A   * Tara Ghat       C      Jhitka (Hanrampur) A
(Sadar)
* Changram         C
(Singair)
Munshigan;                              * Noapara           C   * Sreenagar        A   * Betka (Tongiban)   A
(Lohajang)              (Sreenagar)          * Chitulia (Sadar)   A
Narayanganj     * Anandabazar    C   * Murapara             A   * Gopaldi          A   * Uchitpur            A
(Sonargaon)            (Rupganj)               (Araihazar)            (Araihzr)
Kanchanbazar        A
(Rupganj)
Gazipur                                 * Barmi (Sreepur)  A   * Ranigar;          A   * Jamaipur           A
(Kapasia)              (Kaligan;)
* Kashimpur        A   * Fulbaria           A
(Sadar)                (Kaliakoir)
Narshingdi      * Jeshore          A   * Sreerampur        A   * Charsindur        A   * Kahimpur           C
(Shibpur)             (Raipura)                (Palash)               (Sadar)
Dhaka                                   * Komorganj         A   * Ekrashi (Dohar)  A   * Nayr (Savw)        A
(Nawabganj)          * Fort Nagar       C   * Bibir Bazar         C
(Dhamrai)             (Karaniganj)
Rajshahi                                * Mohanganj         A   * Naohatta         A   * Dhopagabt          C
(Bagmara)               (Paba)                 (Mohanpur)
Naogaon                                                         * Mohadevpur       A   * Ahsanij (Atrai)   A
(Mohadevpur)
Natore                                  * Chanchkoir        C                          * Naldanga (Sadr)   A
(Gurudaspur)
Nawbganj    r                                                      Mollickpur      C   * Nakati Tala        A
(Nachole)              (Shibganj)
Pabna                                   * Banwannagar    A   * Shelonda            C   * Mirzapur           A
(Fandpur)               (Santhia)              (Chatmohar)
Siraigani                                                       * Talgachi         A
(Shahzadpur)
Bogra                                                                                   * Shimaban           C
(Sherpur)
Notes    The name of the Thana in which the ghat is located is shown in parentheses.
The Ghat Rehabilitabon/Construction Schemes are in two categones
A       Additional ghat facilities at improved Growth Centre markets
C       Complete ghat facilities
The letter after each ghat name defines its category



114                                 Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAIENANCE PROJECT
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN THIE PROJECT
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
1.    Introduction
Participation of major stakeholders and beneficiaries has been incorporated into the design of the
project from the start of preparation. The Feeder Roads, markets and ghats for improvement have
already been selected through a process of participation to identify local priorities (see Annex 2.1).
The remaining components will follow similar procedures. During the course of project preparation,
major opportunities have been identified to expand the scope of participation. SAR, paragraphs 3.1 to
3.5 sunmmarize the main participatory features of the projects.
It is a very fortunate situation for the project preparation that all parties are very positive about the
participatory approach. The Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) has become an
enthusiastic promoter of the participatory approach; this is very important because co-ordination by
LGED at the national level ensures that successful approaches will be replicated in the whole country.
Also the National Planning Commission has made participation a major emphasis of their new
development plan under preparation. This is clearly implied by the title of the document under
preparation: "Participatory Perspective Plan for Bangladesh 1995 2010".
As part of the preparation work a series of studies have been carried out on different aspects of
participation, the findings of which are presented in four working papers produced in early 19951. This
note, which supplements discussions in SAR (paragraphs 3.1 to 3.5), summarises the findings from the
work on participation, and the participatory measures that will be applied in the implementation of the
different components of the project.
2.    Context
*     In the context of LGED rural infrastructure development activities, there is an array of
stakeholders in participation:
LGED, and its staff at HQ, District and Thana level.
The rural communities such as rural social leaders, landless men and women, men and
women professionals, destitute men and women, etc.
Particular target and interest groups among the rural communities - e.g. poor women
and men, men and women market users, boat operators, lessees, etc.
'Community Participation in Rural Infrastructure Development' by Dr. Dee Jupp.
'Use of Labour Contracting Societies in Rural Infrastructures' by Mr. Mohammed Faizullah.
'Financing Local Level Infrastructures' by Mr. Mohammed Faizullah.
'Institutional Issues in Participation' by Dr. M. Rashiduzzaman.
(These are included in Project Files; see Annex 4.1)



115
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 11
-      NGOs, youth clubs, women's organisations etc., who may have a role to play in
particular aspects of participation.
-      Local government bodies - Union Parishads (UP) including their women members,
Thana Development Co-ordination Committees (TDCC), Market Management
Committees (MMC) including women representatives, and Ghat Management
Committees (GMC).
-      Officials of Central Government working at local level - Deputy Commissioner (DC),
Thana Nirbahi Officer (TNO), District Women Affairs Officer etc.
-      Local Government Division (LGD) responsible for local government, and National
Institute of Local Government (NILG).
-      Project Beneficiaries: including users of rural roads, structures, markets, river jetties,
i.e. most of the rural population in the project areas.
*      There are four levels of Participation:
1.    Information Sharing
2.     Consultation
3.     Shared Control over Decision-Making
4.     Initiation of Action
Participation should be perceived as encompassing all aspects of rural infrastructure
development. However it must be practical and manageable, and will involve different
stakeholders, and operate at different levels, for different aspects:
-      Planning and Selection of Infrastructure Schemes
-      Detailed Design of Infrastructure Schemes
-      Implementation of Infrastructure Works
-      Monitoring of Infrastructure Works
-      Operation and Maintenance of Infrastructure
-      Financing of Infrastructure Improvement and Maintenance.
*      Many aspects of LGED's activities already involve participation, and it has embarked upon a
number of initiatives to develop more participatory approaches:
-      it is a rural infrastructure development agency with a genuine poverty focus in its
work, has a significant presence throughout the country at local-level (Thana and
District) and inter-acts with different stakeholders at local-level.
the concept of LGED  staff as 'social engineers' is emerging, training in socio-
economic issues is being developed, and LGED is taking steps to strengthen its 'social'
staffing capacity - most importantly by the conversion of selected staff in each Thana
office to the post of 'community organiser', and the provision of training to these
community organisers.
LGED is already involved in developing planning capacity at union and thana level,
e.g. through extensive training, the use of the Union and Thana Plan Books, and is
refining procedures to increase the level of participation. LGED's existing training
programs needs to be reviewed and tailored according to the needs of the project.



116
Annex 2.3
Page 3 of II
LGED already works with UPs and TDCCs in the implementation of different
programs, e.g. the Growth Centre Connecting Roads (GCCR) program, and the
Integrated Food for Development (IFFD) project which LGED implements with
CARE.
LGED pioneered the concept of Labour Contracting Societies in Bangladesh to exploit
the opportunities of infrastructure works to provide employment for the rural poor men
and women (see attachment 1)
LGED is now expanding this concept to employ disadvantaged, assetless women for
routine maintenance, tree caretaking on FRBs, and other infrastructure building
activities.
As part of the development of the FRB maintenance system, LGED is involving the
UPs in monitoring of maintenance works.
LGED is now addressing the needs of women at improved markets.
*     LGED's participatory approach has been further developed in the preparation of the RRMIMP-
2 project - a participatory approach has been adopted for the pre-selection of FRBs, Growth
Centre markets and ghats for improvement under the project, involving group discussions at
Thana level with representatives including women members of each Union (together with the
Thana Engineer and the TNO) to identify and rank local priorities for improvement.
*     Activities under the project should aim to build upon, reinforce and extend existing LGED
initiatives in participation. However there are some institutional issues that extend beyond
LGED and relate to the Local Government Division of the Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Co-operatives (MLGRD&C).
3.    Community Participation in Infrastructure Development
*     The project area covers 14 Districts, 97 Thanas, 960 Unions and about 22 million people.
Initiatives under the project in respect of community participation must be both practical and
manageable within the scale of the project.
*     Field investigations have been carried out to assess the scope and identify the mechanisms for
community participation in selection of schemes (SRR), in detailed design (markets and ghats),
and in monitoring (SRR, markets and ghats). Specific attention was given to the participation
of women in these aspects.
*     The key findings from the field investigations are as follows:
Rural people including target and interest groups (the end-users) would like to become
more involved in the selection and design of rural infrastructure schemes - SRR,
Markets, Ghats. They have something valuable to offer in terms of their local
knowledge of needs and  priorities, and  in  recommending  detailed  design
improvements.



117
Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 11
Simple mapping exercises by road users (men & women) provide a good basis for
community discussion on priorities for SRRs, and for presenting proposals to officials.
Group discussions and ranking exercises provide a mechanism for users' requirements
and priorities to be incorporated into the design of market and ghat improvements.
End-users are ill-informed about proposed development initiatives, about decision-
mraking processes and about procedures for operation and management of rural
infrastructure (e.g. markets). End-users are also ill-informed about sources and
allocation of funds. More information will result in greater transparency and will allow
'monitoring from below'.
Women are increasingly using roads and markets, and should be involved in
community participation processes. Market improvement schemes offer an opportunity
to stimulate increased use by women. Women groups, and NGOs that promote
income-generating activities for women, should be involved in determiining the need
for, and the design of, any special market facilities for women and in monitoring of its
implementation.
Market and ghat users indicate that they would be prepared to pay increased tolls for
improved facilities as long as they are consulted about the improvements.
Community discussions indicate that people have some reservations about the role of
NGOs in participatory planning, particularly in acting on their behalf as 'advocates' to
higher authorities. NGOs may also be reluctant to take on this role.
However there are possibilities for NGOs to support LGED in developing participatory
planning capability. A participatory process demands people to develop their capacity
to question about the issues that relate to them. So, NGOs who have the objectives of
social mobilisation to ascertain people's rights need to be selected.
*     The findings from the field investigations indicate that initiatives under the project in respect of
community participation should focus on:
i)    providing more information to rural men and women on infrastructure development
and management in their locality;
ii)   involvement of communities (men and women) in selection of SRR;
iii)   involvement of men and women users in the design of market and ghat improvements;
iv)   involvement of men and women groups in result based monitoring. To enable them to
do the monitoring using selected indicators will require field testing and training since
they will need to understand and to be familiarised with the indicators in order to play
an effective role.
*     Based on these conclusions, the project will incorporate two approaches to community
participation:
1 .    Throughout the project area 'Information Sharing' and feed back mechanisms will be
incorporated into the project. The aim is to inform rural people about:
broad plans in place for the area under the project, how these have been made,
and the financial implications including contributions that will be made by local
bodies.
aspects of the project where people can make an input to selection and design
(SRR, markets, ghats), and the channels for making their inputs.



118                                 Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 11
-      decisions that are made about, reasons for such decisions, and arrangements for
implementation of, investment schemes in their locality.
-      procedures for the operation and maintenance of infrastructure, sources and
allocation of funds, and responsibilities of local bodies (particularly in respect
of Rural Roads, markets and ghats).
The UPs will be an important partner in the process of information sharing. They will
require training and support from the LGED Community Organisers (who will also
require training in information dissemination techniques) and/or from other non
government organisations. A range of appropriate methods will be used for
dissemination of different types of information including:
-      'banging' of drums - a traditional method for spreading news. This should also
be done in the residential areas so that women get the information.
-      distribution of flyers.
-      public meetings.
-      posting of notices in prominent places, e.g. presentation of plans for market
improvement, and listing of members of the market management committee, in
Growth Centre markets.
-      advertising (of the SRR schemes).
-      use of local institution such as schools, madrasha, NGOs and social leaders.
This information sharing approach will include feed back from the beneficiaries and
sharing of information on problems faced, lessons learnt, strengths and weaknesses of
the implemented activities, special provisions for women in different activities, and
facilitate 'monitoring from below'. The project will monitor the performance and
effectiveness of the information sharing approach and methodologies.
2.    In a more targeted manner, community participation will be taken a stage further by
adopting a 'Users Input' approach:
i)    for the detailed design of Markets and Ghats, the approach will be applied
extensively to the proposed improvement schemes, but with representative
samples of users. Group discussions and ranking exercises will be used to
define local priorities for specific improvements and to provide inputs on
detailed aspects of design. This Users Input approach will be integrated into
the standard LGED procedure for physical planning and design of market
improvements. Draft plans and designs for improvement will be posted in each
market/ghat for review prior to finalisation.
ii)    for the SRR component, an extensive application of this approach will be made
in selected 'pilot' Districts, and in sample communities in those Districts,
identification of priorities for SRRs through mapping exercises will be
facilitated; the communities (men and women) encouraged and assisted to
represent their priorities to local officials; and participation in monitoring will
be included. Because of the national activities of this component (i.e. also
outside the project area of all the other components) the extensive approach
cannot be applied everywhere, yet for all the projects some level of
participation of beneficiaries, at least consultation by UP will be done.



119
Annex 2.3
Page 6 of 11
The implementation of this approach will require capacity for facilitation of community
participation. The main mechanism for this will be to develop the capability of the
LGED Community Organisers, and the project will provide them with training and
monitor their performance. However the project may also experiment in specific areas
with other mechanisms including the temporary employment of university graduates
living in the rural
area; use of an NGO (though there are significant risks involved and the NGO must
have capability in PRA); the recruitment of a TA team to carry out the facilitation; and
the involvement of local individual experts in PRA. could be involved.
Special attention will be paid to ensuring that the approach incorporated inputs by
women as users' of infrastructure, and to involving women in the design of market
facilities to encourage women to use the markets for income-generating activities and
monitoring of their implementation. .
The users input approach will also be applied to the pilot program to improve NMT
(see Annex 2.4).
The project will be responsible for ensuring quality control of the users input approach
and for monitoring its effectiveness..
4.    Participatory Processes in the Different Components of the Project
Participation is build in into the different components of the project. The main features of each
component are summarised below.
4.1.   Feeder Roads Type B (FRB) Component
The FRB roads to be improved under this component have been selected using a participatory
approach involving consultation with local bodies - Union Parishads, TDCCs and NGOs - to derive a
short-list of roads based on local priorities, which were then subjected to economic appraisal.
4.2.   Maintenance component: Road User Committees
There is a need for involving road users in setting priorities for the development and
maintenance of the network. As roads are improved bus and truck operations become more important
and the opinions of bus and truck operators do matter, this is also true for the business community in
general. Since the road network provides also access to social services, the opinions of officials and
users of health and educational infrastructure are also important. Therefore the project emphasizes the
creation of Road User Committees. These committees will approve maintenance schemes and may be
involved with the approval of future investment schemes, these committees will include all above
mentioned stakeholders. After examining different options LGED proposes to create these Road User
Conmnittees at Thana level.



120
Annex 2.3
Page 7 of 11
4.3.   Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) Component
It is in the SRR component that community participation plays a most important role. Under
the project a fund will be created to provide matching grants and the project will provide technical
services, but the decision to build a structure, where and when to build it and the local financial
contribution will be decided by the local people in collaboration with their elected local
representatives. The LGED Community Organisers will assist in this process using the "information
sharing" approach and in selected UPs using the "users input" approach.
The procedures of this component have been detailed during meetings with UP Chairmen and
the UP Chairmen association.
This component will include a national information campaign in order to create a demand from
the bottom up. Another important aspect is increasing UP resources by the transfer of central
government income to local government, matching grants will further increase resources and encourage
improved local revenue collection. Involving local NGOs, youth clubs and women's organisations will
increase local community participation and execution of part of the works by Labour Contracting
Societies (LCSs) will provide income to local poor men and women.
4.4.   Markets and Ghats Components
The design of markets and ghats will be based on participatory processes in order to take into
account users needs.
But the project will also formulates recommendations and implement changes in the
management of the markets and ghats. These changes aim at increasing participation by the users.
Proposed changes will aim at increasing the number of users as members of the existing but hardly
functioning Market Management Committees (MMC), and to provide further measures to improve the
functioning of these MMCs such as providing salaries to MMC members and the creation of an
assembly of all market users to supervise its activities periodically. Training and assistance will be
provided through the Community Organisers.
Market vendors will play a key role in managing the improved facilities through the users
committees; it is expected that procedures evolved in consultation with market users will set up
"assembly of market-users" for each market, to which the market committees will report every six
months. Similar procedures will be used for ghat management country boat owners/operators will play
key role in ghat management. There will also be more women-user members in these communities.
4.5.   Non Motorised Transport (NMT) Component
The Non Motorised Transport component aims at improving transport by rickshaws and
bullock carts. In order to work closely with the operators of these means of transport and to ensure
their interest and collaboration these activities will be executed by experienced local NGOs and other
stakeholders with only minimal supervisory involvement from LGED. Dissemination will be done in
close collaboration with the Bangladesh National Forum Group of the International Forum for Rural
Transport and Development, local NGOs and other community groups.



121
Annex 2.3
Page 8 of l1
4.6.   Human Resource Development (HIRD) Component
The HRD component will include the training required to improve the participatory aspects of
the project. First of all this component will include training of the Community Organisers (see also
above) but also of other LGED staff such as the Thana Engineers in order to make them aware of the
need for community participation, to guarantee their understanding of the approach and their full co-
operation, and finally give them the ability to manage a participatory process.
In the training of UP members and staff, understanding and implementing community
participation will be an important part of their training.
The trained LGED staff and specially the Community organisers will enable the beneficiaries
(including women) to assume and develop their capacity as stakeholders.
LGED training program under the project will give special emphasis to training of the women
members of UPs.
4.7.   Technical Assistance (TA) Component
In order to guarantee a successful implementation of the participatory approach the project will fund a
number of specialist positions to assist with the implementation of the approach. In order to provide
field training and supervise the LGED Community Organisers based in each Thana, the project will
provide a full-time Sociologist in each of the 14 districts covered by the project. These sociologists
will be assisted by two Senior Sociologists at the project headquarters. The project will also fund a
permanent position of a Sociologist (Participation and Land Acquisition) at the LGED headquarters in
the Planning Cell under the second Additional Chief Engineer. Finally the international DSM
consultants will provide 24 person-months of a Participation Specialist to advise on the development of
the methodologies and the implementation of the participatory approach, to develop the related training
programs, to advise on the monitoring of the effectiveness of the participation, and to define training
and human resource development needs to develop participatory capability in LGED.
5.    Institutional Issues
*     In addition to activities in the field, the project will contribute to the development of
participatory capability in LGED through:
-     organisation and conduct of seminars for senior staff, drawing on experience from the
project, from other agencies in Bangladesh and from other countries;
-     further development of the training course on socio-economic issues to incorporate
community participation, gender and development, case studies and practical sessions;
incorporation into the course of practical experience from the project, and extension of
training to all XENs and TEs, and to other engineering staff;
-     applying the experience from the project, particularly in respect of the 'Information
Sharing' and 'Users Input' approaches, to the refinement of the Union/Thana Plan
Book planning processes.
-     ensuring effective performance in participatory process by the engineers. Their
accountability would be linked to performance of the participatory aspects and their
performance evaluation would be done on the basis of these.



122                               Annex 2.3
Page 9 of 11
LGED should develop a policy and standard procedures for the use of labour groups for
different types of infrastructure works.
*     It is desirable that Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) and other
tertiary engineering education institutions should incorporate social issues into their
undergraduate curricula. To get Engineers with knowledge on social aspects, LGED should
raise to the Ministry of Education through the Local Government Division a proposal in this
respect.
*     There are certain broader institutional issues related to the role of local government bodies in
rural infrastructure development that are within the responsibility of LGD rather than LGED.
These include:
-     policy action on revising the procedure for market lease bidding and on revising the
distribution of lease revenue;
-     development of the role of NILG in supporting the strengthening of local government
bodies;
-     measures to improve the effectiveness of the TDCC;
-     changing the composition of the MMC to make it more effective and more responsive
to the needs of market users.
6.    Gender Issues
The project help enhance women's participation by employment of women for small works;
better facilities in markets created in consultation with women-users; an employment of more
women engineers; encouraging more women-user members in market committees; and training
of the women members of UPs in project participation processes.
7.    Role of NGOs
The project includes many innovative features and will promote beneficiary participation in
many different ways, including the use of NGOs, because NGOs are in a better position to
organise the participation of poor beneficiaries in the area of rural development. There are
many areas in which NGOs would be contracted to help implement project components: in
implementing the non-motorised transport (NMT) pilot component; in assisting training and
participation of country boat owners involved with the river jetties, and training of poor
workers in organising themselves into labour contracting societies for doing earthworks in two
project districts and in piloting greater community involvement in maintenance. In addition, in
the large nation-wide component of rural drainage structures (culverts) which will be
implemented with local community participation (in selection, funding and supervision), it is
expected that following national advertisement of this competitive component, many small,
local NGOs will come forward to assist in these areas. Informal NGOs of market vendors and
users would likewise be involved in helping the design, maintenance and management of rural
markets under the project.



Annex 2.3
123                               Page lOofll
Attachment 1
Income-Generation for the Poor
*     LGED pioneered the concept of LCS as a means of targeting employment on infrastructure
works at the rural poor men and women. The concept has now been taken up by a number of
LGED projects, and by other agencies, under several different names - as a general term,
'labour groups' may be used. There are substantial variations in the different systems used in
respect of:
'targeting': e.g. the LGED/CARE Road Maintenance Project employs only assetless
women while a Project Implementation Committee set up by a UP for a food for work
scheme may simply employ 'local labour';
tasks: labour groups are variously used for construction earthworks, pipe culvert
casting and installation, HBB works, tree planting and caretaking, and routine
maintenance;
contractual arrangements: LGED does not enlist LCS as contractors, whereas under the
Early Implementation Project (EIP) of the Bangladesh Water Development Board they
are enlisted as Class D contractors (i.e. the lowest level of contractor). However LCS
engaged in construction works normally receive some advance payment.
payment: LGED pays labour groups engaged in maintenance regularly but in arrears.
The groups under the EIP receive staged payments including an advance. Labour
groups engaged in culvert making and installation normally receive an advance for
materials.
*     The labour group concept has the advantage that it targets employment directly at the rural
poor and eliminates middle-men, and offers the potential for assisting beneficiaries
subsequently to move on to other income-generating activities. However the formation and
social/economic development of such groups is time-consuming and labour-intensive. Further,
LCS engaged in earthworks construction normally only have a life span of only one
construction season (since there is no continuity of construction earthworks in the locality
where members of the group live).
*     There is considerable scope for the project to provide employment opportunities for the rural
poor through its infrastructure works. The scope for use of contracting groups has been
assessed as follows:
i)    embankment earthworks on FRBs must be mechanically compacted, and it is difficult
to combine use of labour groups for the earthworks with contractors for compaction.
Further, such labour groups would only have a life of one construction season. Labour
groups will not be used for FRB embankment construction. However they will be used
for ancillary earthworks on the SRR component, in conjunction with the introduction
of simple compaction equipment. But LGED will not expend significant effort on the
formation and development of labour groups for this activity wherever labour groups
are available through NGOs;



124                                Annex 2.3
Page 11 of 11
ii)    labour for pipe culvert casting and installation offer greater prospects for sustainability
and longer-term income-generation. The project will utilise such groups for some pipe
culvert works under the SRR component. The groups will require training and skill
development, and substantial advance payment to procure materials (or supply of the
materials by LGED);
iii)   labour groups have great potential for routine maintenance of FRB roads (shoulders,
embankments, cleaning of structures) combined with tree planting and caretaking.
Under the project this work will be targeted at disadvantaged, assetless women,
building on the procedures already being developed in LGED. The long-term
continuity of this work allows the project to assist group members to be self reliant -
through forced savings and/or credit provided by NGOs - to other income-generating
activities.
*     Labour groups must be trained in the technical aspects of their work and in work management,
supervision and payment procedures - the training in technical aspects is particularly important
for PCCI and routine maintenance groups, and responsibility for such training, and for
supervision of the works, will lie with LGED and the project.
*     The social aspects of group formation, mobilisation, gender and development, and 'self
reliance' represent very time-consuming tasks which LGED is not well placed to undertake. It
is preferable for LGED to:
-     work with other organisations (Bangladesh Rural Development Board and NGOs) who
are already involved in group formation and in the provision of credit. Thus, for
ancillary earthworks, groups which have already been formed by other organisations
can be used. Yet depending on the socio-economic situation of the area, willingness to
work on infrastructure, availability of labour group through NGOs will vary. Option
will be kept open for the project to form its own labour groups, if necessary.
-     develop longer-term relationships with 'affiliate' NGOs to focus on group development
but it is not advisable to groom new NGOs..
However LGED will take the lead in defining the targets (e.g. assetless women) for particular
types of labour group.



125                                  Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMIENT
AND MAINTANCE PROJECT
PILOT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE NON-MOTORISED TRANSPORT (NMT)
1.    Background
Non-motorised transport (NMT) plays a very important role in the rural transport system in
Bangladesh, and foremost among the different types of NMT are the cycle rickshaws.
There are estimated to be at least 300,000 cycle rickshaws in rural areas, comprising passenger
rickshaws (which mainly carry people but also move goods) and rickshaw vans (which mainly move
goods but also carry people). Cycle rickshaws provide affordable, flexible, demand-responsive and
extensive transport services in rural areas. They complement motor vehicle services on improved roads
and provide the main means of transport for rural people and their goods on lower levels of the
network where, because of poor road conditions, motor vehicles operate only with difficulty or not at
all. Cycle rickshaws give rural people in Bangladesh who cannot afford to own any means of transport
of their own a level of mobility which is not possible in other rural societies that do not have such
vehicles. A recent study on the impact of non-motorized transport on rural household's activity
patterns showed that of 100 sample households none had any motorized vehicle, only 12 percent had a
bicycle and 4 percent owned boats. The study further revealed that less than 1 percent of the activities
to which the household had to have access could be accessed solely using motorized vehicles; the rest
had to be done using either NMT (13 percent) or walking (41 percent) or any combinations of,
predominantly non-motorized modes (31 percent). Accordingly, there exists an enormous potential
demand for NMT to assist in meeting household's basic socio-economic transport needs. The potential
for motor vehicles to meet rural household's day to day transport demand is negligible because they are
not affordable: 31 percent of the households ruled out use of any type of vehicle, even in the case of
emergency, simply because they are beyond their financial means. Of the 69 percent who can afford
vehicle use, only 20 percent can afford motorized vehicles, while the remaining 80 percent can afford
only NMT. It was found that the time saved by the introduction of NMT would be used mainly for
productive purposes (44 percent and 23 percent for resp. work and domestic tasks). NMT are well-
suited to many of the mobility demands of rural people - travel over relatively short distances and
movement of relatively small volumes of goods. The RRMIMP-2 project traffic counts carried out on
98 unimproved FRB roads in the project area give an indication of the level of use of cycle rickshaws -
there is an average of 360 cycle rickshaw vehicle trips per day on each of these roads. It is estimated
that at least 400,000 people in rural areas are employed in the production, operation and repair of cycle
rickshaws. Most of the rural cycle rickshaws are owned by the men who pull them, and rickshaw
operation is a very important source of employment for the rural poor. A recent survey by the
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics found that rickshaw's share is 30 percent of the transport sector's total
contribution to the GDP.
There has tended in the past to be an assumption that it was not necessary to pay attention to
NMT, except as a hindrance to motor traffic, as they would rapidly disappear with the improvement of
the condition of the road network and economic development. There is some evidence of decline in the
ownership of bullock carts and in their use on improved rural roads. However the numbers of cycle
rickshaws and bicycles in rural areas is continuing to increase, especially on improved roads: recent



126                                   Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 5
studies show an increase of non-motorized vehicles on the improved road network of about 40 percent
one year after improvement to about 60 percent three years after improvement. NMT will continue to
play an important role in the rural transport system, and remain an important means of income-
generation for the rural poor, for the foreseeable future.
Although these figures indicate the large potential of NMT in meeting the transport needs of
the rural poor, there is the potential danger that the positive impact will be biased towards males and
the wealthier classes. Women's activity patterns show a low involvement in direct income generating
activities (on average 6.3 hrs per day is spent on domestic tasks, only 1.1 hr on income generating
activity). Cultural factors play a central role here and the proposed NMT project will include careful
investigation of the social, cultural, and economic factors related to the use of NMT.
The bicycle is the first means of independent, wheeled transport that a rural Bangladeshi can
afford to own. The ownership and use of bicycles can therefore be expected to continue to increase as
rural incomes increase. In rural areas bicycles have the advantages that they can be used to carry
significant amounts of goods as well as the rider, and they can be used on earthen tracks and narrow
footpaths (where larger vehicles cannot move) as well as on the road network.
2.     Design, Manufacturing and Financing Issues
The design of cycle rickshaws - passenger rickshaws and rickshaw vans - is based on bicycle
technology. They use a standard bicycle frame with the rear wheel removed, bicycle front forks, and
the bicycle front brake (rear brakes are not fitted). The extended rear frame, the rear axle, and the
passenger or goods-carrying body of the cycle rickshaws are fabricated in local workshops and bolted
on to the bicycle frame. There have been some innovations in design - stronger wheels on rickshaw
vans and minor variations in body designs - but to a very large extent the cycle rickshaws have
remained unchanged for many years, except for some regional adaptations.  The result of the
unchanged technology is that cycles rickshaws are widely available throughout the country and can be
produced, maintained and repaired anywhere. On the other hand the present designs are technically
deficient in many ways - they require great effort in pedalling, they have limited load space, and have
insufficient braking capacity. They are also subject to frequent breakdown - broken wheels, punctured
tyres, damaged frames and front forks - and require a lot of maintenance and repair.
Bullock carts are a traditional technology in Bangladesh, and are produced by highly skilled
carpenters in roadside workshops. The traditional, large wooden cart wheels, sometimes with iron
plated rims, are inefficient, and are a source of damaged to improved roads - in 1993 the Local
Government Division issued a circular that requires bullock carts used on paved roads to be fitted with
rubber-tyred wheels.
There could be potential to increase the load carrying-capacity and utility of bicycles in
Bangladesh through the introduction of bicycle trailers, particularly since the same basic design could
also be used as a hand-cart - a similar initiative is having growing success in Sri Lanka. Small scale
introduction and testing of such transport innovations that are successful in other countries is included
in the pilot program, with special attention for the transport needs of women, including addressing
current design constraints.



127                                Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 5
There have been several previous initiatives to improve the design of NMT in Bangladesh, and
in particular to improve the design of cycle rickshaws. These initiatives have had no significant impact
on the many cycle rickshaws in use in rural areas, for several reasons:
*     The emphasis was purely on technical improvement to make the cycle rickshaws more
efficient, based on 'outsiders' perceptions of what was required, rather than basing innovations
on the needs and priorities of the rickshaw pullers, makers and users and setting the technical
developments in the context of the social and economic conditions within which cycle
rickshaws function.
*     The emphasis was on producing completely new designs of cycle rickshaws which were
different from the traditional technology, and which proved to be more expensive. The
successful adoption of these improved designs therefore required the rickshaw owners to invest
in a completely new, costly and, in their eyes unproven, technology. This they were reluctant
to do. Also, the new designs tended not to be suited to manufacture in the existing workshops.
*     To overcome the problems of cost, there was a tendency to try and introduce the new designs
through co-operatives. However co-operatives are rare among rural rickshaw pullers who
operate as individual owner-riders, although they do often form into local associations to
protect their common interests. No attempts were made to co-ordinate technical innovation
with the provision of credit for purchase of the new cycle rickshaws.
Market prices of new passenger rickshaws vary from Tk 8,000 to Tk 9,000, while prices of
rickshaw vans are slightly lower at Tk 6,000-7,000. Prices of used vehicles vary from Tk 3,000 to Tk
3,800. Monthly net income of rickshaw pullers varies from Tk 1,500 to Tk 1,700, with similar income
levels for rickshaw van pullers. Both categories reported that the monthly income reported is the only
source of income. Depending on the family size, their monthly expenditures vary from Tk 1,000 to Tk
1,500, making it very hard to put aside savings.
Commercial banks do not finance the purchase of NMT, regarding it as too risky. A number of
NGOs who operate as rural credit financing agencies offer loans to the rural poor which can, inter-alia,
be used to buy cycle rickshaws. However, in most cases the loans are not tailored specifically to
rickshaw purchase - thus, for example, the maximum credit limit may be too low for a poor person to
buy a new cycle rickshaw.



128                                  Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 5
3.    Objective, Benefits and Strategy for the Pilot Program to Improve NMT
The objective of the pilot program is to improve the performance and safety, increase the
reliability, improve the efficiency and load-carrying capacity, and increase the passenger comfort of
NMT.
The benefits will be reduced operating costs and improved levels of transport services at lower
fares, thus increasing the contribution of NMT to an efficient rural transport and trading system, and
sustaining and increasing the opportunities for the rural poor to generate income from production,
operation and repair of NMT. Furthermore, in combination with upgrading rural roads to all year
accessibility (not necessarily for motorized vehicles, but at least for NMT) under the project, mobility
and accessibility of the rural poor to centers of economic activity, health and education will be
improved substantially.
The strategy for the pilot program to improve NMT is determined primarily by learning from
past failures, and adopting an approach that will maximise the chances of success. The key features of
the strategy are as follows:
The program will focus first on improvements in cycle rickshaw design, second on design
improvements for bullock carts (with emphasis on alternatives for narrow-rimmed, damaging
wheels). Thirdly, the program will also examine the problems faced by women in using NMT
for their transport tasks and will introduce adapted designs (e.g. women bicycles) to cater for
women's transport needs. On a small scale, the program will demonstrate successful
technologies, developed abroad, such as bicycle trailers and wheelbarrows. The program will
learn by experience, and have the flexibility to adjust priorities based on that experience.
*     The program  will not attempt to introduce a 'better rickshaw'. Rather it will focus on
improvements to the design of specific aspects of the cycle rickshaw - eg. bodywork,
transmission, braking, front fork, wheels, etc. - which can be retro-fitted to existing rickshaws
as well as incorporated into newly-manufactured vehicles, and which can be produced in the
existing workshops. This will allow the many thousands of existing rickshaw pullers to benefit
from the improvements without making a large investment in a new vehicle.
*     The program will work from the start together with its target groups - rickshaw owners and
pullers, rickshaw makers, bullock cart owners and makers, and women. It will be guided by
their priorities for design improvements, and will work in partnership with them to develop,
test, modify and finalize the improved designs.
*     The program will emphasize the promotion and dissemination of the improved designs within
the project area and to other parts of the country, and the provision of credit to the rural poor
to purchase the improved designs. To this end it will from the start generate the interest of,
and involve, rural credit financing agencies and government, NGO and private sector actors
who can contribute to dissemination.
*     One successful technology to be demonstrated is a simple wheel-making technology, developed
and proven by the Intermediate Technology Development Group (ITDG), which can be used



129                                 Annex 2.4
Page 5 of 5
by existing small workshops to make strong, light, low-cost wheels for rickshaws, for rubber-
tyred bullock carts, for bicycle trailers and for other NMT.
4.    Implementation of Pilot Program
The pilot program will be in two Phases - Development and Dissemination - each of two years
duration. LGED will sub-contract the implementation of the program to an NGO, with the first phase
beginning in January 1997. The contracted NGO will combine the capability to work in a participatory
manner with grassroot NGOs and target groups in rural areas with the technical capacity needed to
develop the improved designs and the resources to organise and conduct training of local workshops in
the project area. Limited provision is made in Phase 1 for technical assistance to support the NGO in
technical and socio-economic aspects. LGED will select the NGO to execute the program, following
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency. To avoid delays in implementation of the component, LGED will invite shortlisted
NGOs no later than September 1, 1996, to submit their proposals and award the contract for Phase I
by March 10, 1996.



130                                 Annex 2.5
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTEANCE PROJECT (RRMIMP 2)
EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROJECT
1.    Strategy
An inventory of the existing stock of equipment - construction, transport, laboratory and office
equipment - in each of the fourteen project Districts has been carried out.
The equipment procurement strategy for the project is:
a)    To provide the necessary vehicles, and office and training equipment, for efficient
operation of the Project Implementation Office (PIO).
b)    To ensure that each project District has:
-     sufficient reliable construction  equipment, in good  working  order so  that
implementation of civil works is not delayed by lack of equipment;
-     a well-equipped laboratory, and field testing equipment, so that quality control of civil
works can be maintained through laboratory and field testing of soils and materials;
-     sufficient vehicles - four-wheel drive, pick-up, motor cycles and bicycles - for effective
operation of the District and Thana offices, and to ensure the mobility of staff that is
necessary for effective supervision of works;
-     essential office and communications equipment for efficient project administration and
reporting;
-     essential training equipment.
c)    Initially to equip the PIO, and the five Districts in the Greater Dhaka Area which,
because they have not yet benefited from an RDP, have only very limited equipment.
Subsequently to procure additional equipment for the remaining nine project Districts to
replace existing equipment which will reach the end of its useful working life during the course
of project implementation.
d)    To introduce in each of the project Districts the items of low-cost, appropriate, locally-
made construction and maintenance equipment that the project will develop, for use on project
civil works and for demonstration to contractors.



131                                 Annex 2.5
Page 2 of 7
2.    Construction Equipment
The procurement schedule for, and allocation of, construction equipment is shown in the attached
Table. Based on the present inventory of construction equipment the schedule aims to ensure the
continuing availability in each project District of the following standard stock of construction
equipment:
2     Road Rollers (10-12 tonne)
1     Ride-On, Twin-Drum Vibrating Roller (3 tonne)
2     Pedestrian Vibrating Rollers (1-1.5 tonne)
2     Vibrating Plate Compactors
2     Tractors (45kw)
2     Tractor-towed Compaction Rollers (6 tonne)
2     Tractor-towed Trailers
2     Water Bowsers
3     Mobile Asphalt Mixers
3     Concrete Mixers
3     Concrete Vibrating Pokers
1     Truck (4-6 tonne)
For the low-cost, appropriate construction equipment, the aim is to supply each District with two
samples of each item, except that three samples of the manual compaction roller will be supplied to
each District. Initial samples will be supplied to six Districts in 1997/98 for testing, and all Districts
will be fully equipped in 1998/99.
3.    Supervision Vehicles
The procurement schedule for, and allocation of, supervision vehicles is shown in the attached Table.
Based on the present inventory of vehicles, the schedule aims to ensure the continuing availability of
vehicles as follows:
*     Project Implementation Office
3     Four-Wheel-Drive Vehicles
1     Micro-Bus
5     Motor Cycles
2     Bicycles
*     Each Project District
1     Four-Wheel-Drive Vehicle
1     Pick-Up
4     Motor Cycles
1     Bicycle
*     Each Project Thana
3     Motor Cycles
4      Bicycles



132                                 Annex 2.5
Page 3 of 7
4.    Laboratory Equipment
The eight RRMIMP Districts and Manikganj District (RDP-6) already have fully equipped LGED
laboratories. The project will fully equip laboratories in the remaining five Districts, and make some
provision (US$ 15,000 per District) for additional/replacement items of laboratory equipment in the
other nine Districts. The standard set of equipment for each of the five new laboratories is shown in
the attached Table.
5.    Office Equipment
The procurement schedule for, and allocation of, office equipment is shown in the attached Table.
Based on the present inventory of office equipment, the schedule aims to ensure the continuing
availability of office equipment as follows:
*     Project Implementation Office
4     Computers and Printers
3     Photocopiers
2     Facsimile Machines
3     Desk Calculators
3     Scientific Calculators
*     Each Project District
1     Computer and Printer
1     Photocopier
1     Facsimile Machine
1     Ammonia Printer
1     Desk Calculator
1     Scientific Calculator
Each Project Thana
1     Typewriter
1     Duplicator
1     Desk Calculator
6.    Training Equipment
The schedule for procurement of training equipment aims to ensure availability of one
overhead projector and one slide projector in each project District, plus two of each item in the PIO,
together with levelling sets and miscellaneous items required for field training in construction methods.
This will require the procurement of seven overhead projectors, seven slide projectors, 20 levelling
sets plus miscellaneous items.



Procurement Plan - Construction Equipment
,, .:.,, ''',. - , ' ' ' ' ,, ",, -''' ''''''"''' '. , , ....................   ....  ...  .  ...   ,  ....  .. m
Standard Construction Equipment
Road Roller                                    96/97             5               -                        98/99         8         13
3-3.5 Vibrating Roller                         96/97             5             96/97          1           98/99         8         14
Pedestrian Vibrating Roller                    96/97            10             96/97          2           98/99        16         28
Plate Compactor                                96/97            10             96/97          2           96/97         8         28
98/99         8
Tractor                                        96/97             3               -                        98/99         8         11
Trailer                                        96/97             8                                        98/99        16         24
Water Brouser                                  96/97             10              -                        98/99         4         14
Concrete Mixer                                 96/97             5             98/99           1          98/99         8         14
Concrete Vibrating Poker                       96/97             15            96/97           1          96/97         8         32
98/99        8
Truck                                          96/97             4             98/99           1          98/99         8         14
98/99            1                                          -
Spares for Rehabilitation                                        -               -             -      97/98 & 98/99    L.S.      L.S.
Low-Cost, Appropriate Construction Equipment
Bitumen Heater                                 97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        16         28
98/99            5             98/99           1
Aggregate Heater                               97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        16         28
98/99            5             98/99           1
BC Mixer                                       97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        16         28
98/99            5             98/99           1
BC Transport Trolley                           97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        16         28
98/99            5             98/99           1
Bitumen Distributor                            97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        16         28
98/99            5             98/99           I
Bitumen Trolley                                97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        16         28
98/99            5             98/99           1
Manual Compaction Roller                       97/98             5             97/98           1          98/99        24         42
98/99            10            98/99           2
Mobile Asphalt Mixer                           97/98             1             97/98           1          97/98         1         3      g
'



Procurement Plan - Supervision Vehicles
'S10-00.;';:. .>nb l3Ut0    .-'.'.:  -:'l;':': ;:  '   ;- '  :':' :'' '1; ""'::' '   ' ::'-"-''":":':'-;1'""'' 0 t ................... ..............................
Four Wheel                        96/97                4              97/98                1              97/98               4               96/97                3                17
Drive Vehicle                     98/99                1   .                                              98/99               4
Microbus                                               -                 -                 -                 -                 -              96/97                1                 I
Pick-up                            96/97               5              96/97                1              97/98               4                  -                 -                14
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _98/99   4                              _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
Motor Cycle                        96/97              119             98/99               17              97/98               60              96/97                5               311
98/99              60
99/00              50
Bicycle                            96/97              133              96/97              29              96/97              264              96/97                2                428
co t
0 



135                                          Annex 2.5
Page 6 of 7
Standard Set of Labratory & Field Testing Equipment
, ,tmm                     Q:   ,   u
*  Set of Balances, various Types                 1
*  Fine Aggregate Sieve Set                       I
*  Coarse Aggregate Sieve Set                     1
*  Oven                                           1
*   Field Density (Sand Cone) Set                 2
*  Field Density (Core Cutter) Set                2
*  Standard Proctor Set                          2
*  Atterberg Limit Set                            1
*  Concrete Cube Mould                            9
*  Concrete Cylinder Mould                       12
*  Comprehensive Test Equipment                   I
*  CBR Testing Equipment                          I
*   DCP Test Set                                  3
*  Slump Cone                                     3
*  Flaking Gauge                                 10
*  Speedy Moisture Tester                         1
*  Aggregate Impact Value Tester                  1
*   Sieve Shaker                                  I
*  Concrete Test Hammer                           2
*  Soil Penetrometer                              1
*  Bitumen Thermometer                            3
*  Aggregate Crushing Value Tester                1
*  Vicat Apparatus                               10
*  Cement Casting Mould                          10
*  Merlin Surface Roughness Tester                I
*  Allowance for Miscellaneous Items



Procurement Plan - Office Equipment
tf  1SSa:xl 0Xts.< ed''   t<t                                                                   g~~~~~Otf~q4
Computer and Printer       96/97          5           98/99           1           96/97           4           96/97           4            18
98/99          4
Photcopier                 96/97          4           98/99           1           98/99           8           96/97           3            17
98/99          1
Typewriter                 96/97          26          96/97           7           98/99          64                                        97
Duplicator                 96/97          26          96/97           7           98/99          64                                        97
Fax                        96/97          4           98/99           1           98/99           8           96/97           2            16
98/99           1
Ammonia Printer            96/97          5           98/99           1           98/99           8                                         14
Desk Calculator            96/97          32          96/97           8           96/97          72           96/97           3            114
Scientific Calculator      96/97          5           96/97           1           96/97           8           96/97           3             17
-J r



137                                Annex 2.6
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT (RRMIMP 2)
TRAINING COMPONENT UNDER THE PROJECT
1.    Objectives, Policy and Administrative Issues
Training is the essential method for acquiring knowledge, skills and for changing attitude in order to
cope with the quickly changing world. Development of competence of staff within LGED is
prerequisite in order to: assume the wider role played by LGED in rural infrastructure development -
not only related to hard-core engineering but also related to other aspects of development, like,
monitoring impact of infrastructure on socio-economic development, community participation in
infrastructure planning etc.; take up the challenging tasks of increased work-load; and cope with the
rapidly changing technology with regard to infrastructure planning, development and maintenance.
With donors' support LGED has taken a very ambitious program for the staff and some groups outside
LGED . On top of the program undertaken by LGED with regard to training of LGED staff, there is
still some opportunity to support LGED in its effort to develop trained manpower in order to cope with
the added responsibility warranted by this project and other projects. The following sections deal with
the current aspects of training in LGED; objectives, policy and administrative aspects of the training
program to be undertaken under this project.
2.    Training and LGED
The training activities at LGED started in the former Works Program Wing (WPW) in 1981 which
gained a real momentum in 1984 with the establishment of Local Government Engineering Bureau
(LGEB). At present all training programs in LGED are coordinated and implemented through the Head
Quarter Training Unit (HQTU) at Dhaka and fifteen other District Training Centers (DTC). The
Training Unit is headed by a Superintending Engineer (SE) who is assisted by an expatriate Training
Adviser and local training specialists and two Senior Training Specialists (STSs), three Training
Specialists (TSs), one Assistant Training Specialist (ATS) and fifteen District Training Officers
(DTOs). District Executive Engineers of LGED provide administrative support to the DTOs when
required.
The responsibilities of the LGED Training Units include:
* develop an overall policy for LGED training
* assess training needs for different categories of staff
* develop training materials for all courses
* arrange and conduct training courses at HQ and district levels in order to fulfill national training
requirements in the sector
* arrange and conduct on-the-job-training during preparation and implementation of schemes
* provide assistance for specific training programs of all projects under LGED
X Action plan for Direction in Management Development of LGED, Report of the Management Capability
Strengthening (MANCAPS) project, ISO, Swedish Management Group, 1995



138                                   Annex 2.6
Page 2 of 5
* arrange conferences, seminars, workshops, study tours etc. for LGED
Training Unit provides training for Projects Directors (PDs), Executive Engineers (XENs), Thana
Engineers/Assistant Engineers and other staff at the Thana and District level. The training program is
based on the a need assessment made five years ago. Currently another need assessment exercise is
being conducted by the Training Unit. Future training program will be based on the needs assessed
from this exercise.
HQTU is responsible for the overall coordination of all training courses. The courses offered by the
HQTU are conducted by the concerned TS. DTOs conduct those courses which are conducted in the
district level. The HQTU and District offices of the Training Unit are organized and well equipped
with modern teaching aids and the staff are professionally competent.
* In addition to the implementation of the National Training Program, HQTU of LGED also
centrally coordinate the training courses planned under different projects implemented by LGED.
The TU also provides assistance to different projects in conducting project specific training
courses. The TU has also shown its flexibility in responding to the needs of LGED arise from time
to time due to the change of training needs - like training on environmental and socio-economic
aspects - and targeted trainee - like, contractors, laborers.
3.    Objectives of the Training Program Under the Project
3.1   Immediate Objectives:
* to increase capability of LGED staff to implement project components effectively;
* to increase capability of local government bodies (Union Parishads, Market and Ghat Management
Committees) with respect to local level infrastructure planning following users input approaches;
* to increase technical and management capability of local contractors.
3.2    Long-Term Objectives
* to increase sustainability and efficiency of rural infrastructure investments with optimum input
from all actors in the process.
4. Training Strategies
The training component of the project will have the following strategies:
*     the component will play a complementary role to the ongoing training activities of LGED;
* the courses offered under the training component will be chosen in such a way that it will have
sustainable impact;
* the project will finance on priority basis training related to the components either first introduced
with an option for institutionalization or other components with an options for institutionalization
in this rural development project - participatory planning, equipment management and cost



139                                 Annex 2.6
Page 3 of 5
accounting, socio-economic monitoring and evaluation (SEM&E), capability enhancing of local
contractors, management and maintenance of markets and ghats etc.; and
on-the-job training will be encouraged in order to link training with real working situations.
5.    Training Under RRMIMP 2
5.1    Local Training
The project specific training activities under the project will include, inter alia, the following:
(i)    Training on Management/Project Management
(ii)   Planning (including condition surveys), contracting, supervision and inspection, and
monitoring and reporting of road maintenance.
(iii)   Courses on construction method, quality control, and reporting procedures for
construction of FRBs and FRB structures, markets and ghats.
(iv)   Courses on construction method, quality control and reporting procedures for
construction of drainage structures on rural roads, which is a major component of the
project.
(v)    planning and implementation procedures for the SRR component and the provision of
advisory support to the Union Parishads.
(vi)   Rural transport issues
(vii)  Community participation in infrastructure planning with an especial emphasis on the
selection, design, operation and maintenance of schemes under the structures on rural
roads, markets and ghats components.
(viii)  Local bodies training (Union Parishads, market and ghat Management Committees)
with an emphasis on information sharing and users input approaches regarding the
implementation procedures for the SRR component and management and maintenance
of markets and ghats.
(ix)   labour groups training on tree plantation and caretaking, routine embankment
maintenance, culvert pipe production and installation of pipe culverts.
(x)    Contractor training with emphasis on technical and management aspects of contracting,
management of construction equipment, bill payment procedures etc.
(xi)   Socio-economic monitoring and evaluation (SEM&E) related training.
In addition to the above trainings the project will finance the national training program of LGED.



Annex 2.6
Page 4 of 5
5.2    Foreign Training
The project will finance two types of foreign training: overseas study tours in the Asian region by
LGED staff and attendance of LGED staff involved in the project at relevant overseas short training.
The study tours will encompass, inter alia, local level participatory planning approaches and
maintenance procedures practiced in some selective Asian countries.
The short overseas training courses for LGED staff involved in the project will focus, inter alia, on
the construction management, project management with especial emphasis on the computer application
of project management and economic analysis of rural infrastructure projects.
6.     Cost Break-up
A provision of 36.60 million Taka (0.92 million US$) was kept for training and study tours under the
project. A tentative break-up of the total amount is provided below:
Stud   ours f 2-eek dratio  for30 erons   20,00  Me-~i~   7.5
Local Training        c      f  15 e         4              -67
Projemt Specific Training                       625       20,000        12.50
Total                                                                   36.60
A detailed training program of the training component for the project period is attached in Attachment-
I.
7.   Administrative Issues
The Project Director will have the overall responsibility to implement the training component of the
project. He will be assisted constantly by the Senior Training Coordinator (STC) of the Project
Implementation office (Headquarters) and the District Training Engineers in this respect. The Project
Implementation Office will maintain close liaison with the Training Unit of LGED in relation to the
planning and implementation of the training courses of the project. Before the beginning of each
financial year, the Project Director with the help of the STC and the Training Unit will chalk out
detailed training program for training related component of this project for the following financial
year. The Project Director will ensure that the training programs undertaken under the project is
included in the Training Calendar of LGED with name of the specific courses and duration of such
courses. The courses which are envisaged to have direct implication on the planning and
implementation of the project will be undertaken as soon as the start of the project.



141                                     Annex 2.6
Page 5 of 5
For the overseas training, project related personnel - both working in the field and at the PIO - will get
preference. Upon returning from the overseas training courses, the trained personnel - individually or
in a group - will present the salient features of the overseas training in a seminar organized by the
project. The trainee(s) (overseas) will also submit to the Chief Engineer, LGED a detailed report on
the overseas training courses elaborating on the courses undertaken, training methodology adopted for
conducting such courses and relevance of such training in relation to rural infrastructure development
in Bangladesh. Unless otherwise required due to extraordinary circumstances, the overseas trained
project personnel should not be transferred from the project area within one year of returning to
Bangladesh from the overseas courses to ensure their contribution to the project. The overseas trainees
will get daily allowances as per SDC rule as SDC is the major contributor of this component.
The Project Director with the help of STC will review at least on a half yearly basis about the progress
of implementation of training component with the Training Unit. Deliberations of such a meeting will
be recorded and copy of the meeting minute should be circulated to all concerned. The Project Director
with he help of STC will also review the modules prepared by the Training Unit for project specific
training and arrange revision of modules, wherever necessary.



142                                 Annex 2.7
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT (RRMIMP-2)
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
1.           TOR FOR SMALL-SCALE CONTRACTING INDUSTRY STUDY
Objectives of the Study
The objectives of the study are:
1 .    To develop a better understanding of the nature and characteristics of small-scale civil
engineering contractors who work, or wish to work, for LGED and of the technical, financial,
commercial and management constraints to their development.
2.    To advise on improvement of the existing measures that are being applied, and additional
measures that could be adopted, by LGED under the RRMIMP-2 to increase the capability of
contractors in the project area, particularly in respect of their technical and management skills,
their ability to bid for and implement higher value and more technically demanding contracts,
and their level of ownership of equipment.
3.    To identify broader measures that could be adopted by LGED, and by LGED in co-ordination
with other agencies such as the Roads and Highways Department (RHD) and in the context of
future donor-supported projects, to develop the small-scale civil engineering contracting
industry in Bangladesh and to promote the development of a thriving plant hire contracting
industry.
Scope of Works
1 .    Review of LGED and RRMIMP-2 pre-qualification, tendering and contracting documents and
procedures, and of their experience with small-scale contractors (through discussions with
LGED staff at HQ, project, District and Thana level) and of earlier initiatives to develop
contractor capability.
2.    Review of the activities in respect of contractor development, and of equipment management
by LGED, that are being carried out under RRMIMP-2.
3.    Review  of initiatives to develop standard contract documents for donor-financed small
infrastructure works in Bangladesh, and to establish common pre-qualification of contractors
by LGED and RHD.
4.    Preparation of an overview of the extent and characteristics of the small-scale contracting
industry, primarily through examination of LGED's records and procedures for pre-qualifying
contractors to work on RDP projects, and of their experience of these contractors. This,
together with analysis of other sources of information will provide the basis to develop an
assessment of the extent of the small-scale contracting industry, and a classification of different



143                                   Annex 2.7
Page 2 of 11
categories of small-scale contractors based on key indicators such as equipment owned, number
of skilled and qualified staff, and types of work that they are able to undertake.
5.     Based on this analysis, a detailed survey (which might include workshops with groups of
contractors) of a cross-section of different categories of small-scale contractors in the project
area. This cross-section will include contractors pre-qualified for and working on RRMIMP-2
contracts (some of these in the RDP-7 areas will have several years of experience of such
work, while others in the Greater Dhaka area will have only limited experience); and other
contractors who wish to work for LGED, including those who have failed to pre-qualify and
those who undertake smaller works for the RHD. The purposes of the survey are to:
i)     define the business structure and financial situation of the different categories of small-
scale contractors, and identify the financial constraints that they face in taking on
different types of contract with LGED and other agencies;
ii)    define the numbers and types of unskilled, skilled, and qualified staff that they employ,
and the basis of employment (e.g. casual, fixed-term or permanent);
iii)   assess the perceptions of small-scale contractors about the long-term security of their
businesses, the types and level of commercial risks involved, and the constraints that
they face in investing in longer-term business development (e.g. in employing technical
staff on a permanent basis);
iv)    examine the attitudes towards and constraints to investment in equipment, and attitudes
towards the development of plant hire companies;
v)     assess needs for developing the technical and management capability of the contractors.
6.     Discussions with other interested parties in Bangladesh - including other government agencies
(and in particular the RHD and the Institutional Development Component of its RRMP2
project), IDA and SDC and other donor agencies, the Dhaka office of the IFC, leasing
companies, equipment manufacturers and importers, banks who have small-scale contractors as
clients, and contractors' associations - to assess:
i)    issues relating to financing of small-scale contractors by commercial banks;
ii)    the feasibility of and mechanisms for co-ordinated actions to develop the small
contracting industry;
iii)   the feasibility of and mechanisms for, financing the purchase of construction
equipment, including supporting the development of plant hire companies, and the
possible role of the IFC;
iv)    the potential role of contractors' associations in assisting the development of the small-
scale contracting industry.
7.     Preparation of a report of findings and conclusions, together with specific recommendations
on:
i)    improvements to existing measures, and additional measures to be adopted, by LGED
under the RRMIMP-2 to increase the capability of contractors in the project area,
particularly in respect of their technical and management skills, their ability to bid for
and implement higher value and more technically demanding contracts, and their level
of ownership of equipment;



144                                 Annex 2.7
Page 3 of 11
ii)    broader measures by LGED, and by LGED in co-ordination with other agencies and in
the context of future donor-supported projects, to develop the small-scale civil
engineering contracting industry in Bangladesh, and to encourage the development of a
plant hire contracting industry, with recommendations on institutional mechanisms and
implementation modalities to apply these measures.
A summary of findings will be prepared, and a one-day workshop will be conducted with
LGED, project, and financing agency staff, representatives of small-scale contractors and other
interested parties (as defined in Para. 6 of the scope of works) to review the findings prior to
the finalisation of the report.
Inputs
It is envisaged that the study will require:
*     A two-month input by an international specialist with extensive experience, including Asia
region experience, of the development of small-scale civil engineering contracting industries.
*     Inputs of two months each by two national consultants - a contracting specialist and an
enterprise development specialist, each with extensive relevant experience.
*     All necessary support services including transport, office services and communications.
LGED and the RRMIMP-2 project will ensure all necessary advisory support and access to relevant
information and personnel.
2.         TOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR UNIT COSTS STUDY
Objectives of the Study
The objectives of the study are to:
*     Develop a model which can be applied by the RRMIMP-2, and by the other RDPs in LGED,
for the compilation of standard unit cost rates for the major work items in the construction of
improved FRBs, culverts and bridges on FRBs and Rural Roads, and improved facilities at
Growth Centres, and in the periodic maintenance of FRB roads and structures. Also to define
the most reliable sources of the information to estimate actual costs incurred by contractors.
*     Apply this model to prepare standard RRMIMP-2 unit cost rates for the major items of
construction and maintenance works, and define the procedure for annual updating of the unit
cost rates.
Scope of Works
1.    Review of the existing RRMIMP-2 contract documents, Bills of Quantities, and estimates of
unit cost rates.
2.    Discussions with other RDPs and with the LGED Design Cell to review and analyse variations
in Bills of Quantities and estimates of unit costs rates within LGED.
3.    Review of the full economic rates for hire of LGED equipment to contractors developed in
each of the 14 project Districts under the RRMIMP-2.



145                                  Annex 2.7
Page 4 of 11
4.     Review, with a sample of RRMIMP contractors in different project Districts, of their
compilation of unit cost rates (rate analysis), and of their estimates of:
-      labour and equipment productivities;
-      labour and equipment cost rates;
-      material costs;
-      other direct cost components;
-      overheads and profits that they must incorporate into their unit cost rates;
-      lump sum costs.
5.    Cross-checking of the competitiveness and validity of the cost, productivity, overhead and
lump sum estimates used by contractors in their rate analyses. This will comprise:
-      field investigations in the same project Districts including discussions with materials
suppliers, LGED staff and other sources of cost data, and site analyses of productivity
rates and of labour costs;
-      identification and analysis of other sources of cost information, including available
statistical data and relevant reports produced by LGED projects.
6.    Preparation, review with RRMIMP and other project and LGED Design Cell staff, and
finalisation of recommended formats for calculating standard unit cost rates for all major
construction and periodic maintenance work items.
7.     Using these formats, preparation of draft recommended standard RRMIMP-2 unit cost rates.
Comparison of these with the existing project rates and, based on review of findings with
relevant RRMIMP and LGED Design Cell staff, preparation of final recommended standard
unit cost rates.
8.    Preparation of a final report of findings and recommendations which fully addresses the study
objectives, and defines the procedure for annual estimation of up-dated standard unit cost rates.
Inputs
It is envisaged that the study will require:
*     A six week input by an international specialist with extensive experience, including Asia region
experience, of small-scale contracting and cost estimation.
*     A two month input by a national consultant civil engineer with extensive experience of the
costing of civil works and the ability to work effectively supporting the international specialist
to collect realistic cost data from the field.
*     All necessary support services including transport, office services and communications.
LGED and the RRMIMP-2 project will ensure all necessary advisory support and access to relevant
information and personnel.
3.                TOR FOR FRB REGIONAL PRIORITISATION STUDY
Objectives of the Study
The objectives of the study are to:
*     Develop guidelines for prioritising the needs for investment in improvement of FRBs between
the 64 Districts in the country, which can be applied in making decisions on the geographic



146
Annex 2.7
Page 5 of 11
allocation of financing agency resources for RDPs and GOB resources for FRB improvement.
*     Develop guidelines for selecting and prioritising specific FRB roads to be improved in a
particular area.
The findings of the study will be applied, inter-alia, as inputs to the identification and preparation of a
new RDP as a follow-up to the RRMIMP-2 project.
Approach, and Scope of Work
The purpose of the study is not to produce a prescriptive master plan for the development of the FRB
network in Bangladesh. Rather, it aims to:
i)    provide rational guidelines for selecting and prioritising the geographic areas for new RDP
projects, for defining the scope of FRB works in those areas, and for geographic targeting of
GOB FRB investments. This will be based on assessment of the present level of improved FRB
provision in relation to the road network needs and to the economic status and potential, and
the social situation, in the different Districts of the country;
ii)    develop standard guidelines, which can be applied across different FRB investment programs,
for selecting and prioritising specific FRB roads for improvement, taking account of the needs
for economic viability and for local participation in the selection of investment schemes to meet
local priorities.
The guidelines must also take account of the future availability of GOB revenue financing for routine
and periodic maintenance of the improved FRBs, in order to sustain the investments made.
The study will involve:
1.    Review with LGED of its existing FRB data-base (comprising a comprehensive road inventory
and maps), complemented by selective field surveys and collection of additional data from
LGED District Offices as necessary, to define the present extent, surfacing and condition of
the FRB network (including structures on FRBs) by District.
2.     Review of the criteria actually used by LGED to define this network; the costs of routine and
periodic maintenance of improved FRBs; and the present and likely future availability of GOB
revenue funds for such maintenance. Based on this, and to the extent necessary, refine the
criteria and define a smaller, 'core' maintainable FRB network and its distribution across the
Districts, and assess the cost of improving and upgrading this network to good, all-weather
bitumen surfaced standard.
3.     Definition of easily quantifiable indicators to compare the present level of provision of
improved, bitumen surfaced, good condition FRBs in the 64 Districts in relation to the present
economic status, future economic potential and social situation of those Districts. This will
draw upon, but refine and expand, the indicators used in the IDA/LGED rural infrastructure
strategy study.
4.     Using these indicators, and with selective additional field surveys as necessary, preparation of
an analysis of the present level of improved FRB provision by District.
5.     Based on the analysis of the maintainable FRB network and the present level of improved FRB
provision:
-      preparation of guidelines for selecting and prioritising Districts for FRB investments;



147
Annex 2.7
Page 6 of 11
preparation of guidelines for assessing the scope of FRB improvement works in any
District;
presentation of recommendations on any specific areas which are high priorities for
FRB investment, and on the scope for investments there;
-     definition of procedures that can be applied by LGED to update the analysis of the
network and the level of FRB provision.
6.    Review  with LGED of the methodologies used by different LGED  rural infrastructure
programs to select FRB investment schemes; of the LGED socio-economic monitoring and
evaluation (SEM&E) activities and findings; of efforts to harmonise SEM&E in LGED; and of
methodologies used in LGED for local participation in selection of priorities for FRB
improvement.
7.    Based on this review, and complemented by selective field investigations, preparation of
guidelines for selecting and prioritising specific FRB roads to be improved in a particular area,
including local participation in the identifications.
8.    Review of all findings and recommendations with LGED and the IDA and the SDC prior to
finalising the report.
Inputs
It is envisaged that the study will require:
*     A ten week input by an international transport economist/planner with specialist experience,
including Asia region experience, in the planning and development of rural road networks.
*     Ten person-months of inputs by a team of experienced national consultants whose combined
expertise will cover transport economics, rural transport planning and rural road engineering.
*     All necessary support services including transport, office services and communications.
The consultants will work closely with the Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell, the Planning Unit
and the Management Information Systems Cell in LGED. LGED and the RRMIMP-2 project will
ensure all necessary advisory support and access to relevant information and personnel.
4.            TOR FOR LONG-TERM SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY
Objective of the RRMIMP-2 Impact Study
The objective of the RRMIMP-2 impact study is to evaluate the impact of FRB, Rural Road, market
and ghat investments, and the resulting increased efficiency in the transport and trading system, on
economic and social development within the influence area of the investments. The study will:
i)    analyse and quantify the effects of the FRB, Rural Road and ghat investments on transport;
ii)    analyse and quantify the effects of the market investments on marketing;
iii)   in respect of economic development, evaluate and quantify the impact of the different
categories of transport investments, and of market investments, on agricultural production and
productivity, business activity, direct and indirect employment, income-generation and poverty
alleviation, and consumption and investment.



148
Annex 2.7
Page 7 of 11
iv)    in respect of social development, focus on evaluating and quantifying the impact of the road
improvements on the efficiency and use of rural health (including family planning) and
education services.
The study will evaluate the impact of the investments on all sectors of the rural population in the area,
but will be designed in such a way that the impact on sub-sectors of the rural population which are of
special interest - the poor, destitute women, women engaged in income-generating activities, transport
operators including rickshaw pullers, vehicle owners and market traders - can be evaluated.
Methodology
The methodology will be based on, but refined and extended from, that used for the RDP-7 impact
study. In addition to the RDP-7 FRB roads for which some data has already collected, the study will
focus on RRMIMP-2 FRB roads and markets to be improved (including markets where the adjacent
ghat will also be improved), and Rural Roads where SRRs are to be constructed, in the 1996/97
Financial Year. Samples of these FRB and RR roads and markets (including ghats) will be selected for
detailed investigation, together with 'control' roads, markets and ghats which will not be improved
during the duration of the study. Benchmark Surveys will be carried out prior to the construction
works, and Follow-Up Surveys will be carried out at two stages after the works have been completed -
one year after completion to collect data for analysis of short-term effects and impacts; and three years
after completion to collect data for analysis of longer-term effects and impacts.
Based on the RDP-7 study the survey methodology will comprise:
i)    selection of survey villages within the influence area of, but at different distances from, each
sample road and market;
ii)    surveys in each village with a sample of households to collect household level data. The sample
will be stratified to cover different land-owning classes - landless and marginal (up to 0.4 ha.),
medium (0.4-1.0 ha.) and large (more than 1.0 ha.) - plus the population sub-groups which are
of special interest. The Benchmark and Follow-Up Surveys will use the same household
samples;
iii)   community, 'key informant' and any other surveys to collect other necessary data, e.g. in
relation to markets, schools, heath centres, business enterprises, price and wage levels, and the
effects of the road improvements on transport; and in relation to 'special interest' sub-samples
such as transport operators and market traders.
Scope of Work and Implementation Arrangements
The RRMIMP-2 impact study will be carried out under contract to LGED by the same consultants who
are already carrying out the RDP-7 impact study. These consultants have specialised expertise in the
conduct of rural impact studies, and this arrangement allows the data and findings from the RDP-7
study to be incorporated into the larger study.
The study will be managed by the LGED Additional Chief Engineer (Design, Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation) and the consultants will co-ordinate with the SEM&E unit the RRMIMP-2 Project
Implementation Office. The services of LGED field staff will be used to the extent possible for data
collection but the consultants will be fully responsible for the efficient and effective conduct of the
study, including supervision of all data collection.



149                                  Annex 2.7
Page 8 of 11
Prior to commencing work the consultants will prepare, for review and approval by LGED and the
IDA, a proposal for the conduct of the study which will:
i)    define the possible impacts to be evaluated, and the indicators which will be used to evaluate
those impacts;
ii)    summarise the types of data to be collected, the methods of data collection, and the analytical
procedures that will be adopted to derive findings on the impact of the infrastructure
investments;
iii)   define the arrangements for incorporation of the data-base and findings from the RDP-7 study
into the larger study;
iv)    define the sampling frame - numbers of FRB and RR roads and markets, numbers and location
of villages, sizes of stratified survey samples - to ensure that the findings on the impacts of the
investments on different sectors of the rural population are statistically significant. This
sampling frame will take account of the fact that there will be some decay of the original
sample - as a result of death, people moving away from the area, etc. - between successive
surveys;
v)    define the procedure for use of 'controls' to isolate the impacts of the investments from other
economic and social changes that take place in the study area over the duration of the study;
vi)    present a work plan for the conduct of the study;
vii)   define the resources and budget required for the conduct of the study.
The study will be carried out in three Phases:
Phase 1:      Benchmark Survey. July 1996 to March 1997
Prior to commencing this Phase the consultants will present their proposal for review and approval.
The Phase 1 work will involve:
-      the preparation of the questionnaires;
-      recruitment and training of survey staff;
-     pre-testing of questionnaires;
-      field work and sampling data collection to select the stratified samples of households;
-      conduct of field benchmark surveys;
-      data processing; and
-     preparation of report on Benchmark Survey.
(Between Phases 1 and 2 the second phase of the RDP-7 study will be carried out).
Phase 2:      Follow-Up Survey and Analysis of Short-Term Effects and Impacts
July 1998 to March 1999
The Phase 2 work will involve:
-      refinement of the methodology;
-      preparation of survey questionnaires;
-      recruitment and training of survey staff;
-      pre-testing of questionnaires;



150                                 Annex 2.7
Page 9 of I1
submission of a Phase 2 Inception Report which will present the refinements to the
methodology and the questionnaires, and the detailed program for field data collection;
field work and sampling data collection of households - this will collect follow-up data
on broad activity levels such as land ownership and occupational changes in
households;
conduct of field follow-up surveys;
data processing; and
preparation of report on the first Follow-Up Survey and findings on short-term effects
and impacts.
Phase 3:     Follow-Up Surveg. Analysis of Longer-Term Effects and Impacts. and
Final Report on Impact Study. July 2000 to June 2001
The Phase 3 work will involve:
-     refinement of the methodology;
-     preparation of survey questionnaires;
-     recruitment and training of survey staff;
-     pre-testing of questionnaires;
-     submission of a Phase 3 Inception Report which will present the refinements to the
methodology and the questionnaires, and the detailed program for field data collection;
-     field work and sampling data collection of households - this will collect follow-up data
on broad activity levels such as land ownership and occupational changes in
households;
-     conduct of field follow-up surveys;
-     data processing; and
-     preparation of report on the second Follow-Up Survey and the Final Report on the
-     Socio-Economic Impact of the rural infrastructure investments.
5.    TOR FOR LOCAL RESOURCE MOBILIZATION WITH PARTICULAR EMPHASIS
ON THE UNION PARISHAD
Objectives of The Study
The broad objectives of the study will be the following:
* Review of the existing situation concerning revenues and expenses at the Union Parishad
and Thana levels, with special emphasis on local resources mobilization.
* Make an inventory of the present obligations of the UP's and establish a required budget to
fulfill these obligations.
* Suggest ways and means to fill the gap between actual revenues and required budget, in
particular covering the procedural, financial and institutional aspects of local resource
mobilization.



151                                  Annex 2.7
Page 10 of ] 
Major Tasks and Scope of Work of the Consultancy Service
Major tasks of the consultancy service will include, inter-alia, the following:
* Review various studies carried out in Bangladesh for local resource mobilization at the Union
and the Thana levels.
*  Critically examine the rules and procedures for levy of taxes, fees etc. by the Union Parishads
and the thana level, identify difficulties/shortfalls and make proposals for revision of
rules/procedures.
* Critically examine the issue of collection of taxes/fees by the Union Parishads and the thana
levels. Compare actually raised revenue with the potential revenue income, identify
difficulties/shortfalls and make proposals for solution of rules/procedures.
* Identify new tax based and non-tax based revenue generation by the Union Parishads and the
thana levels and prescribe operational mechanisms for the same.
- Examine the possibility of distribution of other taxes, such as, Land Transfer Tax to the Union
Parishads and the Thana level.
* Examine the institutional capability of the Union Parishads and the thana level in the collection
of taxes/fees etc, identify problems and propose solutions including appropriate staffing.
* Critically examine the procedures for leasing of markets, water bodies, ghats and other
resources by the Union Parishads and the thana level, identify problems and make proposals
for improving the same.
* Critically examine the distribution pattern of the tax/fees collected and resource generated by
the Union Parishads, identify difficulties and submit proposals for their improvement.
* Identify the fund required to be contributed by the Union Parishads and the thana level for
over-all development and infrastructure construction/maintenance activities, funds generated at
present, identify shortfall and make proposals as to how the  short-fall can be met; in
particular, review and suggest measures for increasing contribution and participation of UP's
and local committees in maintenance.
* Examine the training requirement of the Union Parishads and the thana level for local resource
mobilization, existing training facilities and identify future need of training, preparation of
training courses and appropriate training modules.
* Review the financial information system of the Union Parishad and the Thana level including
the techniques of budgeting and budgetary control and suggest the necessary changes in the
design and financial statements for observance of proper financial rules and monitoring of
funds.
* Any other issue which the consultants will consider relevant and useful on the subject.



152                                 Annex 2.7
Page 11 of 11
The study will cover 14 sample unions - one union in each new district of the project area of
RRMIMP-II and 4 thanas - one in each greater district of the project area i.e. Dhaka, Pabna, Bogra and
Rajshahi. In selecting the unions and the thanas, appropriate statistical criteria will be adopted by the
consultants to make the samples representative ones.
Time Table
The study will be completed within nine months after its commencement.
Reporting
The consultants will prepare and submit the following reports:
i)    Inception Report will be submitted within 1 month from the signing of contract and
will include:- Literature review;
- Proposed methodology for the study;
- Listing of policy areas needing special attention;
The Inception Report of the Consultants will be reviewed by LGED and the
Consultants will revise the inception report on the basis of the comments of LGED
ii)    Mid-term Report: This report will be submitted by the Consultants after completion of
data collection from the field after 4 months. LGED will give comnnents on the Mid-
term Report within 1 month and the consultants will make necessary revision of the
report on the basis of comments from LGED.
iii)    Draft Final Report: This report of the Consultants will make a full and comprehensive
analysis of the data and outline the proposals/ recommendations. This report will be
submitted in 10 copies after 7 months.
The draft final report will be thoroughly reviewed by LGED at this stage in order to
incorporate the changes.
iv)    Final Report: This report will be further revised by the consultants on the basis of
comments of LGED on the draft final report. The time limit proposed is 1 month.



153                               Annex 2.8
Page 1 of 12
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
MAINTENANCE OF RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1.1   Introduction
This annex sumnmarizes the extent and objectives for maintenance of Feeder Roads B (FRB),
Rural Roads (RR), structures on FRBs and RRs and other infrastructures (markets, ghats) which are
maintainable condition in the project area of the RRMIMP-II or which will be improved under the
Project. It describes the responsibilities and organizational setup for the implementation of a sustained
maintenance program, the funding requirements and the measures to strengthen human and institutional
capacities. For the later it proposes possible links to the ongoing Institutional Development Component
(IDC) of the 2nd RRMP (RHD Project funded by ODA & IDA). Regarding the implementation of
maintenance it relies on the "Guidelines for Implementation of Rural Infrastructure Maintenance
Program", LGED, July 1995.
1.2   The Challenge for Maintenance of Road Assets
The flat and low lying terrain as well as heavy rains and high flood levels in the country
require high embankments and numerous bridges and culverts to assure an all-weather transport
network linking growth center markets to the national roads and to ensure the access for the rural
population to those poles of development. Sufficient routine and periodic maintenance will
safeguard these expensive national assets over an extended number of years. Maintenance works
generate short and long term incomes to small contractors, landless farmers and destitute women.
The upkeep of infrastructure will have a positive impact on agricultural production and income
through reduction of transport costs. Generally speaking, sustained improvement of the life of
rural (and urban) population and thus poverty alleviation will not be possible without an adequate
access to economic, social and welfare services.
2.   Objectives of Routine and Periodic Maintenance Components of RRMIMP-II
The overall development objective of the proposed project is to increase rural incomes and
reduce rural poverty by establishing an improved, sustainable rural transport and trading infrastructure.
The routine and periodic maintenance of the infrastructures shall guarantee that they function over an
extended period of time and safeguard the investments made. In line with the objectives of the project
(see Annex 2.1) the strategy shall focus on i) planning, progranmming and implementation of routine
and periodic maintenance for FRBs and structures, and important RRs in maintainable condition, ii)
supporting the maintenance of SRRs, Markets and Ghats by local bodies at Thana and Union Parishad
(UP) level, iii) use of the private sector for the execution of works (contractors, LCSs) and iv) support
to human, institutional and technical capacity building at all institutional levels of the Project.
3.    Rural Road Network and other Rural Infrastructures
3.1   Inventory and Condition of Rural Road Network in Project Area
The total rural road network of the Project area (Greater Dhaka, Rajshahi, Pabna and
Bogra Districts) which is under the current responsibility of LGED, amounts in rounded
figures, to (details of total length of the rural road network in km and structures in lin.m are in
Table 1) are as follows:
3,200 km of Feeder Roads Type B (FRB), and
29,800 km of Rural Roads (9,450 km of RI, 10,150 km of R2 and 10,200 km of R3).



154                                 Annex 2.8
Page 2 of 12
Table 1: LGED Road Network - Project Area
Roads             Structures             ,aps
Category   Number    Total    Number    Total    Number       Total
of Road             Length              Length               Length
(km)               (lin.m)   _         (lin.m)
FRB       420      3,235     3,048     16,622     597       9,609
RR1      1,777     9,446     6,951     29,609    2,692     30,371
RR2      3,023     10,160    4,544    17,741     3,349     30,581
RR3      4,781     10,216    3,326    11,408    4,458      25,754
Total    10,001    33,057    17,869    75,380    11,096     96,315
The LGED Road Inventory 1994/95 mentions 3,200 km FRB, out of which 800 km
(25%) are classified as in good, 1,900 km (59%) in average and 500 km (16%) in poor
condition. The recent increase in Growth Centers is not yet considered in these figures. Upon
completion of the 1995/96 program of RDP-6 and RDP-7, 1,100 km of the FRB network will
be surfaced, 700km with a bituminous surfacing, 400 km with a HBB or WBM surface. The
Project will increase the length of bituminous surfaced roads by 570 km, so that the final
length will be 1,270 km. About 1,000 km of RRs are surfaced, 300 km with bituminous
surfacing and 700 km with HBB or WBM. The details are shown in Table 2.
Table: 2 Surface And Condition Of Lged Roads - Project Area
Surface/                                Category of Road
Condition        FRB            RR1             RR2            RR3           Total
SURFACE
(km)
BC            450             283            20              11           764
WBM             81              34             7               -            122
HBB            456            540             100            36           1,312
Earth          2,248          8,589          10,033         10,169        31,039
Total (kIn)      3,235          9,446          10,160         10,216        33,057
CONDITION
(km)
Good           830            1,084           417            265           2,596
Average         1,928          6,472          7,449          6,943         22,792
Poor           477            1,890          2,294          3,008         7,669
Total (km)       3,235          9,446          10,160         10,216        33,057
In average, each of the 97 Thanas is responsible for approximately 33 km of FRB and 307 km of Rural
Roads, with major variations between Thanas.



155                               Annex 2.8
Page 3 of 12
3.2   Inventory of Structures on Feeder Roads-B and Rural Roads (SRR)
Many of the rural roads were first built under food for work schemes, with no funds
for mechanical compaction or for provision of structures. The rural road network in the project
area is thus characterized by a large number of gaps. The LGED inventory shows that there
are 16,600 linear meters of structures and 9,600 lm of gaps on FRBs, and 58,700 Im of
structures and 86,700 Im of gaps on RRs. Details are presented in Table 1
3.3   Inventory of Hats and Ghats
There are a total of 425 growth center markets in the project area, out of which 100
markets have been covered under the RRMIMP and 136 markets have been proposed for
improvement under RRMIMP-Il. Moreover, a total of 41 ghats have been identified for
upgrading under RRMIMP-II.
4.    Present Responsibilities of LGED and External Support
4.1    The Local Government Engineering Department(LGED)
The task and authority of the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED), an
agency of the LGD, is extensively described in Annex 1.3.
LGED's responsibilities which are directly relevant to the maintenance of rural
infrastructures in the area of the RRMIMP-2 project are:
* routine and periodic maintenance of FRBs, including structures.
*  the maintenance of important RR1 roads, and the maintenance of structures on Rural
Roads.
* the provision of technical supervision and advice to local government bodies to assist them
in fulfilling their responsibilities for the operation of rural infrastructures.
These responsibilities of LGED have to be seen equally in the national context of rural
infrastructure development, in which the department's broader infrastructure activities include
small-scale water resources, irrigation and flood control, rural water supply and sanitation,
urban infrastructure development in secondary and rural towns, and construction of cyclone
shelters and primary schools. Following the objectives of the Strategy for Rural Development
Projects, LGED emphasizes the use of labour-intensive methods for construction and
maintenance works wherever appropriate.
4.2    External Assistance to Maintenance of Rural Infrastructures
Due to the fact that the Government is responsible for maintenance, only few donor-
assisted projects (e.g. RDP-6 and RDP-7) gave attention to maintenance with the exception of
maintenance by contractors in the first year after construction. This course is changing and
more external assistance is made available to strengthen the capacity of local institutions. The
ADB financed RDP-18 is to be mentioned, where a long-term technical assistance on
maintenance management, training, and management capability strengthening is provided,
through Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell (RIMC). The RESP/ISP provides support to
RIMC, focusing on road condition surveys. This is in the context of the improvement of the
data base for planning in general at Thana level. Discussions during appraisal have shown that
the coordination and integration of data collection and utilization should be further enhanced.
The ISP Training Unit offers training in maintenance to District and Thana Engineering staff.



156                                 Annex 2.8
Page 4 of 12
5.    Local Government Bodies
5.1    Union Parishad and TDCC
Since the last local government reform in 1991, the Union Parishads (UP) have been
given increased responsibilities for the maintenance of rural infrastructures (e.g. priority
setting in planning, preparation and supervision of contracts, financial autonomy), the Project
will have to put much efforts on capacity building at that level. Through the Union Market
Management Committees (UMMC) they are responsible for operation and maintenance of
markets, too. More details of the local government system are given in Annex 1.4.
An important platform for planning and programming of rural infrastructures is the
Thana Development Coordination Committee (TDCC), regrouping the Chairmen of all Union
Parishads as the voting members; the TDCC constitutes the lowest government body. More
direct participation by the users for planning and programming of rural infrastructure works
will be enhanced by the Project. The LGED Thana Engineer sits on the TDCC as non-voting
member.
In conjunction with the Local Government Division the project will further analyze
existing shortcomings in resource mobilization and will provide practical assistance to the local
government bodies in the project area, with emphasis on greater cost recovery from the leasing
of improved markets and retention of lease monies by local government bodies. Local
financing issues are discussed in more detail in Annex 1.04.
5.2   Present Exteral Assistance at Thana and UP-level for Infrastructure Management
Only routine maintenance of RRI and RR2 is substantially covered through well
designed food for work programs (Road Maintenance Program, RMP) giving job opportunities
to the poor. Funding is through counterpart funds generated by Canadian food aid. The
management support by CARE Bangladesh has been integrated into LGED in 1995-96.
6.    Maintenance Systems and Practices
6.1   Road (routine and periodic) Maintenance System, incl. structure
Since its establishment in 1992, LGED's Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell
(RIMC) has made considerable progress in establishing the framework for road maintenance by
setting up a preliminary road inventory system, introducing national maintenance guidelines
(July 1995) and establishing a training program. The assistance by ADB is in its early stages.
Although coordination meetings among staff of projects supporting capacity building for
maintenance (RDP-6, RDP-7 and ISP) have started, no detailed plan of action for the further
development of an appropriate maintenance management system could be presented to the
mission during appraisal. Such a plan of action shall be required prior to negotiation of the
project.
Thus it was agreed that the project will, in coordination with RIMC, introduce, test
and refine a planned routine and periodic road maintenance system for the LGED network in
the project area covering all FRB roads, important RR1 roads, and structures on FRBs and
RRs. This will demonstrate how maintenance work can be planned and implemented effectively
. It is expected that experience gathered within the project will be replicated nationally by
LGED.
Since there will be a significant stock of improved, bitumen-surfaced FRBs in the
project area at the start of the project, the implementation of planned road maintenance will be



157                                 Annex 2.8
Page 5 of 12
given immediate priority. The project will finance periodic maintenance (with the following
sliding scale: 80% years 1-3, 40% in year 4 and 20% in year 5). Routine maintenance will be
financed from the GOB revenue budget. The project will finance periodic maintenance of all
FRBs & important RRs, and all structures on FRBs & RRs in the project area.
6.2    Monitoring and Review of GOBILGED Guidelines
The guidelines of GOB/LGED define the following maintenance categories:
* Routine Maintenance (day to day work including earthwork and pavement patching)
* Periodic Maintenance (pavement re-sealing and structures)
* Emergency Maintenance (mainly flood damages during monsoons)
* Rehabilitation-type Maintenance (restoration of structure to its intended purpose)
The Project will follow these guidelines but will closely monitor the proposed
maintenance programs for the fourth category. It is a category of works which is normally not
to be funded by maintenance budgets. The risk lays in investing funds for rehabilitation instead
of maintenance. Furthermore, such funds often are used also for improvement and upgrading
of roads and structures. During mid term review the experiences will be analyzed and
eventually corrective measures be proposed.
Although emergency maintenance needs can by definition not be predicted, the
presently used system of block allocation to districts seems neither to be sufficient nor properly
accounted for. Experiences will be collected and reported at mid term review with the aim to
propose a more rational and efficient allocation of budgets if and when required.
6.3   Planning and Programming
Planning and implementation of LGED maintenance is in principle under the
responsibility of the Thana Engineer (TE). There is one Sub-Assistant Engineer (SAE) to
second the TE specifically for maintenance, although this does not happen in practice. The
Executive Engineer (XEN) has the approving and overall supervision authority of all such
maintenance activities in his district. In order to match with the available budgets, desirable
maintenance works per district and Thana need to be prioritized in an iterative programming
exercise. The GOB/LGED guidelines indicate criteria for prioritization:
i)    FRB constructed under foreign- aided projects
ii)    FRB with high traffic volume
iii)   other FRB (partially paved, missing structures)
iv)    Structures on Important Rural Roads (after meeting
demand of FRB) with priority on RCC structures
While these criteria are practical at the present stage, where there is limited network,
needing mainly routine maintenance, a rational network approach will have to be introduced to
properly integrate periodic maintenance of pavements. While it is estimated that periodic
pavement maintenance will be required every 5 years in average, the detailed and economically
optimal timing and level of intervention has to be defined individually for the road section
based on:
* pavement and surface condition expected future deterioration, dependent on type and
volume of traffic
* available funds
The project shall propose simple and flexible procedures to obtain the necessary data
and define the yearly periodic and routine maintenance program. Sufficient time will be



158
Annex 2.8
Page 6 of 12
allowed to discuss the proposed annual programs prior to approval. The schedule of the
guidelines shall be monitored and any improvement can be proposed if deemed necessary. For
example, the inspection of the roads has to be carried out in May, which coincides with the end
of the construction season when LGED staff is generally very busy with supervision.
However, with the introduction of the AE & SAE maintenance positions, this bottleneck
should be removed. In the context of increased participation the project shall assist LGED in
developing and introducing procedures to expand membership of the District Maintenance
Committees to include user representatives (bus and truck, auto-rickshaw and rickshaw
operators) in order to promote sharing of information and user input into selection of
maintenance priorities.
7.    Maintenance Needs and Funding
7.1    Maintenance Needs, Costs and Preliminary Estimate
An initial assessment has been made for the requirements of all FRBs (about 3,200
km), important RRs (1,000 km) and existing structures on FRBs & RRs (45,000 linear meters)
in the project area. Tables 3 and 4 present an estimate of the needs and costs (including unit
cost) of routine and periodic maintenance within the project area, over the period 1995/96 to
2003/04. The tables are based on:
-     the existing stock and condition of the LGED network as defined in the road inventory,
excluding RR3 roads.
*     assumptions about the road improvements that will be carried out over the next nine
years (new stock).
-     the assumption that periodic maintenance should be applied to paved roads (FRBs &
RRs) and structures (FRBs & RRs) in maintainable condition, and that periodic maintenance is
required every five years.
-     unit costs of routine and periodic maintenance which are derived from the consultants
and LGED figures.
The maintenance requirements of roads and structures will increase progressively as
the roads and structures in the project area become due for maintenance following the
improvement/construction under existing projects (RDP-7 & RDP-6) and the new project
(RRMIMP-II). Details of the annual construction programs for the physical components are in
Annex 2.03 The subsequent maintenance requirements of, and the performance of routine and
periodic maintenance on the LGED road network in the project area will be monitored and
reported upon by the PIO with the assistance of the DSM consultants. The first year routine
and periodic maintenance program for the project area will be planned and prepared prior to
the project start.
7.2    Maintenance Funding
The maintenance funds allocated from the GOB revenue budget for LGED have
continuously increased from 3000 lakh Tk (US $7.5 million) in 1992-93 to 5500 lakh Tk (US
$13.8 million) in 1994-95, with a further increase to 6500 lakh Tk (US $16.3 million) for
1995-96. The main source of funds for maintenance of Rural Roads is the CARE Road
Maintenance Program (RMP). RMP was previously in the Ministry of Relief and funded
through Canadian food aid; it was transferred to LGED in 1995-96. RMP includes routine
maintenance of about 72,000 km of earth roads (mainly RRs and some FRBs) in about 3,600
Unions throughout the country (20 km per Union). Crews of destitute women (10 per Union)
are paid to maintain the roads.



159
Annex 2.8
Page 7 of 12
In addition, most of the RDPs have some budget allocation for maintenance of project
FRBs. The following Table shows the present situation of funding.
Maintenance Financing 1995/96
Location         GOB Maintenance                RD Projects                 RMP (CARE)
Funds
Bangladesh          Tk.6,500 lakh                Tk.1200 lakh           72,000 km (Tk.6500 lakh
(distributed to districts,  (in average, the maintenance  with 10% contribution of
allocation to individual roads,    component of projects is  Unions) equal to 49 % of the
both FRB and RR, as per    between I % and 5 % of the    total rural road network (RI,
XEN)                   total project costs      R2, R3) of 148,000km or
78% of the RI & R2 roads of
92,000km
Project Area        Tk.1,702 lakh                 Tk. 155 lakh            not available, but it is
(14 Districts)    (including Tk.2 lakh For     (RDP-6 & RDP-7)           assumed that the average
emergency per district)                               coverage of almost 100% of
Rural Roads RI & R2 also
______________    ____________________________  ____________________________   h olds   true for  the   Project  A rea
The estimated routine maintenance cost for 1995-96 for the project area is Tk. 1,193 lakh and periodic
maintenance cost for RRMIMP-II project period (1996-97 to 2000-2001) is Tk.12,190 lakh. It appears
that the available funds of LGED would in principle be sufficient to cover the routine maintenance of
all FRBs, important RRs and structures (FRBs & RRs) in 1995-96, whereas the RMP/CARE program
covers most of earth roads (Rl & R2) maintenance. Although the periodic maintenance costs will be
financed by the project during 1996-2001, the GOB maintenance allocation from 2001-2002 onward
has to be increased substantially to cover both routine and periodic maintenance of all rural
infrastructures in the project area.
Rehabilitation works shall only be funded from the maintenance budget if all routine and periodic
maintenance requirements are fully met.
[NOTE: Details of Maintenance funding sources and needs for the National System are given in Annex
1.31.
8.     Implementation
8.1    Routine Maintenance and Periodic Maintenance
The routine maintenance and periodic maintenance for the project are classified as
follows:
a)     Routine Maintenance of the Earth shoulders and Embankment Slopes, Care taking of
trees and Cleaning of waterways in structures:
-      trimming/filling and compaction of earth shoulders and slopes and reforming the
camber
-      cutting/removal of vegetation from road shoulders, slopes and structures
-      repair of rain-cuts , pot holes, ruts and rat-holes in the embankment
-      re-fining of turfing
-      care taking of trees



160                              Annex 2.8
Page 8 of 12
removal of debris from waterways/siltation
cleaning of bridge deck drains and weep-holes in abutments and wing walls
b)    Routine Maintenance of Road Pavement and Structures:
repair of potholes
sealing/patching of cracks
repair of depressions
repair of edges
filling and compaction of hard shoulders
replacement of missing bricks in structures
minor concrete repair to structures
c) Periodic Maintenance of Road Pavement and Structures:
-     resurfacing
-     repairs of hard shoulders
-     replacement/repair/painting of all sign posts and guard posts
-     replacement of brickwork in structures
-      replacement of poor concrete and replastering
-      reforming of the railing on the bridge deck
-     painting of steel work
8.1.1  Work Standards and Implementation Methods
Routine maintenance of embankment earth shoulders and embankment slopes,
care taking of trees and cleaning of waterways in structures will be carried out by
groups of disadvantaged women, providing them with long-term employment. LGED
will enter into direct contracts with the group.
Routine maintenance of the pavement and structures will be carried out by the
contractors. Experiences in RDP-6 and RDP-7 show that the contractors are not
interested in small maintenance contracts. The project will thus seek to propose and
test alternative methods. One option could be, to let a contract for routine maintenance
of the carriageway covering maintainable network of a district or several Thanas.
Another option is the "term contract", which will let the contract of whole network of
a district for a given period (usually one year). Other options could also be explored
and tested by the project. The RIMC is still an early stage to develop the contracting
arrangements for routine pavement maintenance. The project will assist the RIMC in
developing and refining routine maintenance contracting procedures, including with
respect to the testing of different options in the field.
The periodic maintenance works will be carried out by the local contractors
prequalified under the project using the same contracting procedures as for FRB
improvement and upgrading works. The DSM consultants will prepare the engineering
designs, tender documents and engineers' estimates and will assist the PIO in the
evaluation of tenders and the processing of contract awards. Contracts for periodic
maintenance will be let over the period September to November each year so that
works can commence the following January. The periodic maintenance works will be
supervised by LGED with the assistance from the DSM consultants who will certify all
payments to the contractors. Quality control procedures and contractor defects liability
will be the same as for FRB construction works.



161                                Annex 2.8
Page 9 of 12
The project will assist LGED at District and Thana level in all aspects of
maintenance planning, implementation and management, inventory and condition
survey, contracting inspection and supervision as well as monitoring and reporting.
The project will provide low cost equipment and tools for routine maintenance
works, together with supervision vehicles since mobility of LGED staff is essential if
maintenance at dispersed sites is to be properly planned and supervised.
8.1.2 Procurement
Civil works for routine (carriageway) and periodic maintenance of roads will
be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Contract documents will be
prepared based on those used on RDP-7; moreover, they will be made consistent both
with GOB regulations and the latest World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for
Procurement of Smaller Contracts. Prequalification of contractors for project works
will be completed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines prior to project start, and
the prequalification will be updated by screening out the poorly performed contractors
at Mid Term Review.
Civil works for tree plantation and care taking on project FRB will be procured
by direct, annual contract with groups of disadvantaged women at fixed payment rates.
Contract documents for procurement of these works will be based on existing LGED
procedures.
8.2    Maintenance Management System
Based on the experience of the RDP-7, a Project Implementation Office (PIO) will he
established with its headquarters in Dhaka, headed by a Project Director (PD). The PIO will
work directly with the offices of the LGED XENs in the 14 project districts and, through them
with the offices of the Thana Engineers. The project will finance the PIO operating costs, the
PIO incremental staff positions (including maintenance staff) at Headquarters, District and
Thana level in the project area to provide implementation support to the LGED staff.
Under the project management, there will be a maintenance unit comprising separate
maintenance staff at the Headquarters, District and Thana level. The maintenance unit will be
headed by one Assistant Engineer (a senior and experienced Engineer) at the Headquarters. He
will be supported and assisted by the Maintenance Advisers (expatriate and local) under the
DSM Consultancy. One of the Assistant Engineers (AE) at District level (either incremental
staff or LGED staff) and one of the Sub Assistant Engineers (SAE) at Thana level (either
incremental staff or LGED staff), will be exclusively responsible for all maintenance activities.
Their positions will be AE (maintenance) and SAE (maintenance) respectively. The SAE will
carry out the road inventory, condition survey, planning, programming, supervision,
monitoring and reporting of maintenance activities of all rural infrastructures in the respective
Thana with the help of DSM consultants. He will assist the Thana Engineer in the procurement
of all maintenance contracts. He will report his activities to the AE (maintenance) at district
who will coordinate the maintenance works of all Thanas in the district and will report to the
AE (maintenance) at Headquarters. The positions of SAE (maintenance) and AE (maintenance)
will be on permanent basis which will be continued even after completion of the project. This
will help to sustain the maintenance system at local level. After the completion of the project,
these positions will be integrated in the RIMC.
The maintenance unit of the project will coordinate with the RIMC and with other RD
projects on specific issues to share views and experiences. The maintenance system and
practices to be developed in the project area should also be discussed with RIMC so that the
system, if found effective, could be replicated nationally through the RIMC.



162                              Annex 2.8
Page 10 of 12
9.    Training
Training will be provided to LGED District and Thana staff to increase their capability to
implement maintenance works effectively. The training will include:
-     planning (including conduct of condition surveys)
-     inspection, supervision, monitoring and reporting
-     standardization and contracting of routine and periodic maintenance of pavements
-     work methods, techniques and implementation of routine maintenance (labour groups)
and   pavement maintenance
-     management and organization of Labour groups
The training will result in LGED staff at District and Thana level in the project area being able
and motivated to effectively plan, implement and manage routine and periodic maintenance.
The project will coordinate with the LGED training unit to design an effective training
program for maintenance in the project area in order to fulfill the objectives of the project's
maintenance component and also to avoid any duplication in training programs within LGED & the
project.
Training will be provided to local bodies (Union Parishads, Market and Ghat Management
Committee) in the Information Sharing and Users Input approaches, and in management and
maintenance of roads, structures, markets and ghats.
The project will establish a coordination with the IDC of 2nd RRMP(RHD) as far as possible
and will share information and experiences to contribute to Human Resource Development of LGED.
10.   Growth Center Markets and Ghats
The participation in selection and detailed design of growth center markets and ghats will
develop a sense of local ownership of the improved markets. The project will assist and support the
formation of Market Management Committees, and will provide them with training and assistance in
planning and managing the operation and maintenance of the improved markets. Maintenance of the
improved markets will be financed from the 15% of lease revenue allocated to the Union Parishad for
this purpose. The MMC shall play a key role in the decision for the use of the maintenance funds
which will be administered by the Thanas. The market management procedure will include, along with
other aspects, the preparation of a budget and procedures for markets maintenance, and the
implementation of routine and periodic maintenance. The day to day maintenance (cleaning) of markets
is the responsibility of the lessee which is hardly in practice. To ensure the regular cleaning, the MMC
will take over the responsibility for cleaning the market from the lease holder, but at his cost, and
employ disadvantaged people for this work. Alternatively, the amount of money required for a year for
cleaning and day to day maintenance of the markets, could be taken as security from lessee. One
twelfth of this amount could be released at the end of each month to the lessee, provided the MMC
certifies that the requisite work has been performed satisfactorily.
The project will provide assistance to the formation of Ghat Management Committee and to
establish an effective operation and maintenance system of the ghats, using the same procedures as for
the markets. Emphasis will be placed on the setting of toll rates which will generate sufficient funds
for establishing maintenance a system.



Table 3: Cost of Planned Routine Maintenance of LGED Road Network - Project Area
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01   2001/02   2002/03   2003/04
A.  ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
FRB Road Network (kum)
BC Existing Stock                              450.00    450.00    700.00    800.00    940.00   1080.00   1220.00   1310.00   1340.00
BC New Stock                                     0.00    250.00    100.00    140.00    140.00    140.00   90.00    30.00     30.00
WBM Existing Stock                              81.00     81.00    41.00     41.00    41.00     41.00     41.00    41.00     41.00
WBM New Stock                                    0.00    -40.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
HBB Existing Stock                             456.00    456.00    356.00    356.00    356.00    356.00    356.00    356.00    356.00
HBB New Stock                                    0.00   -100.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Good/Avg. Earth Existing Stock                1773.00   1773.00   1713.00   1633.00   1523.00   1413.00   1303.00   1233.00   1213.00
Good/Avg. Easrth New Stock                       0.00    -60.00    -80.00   -110.00   -110.00   -110.00    -70.00    -20.00    -20.00
Poor Earth Existing Stock                      475.00    475.00    425.00    405.00    375.00    345.00    315.00    295.00    285.00
Poor Earth New Stock                             0.00    -50.00    -20.00    -30.00    -30.00    -30.00    -20.00    -10.00    -10.00
RR1 & RR2 Road Network (km)
BC Existing Stock                              303.00    303.00    323.00    343.00    363.00    383.00    403.00    423.00    443.00
BC New Stock                                     0.00    20.00     20.00     20.00    20.00     20.00     20.00    20.00     20.00
WBM Existing Stock                              40.00     40.00    40.00     40.00    40.00     40.00     40.00     40.00    40.00
WBM New Stock                                    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
HBB Existing Stock                             640.00    640.00    640.00    640.00    640.00    640.00    640.00    640.00    640.00   >
HBB New Stock                                    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
FRB Structures (m)
Good Existing Stock                          13050.00  13050.00  14050.00  15050.00  16050.00  17050.00  18050.00  18550.00  19050.00
Good New Stock                                   0.00   1000.00   1000.00   1000.00   1000.00   1000.00    500.00    500.00    500.00
RR1 & RR2 Structures (m)
Good Existing Stock                          32129.00  32129.00  34129.00  37629.00  42129.00  46629.00  51129.00  52129.00  53129.00
Good New Stock                                   0.00   2000.00   3500.00   4500.00   4500.00   4500.00   4500.00   1000.00   1000.00
Cost of Routine Maintenance  Unit  Unit
(Tk. mil)                    km    Cost         13.50    21.00     24.00     28.20    32.40     36.60     39.30    40.20     41.10
FRB BC                       km        0.03      5.51     2.79      2.79      2.79     2.79      2.79      2.79      2.79     2.79
FRB WBM                      km       0.068     24.62     19.22    19.22     19.22     19.22    19.22     19.22     19.22     19.22
FRBHBB                       km       0.054     26.60     25.70    24.50    21.20     21.20     19.55     18.50     18.20     17.90
FRB Good/Avg. Earth          km       0.015      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
FRB Poor Earth               km           -      7.58      8.08     8.58      9.08     9.58     10.08     10.58     11.08     11.58
RR BC                        km       0.025      2.40     2.40      2.40      2.40     2.40      2.40      2.40      2.40     2.40
RR WBM                       km        0.06     28.80     28.80    28.80     28.80    28.80     28.80     28.80     28.80    28.80  b
RR HBB                       m        0.045      3.92     4.22      4.52      4.82     5.12      5.42      5.57      5.72     5.87  aQ
FRB Structures               m       0.0003      6.43      6.83     7.53      8.43      9.33    10.23     10.43     10.63     10.83
RR Structures                        0.0002                                                                                          o _   >
Total Cost of Routine Maintenance              119.34    119.02    122.32    126.57    130.82    135.07    137.57    139.02    140.47   .
" oo



Table 4: Cost of Planned Periodic Maintenance of LGED Road Network - Project Area
1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/9   1999/00  2000/01   2001/02  2002/03  2003/04
B.  PLANNED MAINTENANCE
FRB Roads Requiring PM (kn)
BC Existing Stock                            18.00    38.00    98.00    128.00   168.00    18.00    38.00    98.00    128.00
BC New Stock                                  0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   250.00   100.00    140.00    140.00
WBM Existing Stock                           12.15     7.18     8.20      9.23    10.25    12.15     7.18      8.20     9.23
WBM New Stock                                 0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
HBB Existing Stock                           68.40    62.30    71.20    80.10    89.00    68.40    62.30    71.20    80.10
HBB New Stock                                 0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
RR Roads Requiring PM (kn)
BC Existing Stock                            30.30    45.45    60.60    75.75    90.90    30.30    45.45    60.60    75.75
BC New Stock                                  0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    20.00    20.00    20.00    20.00
WBM Existing Stock                            6.00     7.00      8.00     9.00    10.00     6.00     7.00      8.00     9.00
WBM New Stock                                 0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
HBB Existing Stock                           96.00    112.00   128.00   144.00   160.00    96.00    112.00    128.00    144.00
HBB New Stock                                 0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
FRB Structures Requiring PM (m)
Good Existing Stock                        1957.50  2283.75  2610.00  2936.25  3262.50   1957.50  2283.75   2610.00  2936.25   A
Good New Stock                                0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   1000.00   1000.00   1000.00   1000.00
RR Structures Requiring PM (m)
Good Existing Stock                        4819.35  5622.58  6425.80   7229.03  8032.25  4819.35   5622.58  6425.80  7229.03
Good New Stock                                0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  2000.00  3500.00  4500.00  4500.00
Cost of Periodic Maintenance    Uni Unit
(Tk. mil)                   t    Cost         7.74    16.34    42.14    55.04    72.24    115.24    59.34    102.34    115.24
FRB BC                      km       0.47     6.20     3.66     4.18      4.70     5.23     6.20     3.66      4.18     4.7.0
FRB WBM                     km      0.51     36.25    33.02    37.74    42.45    47.17    36.25    33.02    37.74    42.45
FRBHBB                      km       0.53    10.91    16.36    21.82    27.27    32.72    18.11    23.56    29.02    34.47
RR BC                       km       0.36     2.58     3.01     3.44      3.87     4.30     2.58     3.01      3.44     3.87
RR WBM                      km       0.43    43.20    50.40    57.60    64.80    72.00    43.20    50.40    57.60    64.80
RR HBB                      km       0.45    14.68    17.13    19.58    22.02    24.47    22.18    24.63    27.08    29.52
FRB Structures              m      0.0075    24.10    28.11    32.13    36.15    40.16    34.10    45.61    54.63    58.65
RR Structures               m       0.005
Total Cost of Periodic Maintenance          145.65   168.03   218.62   256.30   298.29   277.85   243.23    316.02   353.70 
o 4



Bangladesh
Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs: Surnriary
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
Main Comnponents                                                     95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01    Total
Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads                           3.76    8.85   13.59   13.59   12.21      6.60     58.60
Maintenance of FRB                                                  -    0.93    1.65    2.04    2.55      3.59     10.76
Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Countrywide)              -    2.53    5.07   15.87   15.87    15.74    55.08
Improvement of Rural Markets                                        -    0.68    2.38    3.07    3.04      1.52    10.69
Rehabilitation/Construction of River Jetties                        -    0.10    0.48    0.66    0.76         -      2.00
Pilot Program to Improve NMT                                        -    0.08    0.15    0.32    0.29    0.12        0.96
Equipment                                                           -    2.70    0.89    3.14    0.45    0.09        7.27
Technical Assistance                                             0.34    3.75    3.39    3.37    3.81      3.78     18.45
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                    4.10   19.62   27.60   42.06   38.99   31.44    163.80
Physical Contingencies                                           0.42     1.69    2.20    3.10    2.62     1.93    11.97
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                        0.04    0.60    1.67    4.09    5.45    5.79       17.65
Foreign                                                      0.01     0.20    0.46    1.02    1.16    1.10       3.96
Subtotal Inflation                                             0.06    0.81     2.13    5.12    6.61     6.89    21.61
Devaluation                                                       -        -   -0.23   -1.04   -1.72   -2.03    -5.02
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                     0.06    0.81     1.90    4.08    4.89    4.86      16.59
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     4.57   22.12   31.70   49.23   46.50    38.23   192.36
Taxes                                                            0.27     1.97    2.15    4.00    2.90    2.20      13.49
Foreign Exchange                                                 0.97    5.55    7.67   12.36   11.01      8.67    46.22



Bangladesh
Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs: Details
(US$ Million)
Base Cost                            Foreign Exchange
95196   96197   97198   98199    99100   00101    Total        %      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads
Land Acquisition                                                  0.30     1.80    0.80     0.87        -       -      3.77         -
Upgrading FRB Roads                                               3.46     6.20    10.80    10.92    10.37   5.56     47.31      22.1    10.45
Tree Planting alongside Roads                                        -    0.04      0.13    0.13     0.11     0.16     0.57         -        -
Structures on other FRB Roads                                        -    0.76      1.55    1.57     1.57     0.78     6.23      35.0     2.18
Office and Laboratory Facilities                                     -        -    0.21        -        -       -      0.21      40.0     0.08
Road Safety Improvements                                             -    0.05     0.10     0.10     0.16     0.10     0.51         -        -
Subtotal Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads                     3.76     8.85    13.59    13.59    12.21    6.60    58.60      21.7    12.71
B. Maintenance of FRB Roads
Periodic Maintenance                                                 -    0.93      1.65    2.04     2.55     3.59    10.76      20.0      2.15
C. Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country wide)
Construction of SRR                                                  -    2.23      4.47    13.70    13.70    13.60   47.70      25.0    11.93
Ancillary Earthwork                                                  -    0.30      0.60    2.17     2.17     2.14     7.38         -
Subtotal Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country wide)       -    2.53      5.07    15.87    15.87    15.74    55.08     21.7    11.93
D. Improvement of Rural Markets
Improvement of Growth Centre Markets                                 -    0.68      2.06    2.57     2.54     1.02     8.87      30.0      2.66
Improvement of other Rural Markets                                   -        -    0.32     0.50     0.50     0.50     1.82      30.0      0.55
Subtotal Improvement of Rural Markets                                  -    0.68      2.38    3.07     3.04     1.52    10.69      30.0     3.21
E. RehabilitationlConstruction of River Jetties                        -    0.10      0.48    0.66     0.76        -     2.00      30.0      0.60
F. Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)
Technical Support from NGOs                                          -    0.07      0.12    0.15     0.12     0.06     0.52         -
Equipmentr mainly pilot vehicles and parts)                          -    0.01      0.03    0.17     0.17     0.06     0.44      25.0     0.11
Subtotal Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)        -    0.08      0.15    0.32     0.29     0.12     0.96      11.5     0.11
G. Equipment
Construction Equipment                                               -    1.25      0.20    2.22     0.00        -     3.67      55.0     2.02
Supervision Vehicles                                                 -    0.90      0.58    0.63     0.16        -     2.27      50.0      1.13
Laboratory Equipment                                                 -    0.19      0.03    0.03     0.03        -     0.27      60.0     0.16
Office Equipment                                                     -    0.28         -    0.18     0.18        -     0.64      55.0      0.35
MIS Related Accessories                                              -    0.09      0.09    0.09     0.09     0.09     0.43      55.0      0.23
Subtotal Equipment                                                     -    2.70      0.89    3.14     0.45     0.09     7.27      53.6      3.90
H. Technical Assistance and Implementation Support
1. Policy Support
Long Term Socio-economic Impact Study                              -    0.15        -    0.15      0.10        -     0.40         -        -
Small Scale Contracting Industry Study                             -        -    0.06        -        -        -     0.06      67.0      0.04      A
Other Studies                                                      -    0.02      0.17    0.13     0.12     0.12     0.55      21.3     0.12
Subtotal Policy Support                                              -    0.17      0.23    0.28     0.22     0.12     1.01      15.5     0.16          X



Base Cost                           Foreign Exchange
96/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01    Total       %      Amount
2. Project Preparation and Implementation Support
Incremental Project Staff and Operating Costs                    -    0.79    0.77    0.75    0.75    0.75        3.82        -        -
Design, Supervision and Monitoring                            0.34    2.55    2.13    2.01      1.96    1.62    10.59      37.4      3.96
Financial and Technical Audit Services                           -    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10        0.50        -        -
Subtotal Project Preparation and Implementation Support         0.34    3.44    2.99    2.87    2.81      2.47    14.92      26.6      3.96
3. Institutional Development (Capacity Building)
Training and Study Tours                                         -    0.15    0.17      0.22    0.18    0.20      0.92     17.0      0.16
4. Preparation of Follow-up Project                                -        -       -        -    0.61     1.00     1.61     40.0      0.64
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                     0.34    3.75    3.39    3.37    3.81      3.78    18.45      26.7      4.92
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                   4.10    19.62   27.60   42.06   38.99   31.44   163.80       24.1    39.52
Physical Contingencies                                            0.42     1.69    2.20    3.10    2.62    1.93    11.97       22.9      2.74
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                          0.04    0.60    1.67    4.09    5.45    5.79    17.65          -         -
Foreign                                                       0.01     0.20    0.46    1.02    1.16    1.10       3.96    100.0      3.96
Subtotal Inflation                                               0.06    0.81    2.13    5.12    6.61     6.89    21.61      18.3      3.96
Devaluation                                                        -        -   -0.23   -1.04   -1.72   -2.03    -5.02          -         -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                      0.06    0.81     1.90    4.08    4.89    4.86      16.59     23.9      3.96
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    4.57   22.12   31.70   49.24   46.50   38.23    192.36       24.0    46.22
Taxes                                                              0.27    1.97    2.15    4.00    2.90    2.20      13.49        -         -
Foreign Exchange                                                  0.97    5.55    7.67   12.36   11.01    8.67    46.22
CD D
w i



Bangladesh
Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
95196   96197   97198   98J99    99100   00101    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Improvement and Upgrading of FRB Roads
Land Acquisition                                                          0.38     2.34    1.06     1.19       -        -      4.96
Upgrading FRB Roads                                                       3.85     7.08    12.64    13.10    12.75   7.01     56.42
Tree Planting alongside Roads                                                -    0.05     0.15     0.16     0.14    0.20      0.69
Structures on other FRB Roads                                                -    0.83     1.73     1.80     1.84    0.94      7.14
Office and Laboratory Facilities                                             -        -    0.25        -        -       -      0.25
Road Safety Improvements                                                     -    0.06     0.12     0.13     0.21    0.13      0.64
Subtotal lmproverment and Upgrading of FRB Roads                            4.23    10.35    15.95    16.36    14.93   8.28     70.10
B. Maintenance of FRB Roads
Periodic Maintenance                                                         -    1.06     1.93     2.45     3.13    4.52     13.10
C. Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country wide)
Construction of SRR                                                          -    2.43     4.99    15.68    16.08    16.36    55.54
Ancillary Earthwork                                                          -    0.33     0.67     2.48     2.77    2.57      8.60
Subtotal Drainage Structures on Rural Roads (SRR) (Country wide)               -    2.76      5.66    18.17    18.62    18.93   64.14
D. Improvement of Rural Markets
Improvement of Growth Centre Markets                                         -    0.78     2.41     3.08     3.12    1.29     10.68
Improvement of other Rural Markets                                           -        -    0.37     0.60     0.61    0.63      2.22
Subtotal Improvement of Rural Markets                                          -    0.78     2.78     3.68     3.74    1.92     12.90
E. Rehabilitation/Construction of River Jeffies                                -    0.11     0.56     0.79     0.93       -      2.40
F. Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)
Technical Support from NGOs                                                  -    0.07      0.13    0.16     0.13    0.07      0.57
Equipment (mainly pilot vehicles and parts)                                  -    0.01     0.03     0.19     0.19    0.07      0.49
Subtotal Pilot Program to Improve Non-motorized Transport (NMT)                -    0.08      0.16    0.35     0.32    0.14      1.05
G. Equiprnent
Construction Equipment                                                       -    1.43     0.23     2.66     0.00       -      4.33
Supervision Vehicles                                                         -    1.02      0.68    0.76     0.20       -      2.65
Laboratory Equipment                                                         -    0.22     0.03     0.03     0.03       -      0.31
Office Equipment                                                             -    0.32        -    0.22      0.22       -      0.76
MIS Related Accessories                                                      -    0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10    0.11      0.51
Subtotal Equiprnent                                                            -    3.08      1.04    3.77     0.56    0.11      8.55
H. Technical Assistance and Implementation Support
1. Policy Support
Long Term Socio-economic Impact Study                                      -    0.16        -    0.16      0.11       -      0.43
Small Scale Contracting Industry Study                                     -        -    0.06        -        -       -      0.06
Other Studies                                                              -    0.02     0.18     0.14     0.13    0.13      0.60
Subtotal Policy Support                                                      -    0.17      0.24    0.31     0.24    0.13      1.09
2. Project Preparation and Implementation Support
incremental Project Staff and Operating Costs                              -    0.82     0.82     0.82     0.84    0.86      4.17
Design, Supervision and Monitoring                                      0.34     2.64    2.26     2.20     2.18    1.85     11.48
Financial and Technical Audit Services                                     -    0.10     0.11     0.11     0.11    0.11      0.55            CD
Subtotal Project Preparation and Inplementation Support                   0.34     3.57     3.18    3.13     3.14    2.83     16.19                CD
3. Institutional Development (Capacity Building)                                                                                                
Training and Study Tours                                                   -    0.16      0.18    0.24     0.20    0.22      1.00 D O
4. Preparation of Follow-up Project                                          -        -        -       -    0.68     1.15      1.83
Subtotal Technical Assistance and Implementation Support                    0.34     3.89     3.61    3.67     4.26    4.33     20.11
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                              4 57    X19      1 .70    49.24                   I .5    35.23    132.3G



Bangladesh
Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project
Financing Plan: Agency-wise Funding of Local/Foreign Components
(US$ Million)
IDA                        SDC             GOB*  TOTAL PROJECT
Item No.         Component            Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign   Local    Total    Local   Foreign   Local
(Total)
A.   Improvement and Upgrading       15.06    37.05    52.11     0        0        0      17.99    15.06    55.04
B.   Maintenance of FRB Roads        2.62     3.93     6.55      0        0        0      6.55     2.62    10.48
C.   Structures on Rural Roads      13.89    37.43    51.32      0        0        0      12.82    13.89    50.25
D.   Improvement of Rural Markets    3.87     6.45    10.32      0        0        0      2.58     3.87     9.03
E.   Rehab/Cons. of River Jetties    0.72     1.20     1.92      0        0        0      0.48     0.72     1.68
F.   Pilot Program-NMT               0.02     0.13     0.15     0.1     0.81     0.91       0      0.12     0.94
G.   Equipment                       4.59     0.86     5.45      0        0        0       3.10    4.59     3.96
H.   T.A and Implementation Support
1. Policy Support              0.17     0.92     1.09      0        0        0        0      0.17     0.92
2. Implementation Support      0.60     1.67     2.27     3.69     9.40    13.09    0.83      4.29    11.90
3. Training                     0        0        0       0.17     0.83     1.00      0       0.17    0.83
4. Follow up project           0.73     1.10     1.83      0        0        0                0.73     1.10
Total              42.27    90.74   133.01    3.96    11.04    15.00    44.35    46.23   146.13
*  Covers both GOB and Local Government funding. No foreign component in this case.
Note: Figures may not agree due to rounding.
CD 
u5 R
vWA \S



Bangladesh Second Rural Roads & Markets Improvement & Maintenance Project (RRMIMP 2)
Project Management Organogram
Local Bodies                                                                                       Chief Engineer
Project Dlrectore                                                                      Additional C roerE
Monitoring & Evaluat...
_________~~~~~~(RR                                             Sueitedn              su
,ge (D .i.n In
PlO Thana Staff                     ......",.o...        ThanaEngiOeercePlann
PIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
IIIII.~~~~~~~~~~I~~~  (97                                                                  headedXE  byds  Tanpot cooms
Districts)                                                   97XnNProrjecttArea
|~~~~ Loca Comntes|.Lneo..hoiy2 
.  ~~~~~~.. . .~~~~~~~~"   ~~~~~.                              ...............
_____________  Line of Authoredbyityin     Are
UnImplementation Support
_______  Linkages to Local Bodies & Communities



Annex 3.2
171                                      Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECT INCREMENTAL STAFF
1.     For Institutional and Human Resource Development
Position                       Number         Duration         Person
(years)        Years
Additional Chief Engineer                             1              4               4
Superintending Engineer - Design, QC & R&D            1              4               4
Assistant Engineer (Road) Design Cell                 1              4               4
Assistant Engineer (Structure)                        1              4               4
Transport Economist                                   1              4               4
Sociologist (Participation & Land Acquisition)        1              4               4
Monitoring & Evaluation Engineer                      1              4               4
MLSS                                                  2              4               8
Total                                     9                             36
2.     Project Implementation Office (Headquarters)
Position                        Number        Duration         Person
(years)        Years
Project Director                                       1             5               5
Deputy Project Director-Dhaka Area                     1             5              5
Deputy Project Director-(SRR)                          1             5               5
Executive Engineer (XEN)                              2              5              10
Senior Monitoring Engineer                             1             5               5
Senior Finance Manager                                1              5              5
Senior Training Coordinator                            1             5              5
Assistant Engineer (Design)-l SRR Unit                3              5              15
Assistant Engineer (Maintenance)                      2              5              10
Assistant Engineer (Mechanical)                        1             5               5
Assistant Engineer (Prog. Monit.)-l SRR Unit          2              5              10
Socio-Economist (Participation)-l SRR Unit            2              5              10
Environmental Engineer                                1              5              5
Economist (SEME)                                      1              5              5
Statistician                                          1              5              5
Accounts Officer                                      1              5              5
Administrative Officer                                1              5               5
Draftsman                                             1              5               5
Estimator                                              1             5               5
Accountant-SRR Unit                                   2              5              10
Accountant Assistant                                  2              5              10
Computer Operator                                     5              5              25
Driver                                                4              5              20
Reference Clerk-i SRR Unit                            2              5              10
MLSS                                                  5              5              25
Photocopier Operator                                  2              5              10
Total                                    47        _     _ _           235



Annex 3.2
172                                   Page 2 of 2
3.     Project Implementation Office District Level (14 District)
Position                       Number        Duration        Person
(years)        Years
District Training Engineer                           3             5              15
Assistant Engineer (D&S)                            14             5              70
Sociologist (Participation & Land Acquisition)      14             5              70
Assistant Engineer (Maintenance)                    14             5              70
Estimator-Cum-Draftsman                             14             5              70
Surveyor (D&S and Land Acquisition)                 28             5             140
Mechanical Technician                               14             5              70
Laboratory Technician                               14             5              70
Accountant                                          14             5              70
Work Inspector                                      56             5             280
Computer Operator                                   14             5              70
LDA-Cum-Typist-Photocopier                          14             5              70
Pick-up-Driver                                      14             5              70
MLSS                                                14             5              70
Total                                  241                           1205
4.     Project Implementation Office Thana Level (97 Thanas)
Position                       Number        Duration        Person
(years)        Years
Sub-Assistant Engineer (Maintenance)                97             5             485
Total                                   97                           485
5.     Summary
Position                     Number of                       Person
Staff                        Years
Institutional Developement                           9                            36
PIO Headquarters                                    47                           235
PIO District                                        241                          1205
PIO Thana                                           97                           485
Total                                   394                          1961



173                                 Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ASSESSMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY
1.    Background
Since the project is larger and the implementation period shorter than the ongoing project
(RRMIMP-1), there is a question whether there is adequate implementation capacity to complete the
project as scheduled. Implementation capacity is related to mainly the following factors:
(a) the size of the project in terms of physical output;
(b) the implementation period;
(c) contractor capacity to complete the works; and
(d) LGED's capacity to manage the project( procurement, supervision, disbursement, and
monitoring).
These aspects with reference to the proposed project are discussed below: (a) . (b). and
:The national SRR component and NMT pilot component are reviewed separately as contractors
and agencies implementing them form a different category which does not compete with the rest of
the main project components which consist of the FRB roads, markets, and ghats. These latter are the
items which call on contractor capacity to the maximum. (The component on periodic maintenance is
an ongoing project through contractors and what the project will do is mainly to improve the quality
and only to small extent more coverage). In the first project, there were 500 kms of FRB roads, 65
growth center markets and no ghats, while the present project has 575 FRB roads, 135 markets, and
41 river ghats. Market improvements and ghat construction are comparable in the complexity, period
and cost of contracts ( about US $ 60,000 to 75,000 each) all done by small local contractors; one
market improvement contract can be equated to a contract of about 2km FRB road improvements (
from earth to BC paving; costing about $ 200,000) in terms contractual length and difficulties. On
this rough basis of output comparison, the physical output of this group of works under the first
project can be equivalent to about 630 kms of FRB improvements, as against 930 km FRB works
under the new project). This indicates a capacity increase of about 50% over the first project.
The above increase would be more intensive annually, considering the shorter span of
implementation period proposed in the second project ( five years). The first project actually would
take nine years, but effectively for comparison with new project only 7 years, because its first year
was lost due to delays in appointing supervision consultants and delays in issuing contracts which
will not happen in the present project as consultant's appointment is a condition of Board
presentation, and the first year bids would be invited before project approval by the Board; in
addition, the last year of the first project was mostly to cover the contractor's defect liability period
which, in the case of the new project, will fall outside the IDA-implementation period of five years
due to special arrangements being made (see para ...). Combining increased size and reduced time,
the new project needs to have a capacity increase of about 107 %. This increase is feasible due to the
following factors: larger project area, of about 75% ( increase from 8 districts to 14 districts); these
new areas have large number of suitable small contractors who operate there, as Bangladesh has a
long tradition of doing many projects through contractors; these contractors usually work in their
own localities, usually limited to one or two districts. (The first project's output in this group of
works was produced through about 280 smnall contracts involving about 100 different contractors,



174                                      Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 2
about 2.5 km road improvements per average contract, each contract running through about 10 to 15
months: Delete this later?). The project would further assist the contractors in
improving their capacity and work-quality through project supervision and training as done during
the first project. There has been adequate response from contractors with average three or four pre-
qualified contractors bidding for each contract. The experience of recent bidding for retroactive-
financing works under the new project in the new project districts showed a similar response for the
about 15 contracts recently bid and awarded, indicating adequate capacity and response in these new
areas as well.
Thus, about 75% capacity increase can be explained from the increased project area with its
own contracting capacity. The remaining extra capacity (of about 32% ) is expected from the fact that
the new project is not a pilot project and is built on lessons from the first project in trying out new
specifications, standards and procedures etc. ( see para..1...); LGED has become a much more
experienced body (now  implementing about US$1.5 billion worth of projects portfolio)  and
contractors have also become more experienced; the new project has also many measures to increase
contractor efficiency and capacity (larger size contracts of average 4-6 km, with 2-year contracts,
provision of mobilization advances for buying own equipment, higher standards in prequalifying
contractors, more training, etc.); it also will give about 100 km of the roads to a new category of
medium size contractors (for 10 km , US $1.0 m value contracts) who currently work on the main
roads projects, who will infuse new capacity to the feeder road sector). In addition, 45 km FRB
improvements have already started under retroactive financing before project approval. The second
project is much better prepared and its implementation in all aspects would be more efficient.
As regards the national components , the SRR components would be done through very small
Labour contractors ( contracts of about $8000 each), for which there is no shortage (see para.. on
SRR). The NMT component would be implemented almost entirely through experienced local NGOs
with minimal supervision from LGED.
2.     LGED's Capacity to Implement the Project
LGED's capacity, as noted, has expanded very much under various management
improvement measures, and would be further enhanced through the project and other donor support
(see para...). In addition, the project would provide incremental staff in the project areas, will have a
larger PIO with a separate deputy director for the new project districts as they need special attention
(see para....), and will have additional staff in LGED to look after the SRR components through
participatory specialists to be recruited; it will also have a large DSM consultants support appropriate
for the larger size project. A new feature would be technical audit , which will carry out regular six-
monthly inspection of work verification and technical quality as an additional control and monitoring
tool to ensure efficient and timely project implementation.
It should be emphasized here that the capacity increase of total 107% estimated above is
based on a 5-year implementation period for the new project. However, a sensitivity analysis shows
that if a 6- year implementation period is taken for the new project, the capacity increase needed is
only about 72%, which can be easily met from the area expansion factor alone (75%); the increased
capacity from efficiency factors would, in this case, provide considerable slack in capacity. This
means that one strategy for reducing any risk related to implementation capacity would be to extend
the implementation period by one year to 6 years at the time of the mid-term review, if considered
appropriate, based on an assessment of the performance and conditions at that time.



i   $(11(   t  X  o  X  X  n  X  X  t  Q  o  X  t          @  S  a It      o       e
.     ..........-   _ _ _    _ _           __           _    1 (  v 4       _.1  -4
r 1   0     : fa:: 0              0 S  (.  Q                  11  '  'W 1a 4S hi 
*L                                     a
zoo , 1~~~~~3                                   ~1---_..._-c n
a 30~~~~~~~~~~~
CL
.... -.....  .            ..-                       .            -.          .0c.o.. ........ .t@3
-  - - -   - -  - - -, 3- 4   -1     - - -                      t s    8~U, -
0~~~~~~~ l]I 01                                                           to
a,
-- --, --- ----CL
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V iE A3L
CDco~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I         (I'  ~~~~~~~C
1111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
eVr
7fLa
.   ....... . . . . ... .
.1                                    'a~~~~~~~~~~~7
9 JO I owtIci ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~       C
XOUUV~~~~~~45i



9                                                        -  -  -  -                     a            ISO'C O  a -X a           _
s::::: C         ::: :. m                          m -
02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ic         Is~~~~~~~~~~~I
..                          3 9
1:~~~ if                                               11ii00 a                                 i                               I  arS
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     ..    ..    ..    .    f. ...' ...
........ . .                                                                                         . .  .                                         g
S~~~~~~~~ a Z aa
b 0 x3 9LI
CL
(4             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..   .. ..a-I.                                                        
.. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .-.   ...........    .    .
.. .. .. .. ......-                                                                               0to        I
9a
.......... ........... ..~-                                                                                             2 3
_ _ _ - _ _ _     _             1    1                                  3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.~C
liii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ........
....... ... ... .. .. .... .
..    .   .......   .   ...   ...-                                                      
.. ... ................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~
..........   ........... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
.. . .. . .. . ..   .. . .. . .. ... . .. . .                                                                                         !
1111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
... . . ........... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 4
5 Jo z asdc                                                                      9L1
Vl'E XOUUV



Bangladesh: Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Project
Project Implementation Schedule - Summary Tasks
1995       1      1996              1997               1998              1999              2000               2001
ID  Task Name                                 Duration  tr ptr ptr3ptr4ptr1ptr    r           tr     r     tr  tr  trtr r   tr pr ptr 3ptr 4ptr  tr ptr3ptr4  tr    lQtr3
170      First Y"r (96-97) Maintenance of Roads &  367.5d
181      Second Year (97-98) Maintenance of Roads  366.5d                                    _
192      Third Year (9899) Maintenance of Roads &  366.5d                                  |
203      Fourth Year (99-2000) Maintnance of Road   368d                                   |
214      FIdh Year (2000-01) Maintenance of Roads   369d
225  Comp 3. ConL of Structures on Rural Roads     1368d                   '_
226      Design of Drainage Structures on RR         70d                    ___
230      FIrst year (96-97) Work Program for SRR    431d
231           Preparatdon and Approval of Schemes   8Id 
239          Award of Work Contracts                 36_
244          Implentation of Contrac                310d                              _
247      Scond year J57-JS) Wok Progam br SRR       200A                                         _ 
248          Preparation and Approval of Schemes     25d                                   i
252          Engnerng Design and BIdding Doc        100i
256          Award of Work Contracts                 36d
261          Implementation of Contracts             49d                                                   _
264      Third year (98-99) Work Program for SRR    486d                                                       _
265          Preraton and Approval of Schemes        25d                                                        w
269          Engineerig Design and Bidding Doc       700d
273          Award of Work Contracts                 S1d 
278          Implemettion of Contrs                 360d 
281      Fourth year (99-00) Work Program for SRR   466d
282          Prparatin and Approval of Schemes       300
286          Engineerng Design and BIdding Doc        d|_
Page 3
Page 3



178                                              Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 5
C-
>    .                  _t                                                               -
0N||>>.    e  o>  > 
U  _ T .    .     .            ....    . .  .   ..   ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . .......
8     S
C        t;
J'9_     .     .... ..  .. 
Co   _ , b                                                                     
E  s s                              H                              .  ..  ..   .......   ........   -  .........C
E E _E
3UCn           A            .   .  .   .  ......  .  ...... ...... .............   . ..... .
LhL
8 a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
04)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
WE    .         .                           I                                         I~~~~~C
(U  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 9L L 
0~~~~
0 0             0                 1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24 



Bangladesh: Second Rural Roads and Market Improvement and Maintenance Project
Project Implementation Schedule - Summary Tasks
1995              1996               1997               1998              1 999      T       2000               2001
ID   Task Name                                 Duration  tr  tr ptr itr ptr  tr  tr 3tr                                  2I tr ptr  tr 3tr  21 tr ptr 2ptr 3tr 4tr ptr  tr 3ptr 4Qtr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr3
406       ImplementatUon of Work Contract            58Od                                                                               ___
413  Comp. 6: Pilot Program to Improve NMT           325d
414       Bidding and Award of Contract              135d
Implementation of Contrct                  11Od 
427       Promote Pilot Design and its Marketing      80dd_                                                      -
432  Comp. 7: Equipment                              633d                                                       _
433       Procurement of Equipment(Phase I)          240d
441       Procurement of Equipment(Phase II)         240d
449  Comp. 8 Technical Assisbnce                    1433d                                                                                                                   _
450       Policy Support (Various Studies)           105d
460      Complebt Various Studies (given below)      900d                                                                   _
468      Project PreparaUon and Implementation Su   1398d               _                    -
469           Design and Supervision Consultant (P   170d                     _ 'V
472           Design and Supervision Consultant (p    85d               i _                  i
481           Design and Supervision Consultant (P  1088d                     _                                                                             _
485           Financial and Technical Audit Service  1093d                                   ___
491       Instituional Development (Capacity Buildin  1260d                         'V       - 
492           Training Program and Study Tour       1060d 
498           Preparation of Follow-up Project       845d                                                        _
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: RRM1 MP9 2                     Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone O                                                                                    O
Page 5



180                                                 Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
Second Rural Road and Markets Improvement Project
Table: 1 Plan for Civil Work Packages
Component    Size         Total        Details of      Average       Total
Component           Cost      Length/   Number of        Contract        cost of      cost of    Procurement
Number   Packages         Packages        contract    Packages       Method
(US$ m)                                                (US$)      (US$ m)
1. Improvement adUpaeradine of FRB Roads
a. Upgrading           47.31      574 km        100        12 No. Up to      131,000       1.57          NCB
FRB Roads                                                  2km @
62 No. of 2-5     260,000      16.17          NCB
km @
14 No. of 5-10    470,000      14.21          NCB
km @
12 No. of over    930,000       9.30          NCB
10 km @
Structures on                   59 No.       59            59 No.         111,500       6.57          NCB
FRB roads being
improved
b. Tree Planting        0.57        574         112       112 No. of 5km      5,090       0.57          Direct
along FRB                         Km                         @
c. Office and           0.25       1 No.         1            1 No.          210,00       0.25           NCB
Laboratory
d. Structures on        6.23       1750m        87            87 No.         71,600       6.23           NCB
other FRB
2. Drainage Structure on Rural Roads
Structures           47.70       5960         one            5960           8,000       47.70          NCB
No.      contract
Ancillary Works                  5960        each            5960           1,100                     Direct
3. Improvement of Rural Markets
a. Improvement of                              one
GCM                   8.87        136      contract          136           65,220       8.87           NCB
No.        each
b. Improvement of     .                        one              14           45,000        0.63
Rural Markets         1.82        28       contract                                                    NCB
and Roads                         No.        each             14           85,000        1.19
4. Rehabilitation/Construction of River Jetties
one
River Jetties         2.00        41        contract          41           48,750        2.00          NCB
No.        each



181                                 Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROAD AND MARKET IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Semester            IDA           Cumulative
Fiscal Year         Ending        Disbursement      Disbursement         Percent
(US$ million)    (US$ million)
FY1997            December 96
June 97                  8                 8                 6
FY1998            December 97              9                17                13
June 98                 10                27                20
FY1999            December 98             13                40                30
June 99                 16                56                42
FY2000            December 99             20                76                57
June 2000               18                94                71
FY2001            December 2000           14                108               81
June 2001               10                118               89
FY2002            December 2001           10                128               96
March 2002               5                133               100
Note:  Project completion is expected in September 30, 2001, about 57 months after IDA approval of the Credit,
and Credit closing 6 months later (in March 31, 2002).



182                                 Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. Monitoring And Evaluation Plan
1.    The proposed project would be monitored and evaluated both in terms of quantity and quality
from the perspective of input, output, outcome and impact. In order that the indicators should serve an
meaningful purpose, the project objectives and components/inputs has been adequately linked with the
expected processes, outputs and impacts. The 'input indicators' would measure the quantity of
resources provided, 'output indicators' would measure the quantity services that have been created,
'Outcome indicators' would measure the quantity of direct results that have been achieved through the
provision of project goods and services and the impact indicators would measure the degree to which
wider sector/project objectives are being achieved through the direct outcome of project activities.
2.    The input monitoring and evaluation would focus on weather all the required resources
including counterpart funding for maintenance and GOB's financing, are in place in timely fashion to
implement the program activities and services. The input information would include mainly on the
progress of land acquisition, and timely contract awards for the procurement of civil works, goods and
consulting services. The Input indicators would be regularly monitored and assessed through quarterly
and semi-annually and annually reports with an emphasis to identify problems in the delivery of inputs
so that they may be resolved before causing significant delays in progress achievements. The output
monitoring and evaluation would focus on the immediate results of activities, as demonstrated, for
example in kms of road build, number of structures completed, number of markets developed and
number of river jetties (ghats) constructed. LGED will monitor continuously all the input and output
indicators through progress reports and send the reports to IDA. The summary of the progress reports
would reflect the progress in respect of the proposed indicators, and in case of significant changes, the
reports would specify the reasons as well as the remedial action proposed.
3.    The 'Outcome' evaluation would focus on the direct results that have achieved through the
provision of project's services. This would be monitored by measuring number of vehicle usage in case
of feeder roads, mobility increased by increasing number of all weather rural roads, amount received
on leasing of markets and ghats, amount spent on regular maintenance of markets and ghats. The
Impact evaluation would measure the degree to which the project objectives are being achieved through
the direct outcome of the project activities. This would include efficient service delivery to number of
thanas, accessibility to number of poor communities in the rural areas, safety, cost efficiency, improve
service quality to reduce transportation cost, income generated from developed market and ghats; and
employment generated. It is proposed to launch a project workshops where all the stakeholders would
be invited to decide the responsibilities of each stakeholders and specifically focus on how and who
would maintain the baseline date for monitoring evaluation of all above referred indicators.
4.    During negotiations, assurance would be sought that: (a) quarterly and annual progress reports
for all project components would be prepared by the PD and submitted to the Chief Engineer LGED,
who in turn will submit them to IDA; (b) a joint mid term review would be conducted by July 1999,
whichever is earlier; and (c) an Implementation Completion Report would be submitted by the
Government to IDA within six months of the closing date of the project. The detailed format of the
quarterly and annual progress report will be agreed at negotiations.



183                                  Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 5
5.     A sumnmary of performance indicators prepared in consultation with LGED, is provided in
Tables A and B. Except for impact indicators, the input, output and financial indicators, LGED would
monitored on a computer based program, which would also be used by IDA during the supervision
missions. The achievement of key indicators would be reflected in the supervision report form 590.
The guidelines for measuring the outcome and impact indicators would be designed during the project
launch workshop in consultation with the UPs, TDDC, and LGED. Based on the availability of the
base line data, the input, output and outcome indicators would be monitored during every supervision
mission, but the Impact indicators would be reviewed at the project start, mid-term review and
implementation completion.
IDA Supervision Requirements
6.     Table 1 summarizes resources needs for supervision. These inputs are in addition to resources
needs for the review of progress reports, procurement, supervision report preparation and
correspondence (which are estimated at six staff weeks (to be checked) per year throughout project
implementation).
Table 1: IDA Mission Schedule
Approximate                      Activity                     Staff Weeks  Staff Weeks
Dates                                                        (HQ)         (RMB)
Monthly    Monthly Supervision                                   -            1
1/97      Project Launch/initial supervision mission           6            6
7/97      Mid-year review mission                              3            4
1/98      Annual review mission                                5            6
7/98      Mid-year review mission                              3            4
1/99      Annual review mission                                5            6
10/99     Mid-year review mission                              3            4
1/00      Mid-term review                                      6            8
7/00      Annual review mission                                5            6
1/01      Mid-year review mission                              3            4
9/01      Final supervision/Implementation Completion Report   6            8
mission



184                                   Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 5
Table 2 summarizes the IDA supervision plan including project launch workshop, formal reviews and
regular supervision mnissions with skills needed.
Table 2. Supervision Plan Details
Skills Required
Mission     Approx.                                                                       Total
Date      Economist   Engineer   Procurement         Inst.      Training    Staff
No.       Mo./Yr.                                Specialist    Develop. &   Specialist  weeks
Community
Participation
1*         1/97          1            2             1             2                      6
2          7/97           1           1             1                                    3
3          1/98           1           1             1             1            1         5
4          7/98           1           1             1                                    3
5          1/99           1           2             1             1                      5
6         10/99           1           1             1                                    3
7**        1/00           1          2+             1             1            1         6
8          7/00           1           1             1                                    3
9          1/01           1           1             1                                    3
10***       9/01           1           2             2             1                      6
*      Project Launch Workshops
**     Mid-term review
t**    Initiation of ICR Process
+      Maintenance Engineer
Note:   Assumes Task Manager to have one of the skills listed.
7.     Main supervision missions (which are expected to be two per year) will be done in coordination
with SDC, which has agreed to actively support project supervision. In case efforts of coordination in
mission would result in timing conflict between IDA and SDC, the mission tinming proposed by IDA, the
lead agency, would prevail. SDC's contribution therefore will mainly consist of (a) active participation
on mid-year and annual review missions by SDC resident rnission, (b) active participation on the mid-
term review mission and other events of overall importance for project steering by SDC headquarters
and/or resident mission, and (c) making available additional local or foreign consultant services if
deemed necessary in specific areas such as maintenance or training or others. Those additional
consultant inputs will require prior consultation with IDA and LGED.



185                                              ANNEX 3.7
Page 4 of 5
TABLE A: INPUT AND OUTPUT MONITORING INDICATORS
Units         At      End-   End-    End-    End-    At             Means
Start:  Oct    Oct       Oct      Oct      Project  of
Monitorable Targets                           End-   97        98       99       00       Compl   Verifi-
Oct                                                  cation
Inputs
1. FRB Road Improvement Contracts         km             159     297     427      568      574      574       PPR
Awarded
2. SRR Contracts Awarded                  m              250     4250    10450    18900   27350   31600    PPR
3. GC Market and River Jetty              No.            20      68      121      177       177      177      PPR
Contracts Awarded
Outputs                                                                                                       PPR
1. FRB Road hnprovement Contracts         km            25       58      160      302      433      574       PPR
Completed
2. Road Side Tree Planting Completed      km of road    -        40      160      302      426       562       PPR
3. SRR Contracts Completed                m                      2000   6250      14700   23150   31600    PPR
4. GC Market and River Jetty              No.                    -       20       68        121      177       PPR
Contracts Completed
Notes: PPR - Project Progress Report



TABLE B: OUTCOME AND IMPACT MONITORING INDICATORS
(a) Remove physical         1. Increase in length of continuously    Additional km of
bottlenecks,improve quality    passable Rural Roads in project area continuously passable RR  0            2000            10500              PPR
and reduce costs, in rural                                       present norms: 1.5 km for
transport and marketing                                          each gao filled          _
2. Reduced transport charges on FRBs % reduction in transport
improved under the project, after one charges on improved
year of completion                FRBs on goods for           0               25               25             SEME
composite traffic unit (in
constant price)           _
(b) Create employment and   3. Employment created on project     Person-years
income-generating              activities
opportunities among the rural
poor
(c) Promote participation of   4. Rural markets and river jetties  Number of project
local communities and NGOs     designed and SRRs selected with    schemes
beneficiary participation
(i) With involvement of Participation                                       6
Specialist                                              ~~~~~ ~~~~~               ~       ~~ ~           ~    ~~600    1500  PPR  o0
Specialist
(ii) Others                                                                1200             3000               PPR
(d) Increased\efficient    5. Increase in lease value of Improved   % increase in lease value
institutional capacity for rural  Growth Centre markets vs pre-                              0              25              40                SEME
Infrastructure management      development
and maintenance
6. Average size (km) of FRB contracts  km
awarded                                                       2              3               5                 PPR
7. FRB network in project area in good, (1) % of FRB network
paved condition. (As per initial                             31             38               60                PPR
network of 3200 km).
(2) Km/Sq.km.
8. Average elapsed time between      Number of days
invoice submission and payment to                            15             15               15                PPR
contractor
PPR - Project Progress Report   SEME - Socio-Econoinic Monitoring and Evaluation (to be carried out by DSM Consultants)
1. In addition, long-term socio-economic impact of the project will be studied under the project through house-hold and other field surveys, but meaningful results would be  a 
available only by the time of project completion because of the nature of these impacts. These results would be reviewed as part of the project impact in the final evaluation  X
0 
of project impact                                                                                                                                                h :1
2. Numbers given in the columns 'At Project Start', I At Mid-term review', and 'At Project Completion' are the indicative targets                                 L
3. The units and the Droiected tareets shown hlank wonld hp dvw1-d     e        finn   s



187
Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LAND ACQUISITION ACTION PLAN: SUMMARY
1.    Background
The infrastructure works comprise construction of large numbers of small, widely scattered rural
schemes. Land acquisition is required only for improvement/upgrading of FRB roads. Strucures on other
FRB roads and on Rural Roads (SRR) will be built within existing alignments on public (khas) land. The
local government bodies will confirm, before implementation of any market or ghat scheme commences,
that there are no disputes over the public land on which the improved facilities will be constructed. If any
additional land is needed, no formal land acquisition will be involved, and the local government body will
arrange for purchase of the additional land prior to implementation.
FRB road improvement/upgrading works will be on existing road alignments. Land, or more
precisely asset, acquisition will be required to acquire:
Narrow strips of land adjacent to the existing embankments in order to widen and/or raise them to
meet the defined pavement cross-section standard.
*     On some FRB roads, land for minor re-alignment of sections of the existing embankment.
*     Standing trees, crops and small buildings within the widened road alignment.
2.    Impacts of Land Acquisition
Impacts have been assessed from a Land Acquisition Assessment (LAA) study based on surveys of
the land acquisition impact of FRB improvements under the RRMIMP and the RDP-6 projects; and a
Preliminary Inventory Survey of all FRB roads short-listed for improvement which included estimation of
the land area, and numbers of buildings and trees to be acquired.
The LAA confirmed the inadequacy of present land acquisition practices in Bangladesh. The level
of compensation is generally below the full replacement value; not all affected persons receive
compensation; and there can be long delays in payment of compensation, with physical occupation of the
land before payment is made.
Table I presents a summary of land acquisition impact by District. The project will acquire about
254ha. of land, 73% of it cultivated agricultural land, the remainder homestead land; about 260 small,
pernanent 'pucca' buildings; many more 'kutcha' buildings; and large numbers of trees'. The affected
persons will be owners of the agricultural, homestead and commercially developed land; owners of trees
and standing crops; owners of homestead dwellings and commercial buildings; mortgagees of land,
sharecroppers and agricultural labourers; renters of homestead dwellings; and owners and employees of
businesses operating from commercial buildings.
The environmental impact of loss of these trees will be more than compensated by the tree
plantation program on all improved FRB roads.



188
Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 10
Large numbers of people will be affected. About 24,000 households (estimated as 42 per km of
FRB road) will suffer losses. About 72% of affected households will lose agricultural land, and about 36%
homestead land. Land acquisition will be 'neutral' in its effect on different sectors of the rural population,
ie. affected households are a normal cross-section of landowners. The level of effect will be small. Land
acquisition equates to about 0.44ha per km of road or, on average, strips of land 2.2m wide on each side of
the existing embankments. Thus most households will lose narrow strips of land (plus standing trees and
buildings on that land) from their plots. Two-thirds of affected households will lose less than 5% of their
total land-holding, 87% less than 10%, and 98.5% less than 20%. The acquisition of land may result in a
few households having to re-locate their homesteads but numbers will be small, and their location cannot be
determined until land acquisition is underway on each road.
Table 1: Impact of Land Acquisition
District           Land to be Acquired (ha)       Pucca Buildings    Households
to be          Affected
Acquired
Cultivated    Homestead    Total
. Manikganj          9.52         3.52        13.05               2            1,546
Munshiganj          19.66         7.27        26.93              13            2,003
Narayanganj          8.18         3.03        11.20              13             886
Gazipur             20.69         7.65        28.35              63            2,663
Narsingdi           23.33         8.63        31.96              20            2,524
Dhaka               31.21        11.54        42.76              74            3,444
Rajshahi            15.23         5.63        20.86              12            2,176
Naogaon              9.02         3.34        12.35               4            1,583
Natore               8.07         2.99        11.06              12            1,147
Nawabganj            6.44         2.38         8.82              21            1,226
Pabna                8.12         3.00        11.13               1             920
Sirajganj           11.44         4.23        15.67               5            1,369
Bogra                9.86         3.65        13.51              10            1,932
l Joypurhat          4.80         1.78         6.58               14            664
Total      185.57        68.64       254.23             264           24,083
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
3.     Land Acquisition and Compensation Policy
Land acquisition will be carried out, within the legal framework of the Bangladesh Requisition of
Immovable Property Ordinance of 1982 and its subsequent amendments, by application of the agreed Land
Acquisition Action Plan (LAAP). The LAAP accords with World Bank Operational Directive OD 4.30 in
respect of minimising land acquisition, and ensuring full and prompt compensation of all project affected
persons (PAPs) for loss of assets and actual temporary loss of income so that PAPs are not adversely
affected.



189                                Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 10
The land acquired will be the minimum needed to improve and upgrade the FRB alignments to the
defined technical standard. The alignments of the widened embankments will be carefully designed to avoid
all religious/historical sites, schools and large/important buildings; and to avoid buildings where permanent
businesses operate and to acquire lower value land wherever possible. Sections of road will be re-aligned
only for safety reasons (to increase radii of curves), or where re-alignment has less asset acquisition impact
than upgrading the existing alignment.
The compensation policy is presented in Table 2. Given that the level of impact on PAPs will be
small, it focuses on monetary compensation for losses. PAPs will be compensated at full replacement value
for loss of assets, estimated based on assessed local current market values of the assets. PAPs will be given
advance warning of land acquisition, and a three-month eviction period following payment of
compensation, so that they can take actions to deal with the disruption caused, and to minimise temporary
displacement problems. PAPs will also be allowed to salvage trees, standing crops and building materials
as additional compensation for any temporary displacement problems.
Since the area of land acquired from individual plots will be small, and PAPs will be given advance
warning of land acquisition, it is not necessary to compensate mortgagees, renters or sharecroppers of
agricultural land; renters of homestead dwellings; casual agricultural labourers; or for seasonal crops.
Where acquisition of homestead land results in the household which owns the land and the dwelling on that
land having to re-locate its homestead (defined as the plot size being reduced below 0.01 ha.) the household
will receive sufficient compensation to purchase a replacement plot and construct an equivalent dwelling.
The losses, and rights to compensation, of genuine uthulis (persons who construct buildings on
private land with the permission of the landowner) and squatters (persons who construct buildings on
private or public land without the permission of the landowner) are recognised. As owners of buildings they
will be compensated for the value of the buildings. If they are operating businesses from those buildings
they will be compensated for temporary loss of income. If they have trees or perennial standing crops on
public land they will be compensated for the value of these. In the unlikely event that serious problems are
encountered with a large concentration of genuine uthulis/squatters within the alignment of a particular
road, LGED will adopt additional contingency measures, including the possibility of re-location assistance
(provision of a plot of land or of a cash grant equivalent) to deal with this.
While PAPs will be fully compensated, exploitation of the procedure and over-compensation will
be minimised. Measures will be adopted to discourage the construction of 'fraudulent buildings' by
landowners, uthulis or squatters simply in order to obtain compensation. Also, the project will not
compensate for temporary selling platforms and the like which can bc uplifted, removed and re-located
elsewhere without loss of value.



TABLE 2: COMPENSATION POLICY
Type of Loss                       Entitled Person                           Entitlement                         Implementation                      Organisations
Issues/Guidelines                     Responsible
1. Agricultural Land, including     Legal owner of land/waterbodies at   1. Market value of landlwaterbodies.      a. Assessment of type and quantity    a. DC, LGED, PIO.
Waterbodies                     time of serving Notice No. 3.                                                      of land/waterbodies by JIV.
b. P10 + DC.
b. Market value of land and
waterbodies determined by        c. LAO, Revenue Office,
market survey.                       LGED.
c. Title updating.
2. Homestead Land                   Legal owner of land at time of serving   la. If remaining plot after acquisition is  a. Assessment of land area to be  a. DC. LGED, PIO.
Notice No. 3.                            more than 2.5 decimals, market value     compensated by JIV.
of land acquired.                                                          b. PIO + DC.
b. Market value of land determined
or                                           by market survey.                 c.  LAO, Revenue office,
LGED.
lb If remaining plot after acquisition is  c. Title updating.
less than 2.5 decimals, market value of
whole plot plus exemption from stamp
duty on purchase of new homestead                                                                            -
plot, of value up to compensation
amount, within 6 months of payment of
compensation.
3.  Developed Commercial Land        Legal owner of land at time of serving   1. Market value of land.              a. Assessmentlof type and quantity    a. DC, LGED, P1O.
(private land on which     Notice No. 3.                                                                       of land by JIV.
commercial building has                                                                                                                         b. PIO + DC.
been constructed)                                                                                          b. Market value of land determined
by market survey.                c. LAO, Revenue Office,
LGED.
c. Title updating.
4. Trees and Standing Perennial      Legal owner of land at time of issuing    I. Value of trees and perennial standing  a. Assessment of type and quantity    a.  DC, LGED, P1O.
Crops on Private Land            Notice No. 3.                            crops on land acquired.                   of trees/perennial standing crops
Acquired                                                                                                            byJIIV.                          b. P10 + DC.
2. Salvage of trees and perennial standing
crops.                                b. Value of trees and perennial                                         b
standing crops determined by                                           >
market survey.
.  .(
5. Trees and Standing Perennial     Owner of trees/standing perennial     1. Value of trees and perennial standing  a. Ownership of trees determined by   a. DC, LGED, PIO.                O
Crops on Public Land within      crops.                                   crops within road alignment.             IIV.                                                                 O  co
Road Alignmnent                                                                                                                                      b. DC, LGED,.PI0.
2. Salvage of trees and perennial standing    b. Assessment of type and quantity
crops.                                    of trees/perennial standing crops    c. PlO + DC.
by JIV
I                                                                       -__________._________.__________._________



Type of Loss                      Entitled Person                          Entitlement                          Implementation                     Organisations
Issues/Guidelines                    Responsible
c. Value of trees and perennial
standing crops determined by
market survey.
6. Building (Dwelling or            Owner of the building.              I, Value of building.                    a. Ownership of building determined   a. DC, LGED, P1O.
Commercial Building) on                                                                                          by JlV.
Private land Acquired                                               2. Salvage of building materials.                                             b. DC, LGED, PlO
b. Type and size of building
determined by JIV.              c. PIO + DC.
c. Value of building determined by
market survey.
7. Building (DweUing or             Owner of the building.               I 1. Value of building.                  a. Ownership of building determined   a. DC, LGED, P1O.
Commercial Building) on Public                                                                                    by JIV.
Land within Road Alignment                                          2. Salvage of building materials.                                             b. DC, LGED, PlO.
b. Type and size of building
3.  If large concentration of                determined by JIV.              c. PIO +DC.
uthulis/squatters found on a road,   c. Value of building determined by
relocation assistance.                   market survey.                  d. LGED
d.  Need for relocation assistance
determined by LGED.
8. Income of Business Operating     Proprietor of the business.          1. Three months net income of business.    a. Proprietor of business determined   a. DC, LGED, PIO.
from Commercial Building                                                                                          by JIV.
Acquired                                                                                                                       *                  b. P10+ DC.
b. Net income assessed by mnarket
surve
Y.
9. Employment in Business           Regular employees of the business.   1. Three months wages.                   a. Identification of regular        a. DC, LGED, PIO.
Operating from                                                                                               employees by the JIV.
Commercial Building                                                                                                                          b. PIO + DC
Acquired                                                                                                 b. Prevailing skilled and unskilled
wage rates
determined by                                    It
the market                                           >
survey.
O  X4
KEY:              JIV - Joint On-Site Inventory and Verification                    PIO - Project Implementation Office
DC - Deputy Commissioner                                                   LAO - Land Acquisition office                                               -.
LGED - Local Government Engineering Departtnent                                                                                                       000



192
Annex 3.8
Page 6 of 10
4.    Institutional Arraiwements and Implementation Procedures
The Deputy Commissioner's (DC) office in each District will acquire the land, acting on behalf of
LGED as the requiring body. To support the DCs, and to ensure timely implementation in accordance with
the LAAP, LGED will take a pro-active role. As a rural development agency with a social as well as
technical perspective, and with offices in every District and Thana, LGED is well-placed to do this. The
key LGED actors will be the District XENs, the Thana Engineers, and the Community Organisers at thana
level. They will be supported by the PIO, whose incremental staffing includes a Sociologist in each of the
14 project Districts, and the Design, Supervision and Monitoring Consultants (DSMC), whose staffing
includes two national Land Acquisition Field Advisers. The DSMC advisers will work full-time on land
acquisition and will set up and operate the monitoring system. The incremental staffing also includes a
Socio-Economist in PIO headquarters in Dhaka to work on land acquisition and participation aspects, and
a Sociologist in LGED headquarters who, inter-alia, will develop LGED land acquisition practices. Union
Parishads will be involved in the information campaign and grievance redressal procedure.
This is the first Bank-financed project in Bangladesh where land acquisition procedures
conforming to OD 4.30 will involve only government machinery, without availing of NGO support. As
such it represents a major step forward in the institutionalization of land acquisition procedures.
The implementation strategy allows ample time for land acquisition so that, for each year of full
implementation of FRB works, it can be completed prior to the planned start of construction. The annual
implementation schedule (Figure 1) allows a 13 month period for land acquisition up to the end of the three
month eviction period, so that land is available for physical occupation by LGED prior to completion of
road construction contract tendering. The schedule allows some slack for delays in the process.
At the time of submission of the case to the DC, the DSMC will make a photographic record of the
road, to document the pre-existence of buildings and trees on the alignment, as one measure to discourage
'fraudulent' compensation claims. A Joint On-Site Inventory and Verification will be carried out, involving
the LAO, LGED, the DSMC Field Adviser, and the PAPs. This will define and record the PAPs, the assets
to be acquired, the losses, and any disputes over ownership of assets. People within the vicinity of the road
will be informed in advance of the exercise. This inventory and verification will form the basis for all
subsequent stages of the land acquisition, and for monitoring.
The DSMC Field Adviser and the PIO will undertake a market survey in the area of each road to
assess the values of agricultural, homestead and developed commercial land; of buildings; and of standing
trees and perennial crops. LGED and the P10 will then negotiate with the DC with the aim of reaching
agreement on assessed values that reflect full market values. If such agreement is not reached, and if the
DC's assessed values are lower than LGED's market values, LGED will make additional, 'top up' payments
directly to PAPs. Payment of compensation to PAPs will be made at Union headquarters, in order to avoid
the problems that PAPs often face in travelling long distances to obtain small compensation amounts.
LGED will assist the DC in arrangements to make these payments. There will be some cases, where
ownership of assets is unresolved, or where legal disputes are in process, that will not be completed prior to
physical occupation of the land.



Figure 1: Annual land Acquisition and Compensation Schedule
__sp_ _bii_y  _ SJuly              OAm |ct    [No                             ]   Os       |  Jan   -    Fer    |  March  1  Apr            May         J.-        July    | Aug          Sept
_ _5-_G_=__=:_ _=_ __ .___.____ _ .==_ _ _                                                                 ==                                         __ _                                   .    ___                    ___i_._ _ _=__ .    _  _ _i =  __pO  _T_ _N__=
* Compide Prepadlion of Lend Acqdsttlson Plan                  OSMC
* S.bmissn to DC                                                LGED             3
* Photographb Renrd of Road                                    DSMC 
* RegqsIr Case                                                   DC
* Field Verifballon                                              DC
* Inlortdlon Campalon lor PAPs                              LGED/DGMC                L      ..i
a Itsue GI Notdb No. 3                                           DC
* Assislanra. and RsoIlUon of Grlevances                     LGED/DSMC
* Objeclons and Approvals                                        DC
a Joit On-Sihe Invenrory and V9"rllka Ion                 DC & LGED/DSMC                                          -
* Issue of NotIze No. 8                                          DC
* MarketSunrey                                               DSMC/LGED
* Assssamene oi Value                                        DC& LGED
* Deposl oi Award Money to DC                                   LGED                                                                          i 
* Isue of Notbe No 7                                             DC
* Pay.ren to Aflterld Persons                                DC& LGED                                                                                              =      _-__.
* Eviction Period                                                                                                                                                                                                     . =.V- .
* Physical Possesslon of Land by LGED                           LGED
* Dead of Transfer                                               DC 3
* CondIrmdlon by GOB                                            Gb6
e Montordng                                                  LGEDADSMC                               _                                                                                                .        .-        .    .
 Repoding on Progress of land Acqulsiton                    LGED/DSMC
CD
O >



194                                   Annex 3.8
Page 8 of 10
5.    Information, Assistance and Grievance Procedures
LGED will disseminate information about the land acquisition and compensation process. The
information campaign in the vicinity of each road, which will involve the Union Parishad and will include
the posting of notices and the distribution of leaflets, will start when the case is submitted to the DC.
LGED will inform people that it is intended to acquire land. It will advise them of the procedures to be
adopted and of the assets and losses that will be compensated (and of those that will not be compensated);
of the persons entitled to compensation; of their rights and the steps that they should take to protect those
rights; and of the assistance available from LGED to resolve problems and grievamces. During the Joint
On-Site Inventory and Verification PAPs will again be advised of the procedures and of the support
available from LGED. After the issue of Notice No.7, PAPs will be informed of compensation payments
arrangements. At the time payments are made, PAPs will be informed of the time they have to vacate the
land, and of the entitlement to salvage certain assets.
LGED will assist PAPs to resolve queries and redress grievances. The grievance redressal
procedure will operate through a committee in each Thana chaired by the Thana Engineer and comprising
the District Sociologist and a member of the Union Parishad, which will meet regularly (about twice per
month) at advertised times at the TE's office, when PAPs can formally present and discuss their queries and
grievances. PAPs can ask a Union Parishad member to assist them. This committee will resolve some
matters, and will determine that certain grievances are not legitimate. Where necessary, the committee will
ask the District Sociologist, assisted by the DSMC Field Adviser, to follow-up. This may involve field
investigations on-site with the PAP and his/her Union Parishad representative. The committee will then
meet again with the PAP to review the findings of the investigation. For legitimate grievances which the
committee is unable to resolve, a report will be submitted to the XEN, who will take further steps to resolve
the grievance and if necessary will submit a formal request to the DC to consider the matter. The Thana
Engineer will maintain a register of all queries and grievances presented to the committee, and of the
actions taken and decisions made. This grievance procedure will not replace the existing legal appeal
process, but will minimise the number of cases that reach the stage of legal action and will expedite the
resolution of problems.
6.    Monitoring and Reporting Procedure
The DSM consultants, working with the PIO Sociologist, will monitor the progress and
performance of land acquisition. The project Annual Plan of Operations (APO) will include targets for
objectively verifiable indicators of progress of land acquisition. Monitoring and reporting will be based on
comparison of actual progress on each road with these targets. Key progress indicators will be:
*      Date of submission of land acquisition case to DC
*     Date of completion of land market survey
*     Number of plots acquired
The Joint On-Site Inventory and Verification will form the basis for monitoring performance. A
computerised data-base will be set up for each road to record information for each identified PAP. It will
then be used to track the performance of land acquisition as implementation proceeds. Performance will be
monitored in terms of



195                                 Annex 3.8
Page 9 of 10
*     Numbers of PAPs
*     Characteristics of PAPs
*     Nature and level of impact
*     Value of compensation due to PAPs
*      Status of payment of compensation to PAPs
*     Progress of owners of homestead land, business proprietors, uthulis and squatters in re-
location
*     Resolution of grievances
*     Numbers of legally disputed and other unresolved cases
*     Compliance with the eviction period
The project will report twice per year on progress and performance. This will be incorporated into
the relevant project quarterly progress reports. The DSMC, as part of their input to the SEM&E activities,
and in collaboration with PIO and LGED SEM&E staff, will undertake broader studies of the impact of
land acquisition on affected persons. The IDA and SDC will review the progress and performance by
LGED of land acquisition as part of project supervision. About once per year, as required by IDA/SDC, an
independent review of compliance by LGED of the policies set out in the LAAP will be carried out.
7.    Budget
The costs of land acquisition have been estimated using the data on quantities from the Preliminary
Inventory Survey, and the findings from the LAA on market values of assets. Table 3 details the direct cost
by District for acquisition of land, buildings and trees. The total estimated cost is Taka 150.8 million
(US$3.77 million), or 7.3% of total FRB improvement and upgrading costs. The total cost is based on
broad estimates of unit values of assets, and given this degree of uncertainty a 25% physical contingency
has been included for land acquisition. Land acquisition will be 100% GOB financed.
Table 3 also details the overhead and administrative costs of implementing the land acquisition
process in accordance with the LAAP. The estimated cost is Taka 16.1 million (US$0.4 million), about
11% of the direct cost of land acquisition. In addition, some permanent LGED District and Thana staff will
spend time on land acquisition matters. The total direct, overhead and administrative cost of land
acquisition, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at Taka 219.3 million (US$5.5
million).



196                                       Annex 3.8
Page 10 of 10
Table 3: Costs of Land Acquisition
1.     Estimated Direct Cost of Land Acquisition (Base Cost)
District                                 Cost (Taka million)
Land            Buildings            Trees             Total
Manikganj                      4.6                1.8                2.0               8.4
Munshiganj                     9.6                3.1                1.2              13.9
Narayanganj                    4.0                1.8                1.3               7.1
Gazipur                       10.1                2.9               2.5               15.5
Narsingdi                     11.3                3.2                3.0              17.5
Dhaka                         15.1                4.9                3.9              23.9
Rajshahi                       7.4                3.0                2.6              13.0
Naogaon                        4.4                2.2                2.0               8.6
Natore                         3.9                2.7                0.6               7.2
Nawabganj                      3.1                2.9                0.9               6.9
Pabna                          3.9                1.4                0.4               5.7
Sirajganj                      5.6                4.0               0.5               10.1
Bogra                          4.8                2.8                1.4               9.0
Joypurhat                      2.3                1.4                0.3               4.0
90.1              38.1               22.6             150.8
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
2.     Overhead and Administrative Costs of Land Acquisition (Base Cost)
Item                             Cost
(Taka million)
Headquarters Sociologist (25% of time)                       0.12
PIO Sociologist (50% of time)                                0.24
District Sociologists (50% of time)                          6.65
DSMC Advisers                                                9.12
Total J                     16.13



197                                Annex 3.9
Page 1 of 6
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT: SUMMARY'
1.    Introduction
The project is not expected to have a major impact on the physical or ecological environment. No new
road alignments are involved. The proposed works are improvement, upgrading and maintenance of
existing roads and will have positive environmental impacts - the provision of drainage structures will
reduce waterlogging; bitumen surfacing will eliminate the dust hazard; the hard shoulders will improve
safety; road safety measures will be applied to reduce congestion and accidents; and trees will be
planted on the embankment slopes of all project roads, more than compensating for tree felling during
construction. The physical environment, health standards and quality of life in the markets and ghats
will be improved through provision of free-draining paved areas, hygienic latrines, garbage disposal
facilities and potable water supplies. Bio-gas generators will be installed at markets to process solid
waste. The use of labour-intensive construction and maintenance methods, and of local materials
provides a sound environmental approach, and the use of environmentally-friendly construction
materials will be promoted, including bitumen emulsion which eliminates the need for firewood to heat
bitumen. The environmental category for this project is Category B.
LGED has carried out an environmental impact study with assistance from the preparation consultants,
based on LGED environmental guidelines, to identify all positive and negative project impacts and
define the mitigation measures. This has been used to prepare a Sectoral Enviromnental Assessment.
2.    Measures to Mitigate Negative Environmental Impacts of Road Improvements
The potential negative impacts are primarily related to the FRB works. Table 1 details these - classified
as High, Medium and Low risk - the proposed mitigation measures, and responsibilities for those
measures, which will be applied to design, contracting, supervision, and operation of roads.
Design
Environmental considerations are incorporated into the technical design standards. Alignments will be
adjusted to avoid cultural features. Sufficient structures will be provided, with adequate openings, to
maintain natural drainage and navigability of channels - locations and sizes of structures will be
determined based on field surveys, consultations with local people, and hydrological investigations.
All improved embankments will be above the high flood level, constructed from suitable soil and
mechanically compacted, with rigorous testing. Cambers and embankment slopes are specified to shed
surface water and maintain soil stability, and erosion protection measures will be applied where
necessary. All roads will be constructed with hard shoulders on each side of the pavement, and road
safety signs and warning markers will be installed. Road safety measures will be incorporated at
junctions, blackspots and adjacent to markets. Four project roads are within wildlife sanctuaries
(Bhawal, Bil Bhatia and Chalan Beel) but project activities will not disturb the critical natural habitats.
' Details are in the Project file, in Document entitled "Sectoral Environmental Assessment for RRMIMP-2"



Annex 3.9
198                                  Page 2 of 6
Contracting
The contract documents incorporate environmental considerations. They detail the design standards and
the procedures for testing of soil and compaction. They define the responsibilities of, and the
procedures that will be adopted by, contractors for location and operation of site camps; location,
excavation and reinstatement of borrow pits; temporary diversion of water channels and protection of
unstable embankments; haulage of materials; storage and handling of materials; disposal of waste; and
provision of road diversions and temporary traffic safety measures during construction.
Supervision
The compliance of contractors with the environmental requirements will be supervised by LGED, with
the assistance of the DSM consultants. Soil and compaction testing will be a key element of
supervision. LGED supervision staff will be trained in supervision of environmental aspects of
construction works. Attention will be paid to mitigating negative impacts of disposal of waste
materials, and the project will develop standards and indicators to monitor this. Trees will be planted
on road embankment slopes, except on the inside of curves.
Operation
Routine maintenance will be applied to all project roads, including caretaking of the trees. This will
mitigate against longer-term negative environmental impacts and sustain the environmental benefits.
Maintenance of the smooth road surfaces will encourage the use of non-motorised transport (NMT).
The pilot program to improve NMT will also promote the use of environmentally sound vehicles. The
extension of routine and periodic maintenance to non-project roads will enhance the environment.
Local government bodies will be encouraged to control development adjacent to the roads.
3.     Measures to Mitigate Negative Environmental Impacts of Market and Ghat Improvements
The environmental impacts of market and ghat improvements will be predominantly positive. Users
will participate in the detailed design of the improvements to ensure that the numbers and types of
facilities - including latrines and potable water supplies - meet local requirements. The main potential
negative impact is if inadequate provision is made for the drainage and disposal of surface and waste
water. The following measures will be taken to mitigate against this:
*     The DSM consultants will establish the design levels of the market and ghat paved areas to
ensure that they are free-draining. Internal drains, designed for easy cleaning, will be provided
in the market/ghat areas. Adequate, safe drain outfalls will be designed to ensure that there is
no drainage congestion.
*     LGED and the DSM consultants will supervise construction works to ensure that the paved
areas are built to the design levels and grades, and with the necessary outfalls. The project will
train LGED staff in the supervision of market and ghat construction.
*     The project will develop the capability of the Market and Ghat Management Committees to
maintain the markets and ghats. Improved procedures for cleaning the markets, maintaining
free-drainage and disposing of garbage will be introduced.



Annex 3.9
199                                Page 3 of 6
Following the pilot initiative taken by LGED under the RDP-6 project, bio-gas generators will be
installed in improved markets to process human, animal and vegetable waste to produce gas and
compost. Management Conmnittees will be trained in the operation of the generators.
4.    Monitoring
Monitoring of short-term negative environmental impacts during the construction phase will be
integrated into the supervision of the works. Longer-term environmental impacts of road improvement
works will be monitored in four ways:
*     Monitoring of compliance with design standards and specifications will be part of the
supervision of construction works.
The regular inspection of roads for the planning and implementation of maintenance will
generate data on their condition in respect of erosion, surface condition, state of tree
plantations, blockage of drainage structures and condition of road signs and markings.
Project SEM&E activities will include regular traffic counts on improved roads, generating
data to monitor changes in the levels of motorised and non-motorised traffic.
*     Special surveys will be carried out of a sample of improved roads to monitor the extent to
which any of the following negative impacts are occurring:
-     turbidity of roadside water;
-     drainage congestion during floods;
-     interference with boat communications;
-     pollution of surface and ground water;
-     disruption of fish migration and breeding;
-     encroachment of commercial and residential activities.
*     Monitoring of the environmental situation of improved markets and ghats will be incorporated
into monitoring of the effectiveness of project actions to increase the capability of Market and
Ghat Management Committees.
The project will report annually on the environmental impact of its activities, and on the effectiveness
of avoidance, mitigation and enhancement measures. The PIO staffing includes a full-time
Environmental Engineer who will have direct responsibility for monitoring and reporting.
5.    Institutional Strengthening
LGED has a program to address environmental issues at the planning and design stages. It has
guidelines on environmental assessment and two in-house environmental specialists. The guidelines are
now being revised. LGED also has an environmental training program for XENs.
The National Environmental Management Action Plan (NEMAP) will provide the national policy
framework on environmental management within which LGED will operate in future. LGED would
benefit from an in-house Environmental Unit to be responsible for environmental planning and
management. The LGED training program on environmental impact assessment should be expanded



200                                  Annex 3.9
Page 4 of 6
and made mandatory for all levels of personnel. Training in environmental matters should be extended
to contractors, and to Union Parishads and Market and Ghat Management Committees.
LGED should develop standard clauses on environmental aspects, similar to those adopted for the
RRMIMP-2, for inclusion in technical specifications and conditions of contract, together with
procedures for monitoring and supervision of mitigation measures during construction. The integration
of environmental concerns into LGED planning procedures, and the increased participation of local
people in all stages of infrastructure development, will enhance LGED's environmental performance.



TABLE 1: ROAD WORKS MITIGATION MEASURES AND RESPONSIBILITY
: Eniilrsmensd            Impact he                               M~gat1n: Mensures W.                                  h en AmPfd                   . Responobllity
'                                                                                                          '   '   ':  '   "  .   :: : ''. : :  ' ': - ,' ,:',: - '--' '' '''':' ::. '. '. '. . - --. ' - " '' ,,, '- - , ,, ' ' '' ':. :.:': :. '.   . . . .   . . . . . .   . . . .   .  
NAVIGATION            Obstruction of Navigation   '  Determine the high flood level in the vicinity of each project  Design stage                  DSM Consultants
Channels for Boats (M)         road
*  Design bridges spanning navigation routes to provide adequate    Design stage                DSM Consultants
clearance above high flood level for mechanised country boats
SOIL                  Soil Erosion and Siltation  *  Use suitable soil mechanically compacted, with rigorous testing   Design, Contracting and Construction  DSM Consultants and LGED
(M)                                                                                     stages
(  Plant earth shoulders and slopes of embankment with grass
Design. Contracting and Construction  DSM Consultants and LGED
stages
' Maintain embankment in good condition
Operation stage                     LGED
SOIL                  Soil Instability (L)        *  Maximum embankment slope to be 1:2 (vertical: horizontal)  Design, Contracting and Construction  DSM Consultants and LGED
stages
*  Reinforce unstable embankment slopes with masonry walls
Design, Contracting and Construcion  DSM Consultants and LGED
stages
* Line embankment slopes adjacent to waterways with cohesive
material                                                 Design, Contracting and Construction  DSM Consultants and LGED
stages
SOIL                  Soil Contamination (L)      *  Provide adequate slope/camber for surface drainage to     Design, Contracting and Construction  DSM Consultants and LGED
prevent/minimise soil pollution from vehicles           stages
*  Maintain shoulder camber                                 Operation stage                      LGED
SOIL                  Borrow Pits (L)             *  Borrow Pits to be as least 1Oim from the embankment toe   Contracting and Construction stages  LGED and DSM Consultants
Contracting and Construction stages
*  Encourage contractor to negotiate with land owners to excavate                                LGED and DSM Consultants,
borrow pits as fish ponds or for subsequent agricultural usage                               Contractors
Construction stage
* Ensure proper restoration of borrow pits
LGED, Contractors
NAVIGATION WAT    W'ater level Modification (M)   *  Provide adequate openings for flood flow, in order to prevent  Design stage                   DSM Consultants                     >
ERIDRAINAGE                                           the disruption of regional hydrology                                                                          .C_D_a
ON\



ECONOMIC               Encroachment of              *  Involve local government bodies in planning and design     Design stage                          LGED and DSM Consultants
ACTIVITIES             Commercial
Activities on Roadsides (M)    *  Encourage local bodies to enforce encroachment regulations  Operation stage                    LGED, Union Parishads
*  Take action on any development on right of way             Operation stage                       LGED
TRAFFIC                Reduction of Non-Motorised    *  Maintain road surface and hard shoulder in good condition to  Operation stage                   LGED
Traffic (H), and Increased      encourage use of passenger rickshaws, rickshaw vans and
Use of                          bicycles
Motorised Transport (M)
*  Pilot program to improve the role of non-motorised transport  Operation stage                    LGED and NGOs
TRAFFIC                Increased Speed and Volume    *  Incorporate safety measures - minimum curve radius, hard  Design and Contracting stages         DSM Consultants
of                              shoulders, warning signs and markings into road design
Traffic (M), and Resultant
Road Safety Problem (L)      '  Adopt specific safety measures at junctions, blackspots, and  Design and Contracting stages      DSM Consultants
adjacent to markets
*  Maintain road pavement, hard shoulders and signs and       Operation stage                       LGED
markings in good condition
WATER/DRAINAGE          Water Quality Deterioration    *  Advise relevant authorities to locate drinking water intake points    Operation stage           LGED
(L)                             away from the improved FRB alignments
NATURAL                 Tree Removal                 *  Plant trees on embankment slopes of all roads, except on inside of   Construction stage           LGED
ECOSYSTEM                                                curves
*  Improve present tree planting practices                     Construcion stage                    DSM Consultants and LGED
*  Organise caretaking oftrees as part of routine maintenance   Operation stage                     LGED
CULTURAL                Encroachment on or           *  Design road alignments to avoid cultural features            Design and Construction stages       DSM Consultants and LGED
FEATURES                Destruction
of Places of Worship, Burial
site,
Religious Property and other
Sites of Cultural Significance
0



203                                  Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Project Implementation Documents (PIDs):
PID-1 Transport Sector, Rural Transport and Trading System
PID-2 Annual Construction Program with Component Details
PID-3 Technical Standards and Costs for Road Improvement, Structures and Maintenance
PID-4 Technical Standards and Costs for Growth Center Markets
PID-5 Technical Standards and Costs for Ghats
PID-6 Terms of Reference for Design Supervision and Monitoring Consultants
PID-7 Terms of Reference for Small-Scale Contracting Industry
PID-8 Terms of Reference for Road Construction Contractor Unit Costs Study
PID-9 Terms of Reference for Feeder Road Type B (FRB) Regional Prioritization Study
PID-10 Terms of Reference for Long Term Socio-Economic Impact Study
PID- 11 Terms of Reference for Local Resource Mobilization - UPs
PID-12 Terms of Reference for Pavement Performance Monitoring Study
PID-13 Terms of Reference for Financial Audit Services
PID-14 Terms of Reference for Technical Audit Services
PID-15 Economic Appraisal of FRB Roads
PID-16 Economic Appraisal of Structures on Rural Roads (SRR)
PID-17 Economic Appraisal of Market Improvements
PID-18 Land Acquisition Action Plan (LGED/Consultants; October 1995)
2.    Other Proiect Files (PF)
PF-1  Sectoral Environmental Assessment for RRMIMP-2 (LGED/Consultants; October
1995).
PF-2  Bangladesh: Rural Infrastructure Development Strategy Note (LGED/IDA; April
1996).
PF-3  (Revised) Socio-Economic Impact of Recently Completed Roads and Markets of RDP-7
(December 1995).
PF-4  Identification and Preparation of RRMIMP-2 -- Draft Final Report, 3 volumes,
February 1995 by LGED/Consortium of Consultants: BCEOM, Development Design
Consultants, IT Transport, Kranti Associates, Resources Planning and Management
Consultants.
PF-5  Technical Documentation for Project Appraisal, RRMIMP-2 by LGED/Consortium of
Consultants: BCEOM, Development Design Consultants, IT Transport, Kranti
Associates, Resources Planning and Management Consultants.



204                                  Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 2
Studies on Participation and Local Financing (to finalize later)
PF-6  Community Participation in Rural Infrastructure Development by Dr. Dee Jupp.
PF-7  Use of Labor Contracting Societies in Rural Infrastructure by Mr. Mohammed
Faizullah.
PF-8  Financing of Local Level Infrastructures by Mr. Mohammed Faizullah.
PF-9  Institutional Issues in Participation by Dr. M. Rashiduzzaman.
PF-10 Market Leasing and Revenue Analysis (SEME; February 1996).
PF-1 1 Review of Updating of Road User Charges by House of Consultants, Dhaka
(November 1993).
PF-12 Management Capability Strengthening Project (MANCAPS) of LGED (TA-1809-BAN,
Asian Development Bank): Draft Action Plan: Directions in Management Development
of LGED (Consultants: ISO, Swedish Management Group), March 1995.
PF-13 Status of GIS development by LGED. Note by LGED; December 1995.
PF-14 GOB letters regarding meeting pre-Board conditions (October 23, 1996, October 30,
1996 and November 14, 1996.



IBRD 27808
BANGLADESH
g19rh.                                              SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS
(PThcurgon  i\ ,IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Thakuurgaon     hNoih \ 
)                     NOhaonirhat\/   I ,S \,                                        Project Area
i_                                      <;G,Y ->  'Project Area*
\,   Dinojpur    )R.ngpu<KutR                      Selected Cities and Towns            District Boundaries
\                                                    District Capitals--    Division Boundaries
.*    Division Capitals           --- International Boundaries
Gaibondh    6           Q    National Capital            'The project conpo-t on struOcres on rrgl oads
*                                m~~~~~~~~~~~~~ill have notion1 coverge.
"The District Capitols r,. also the District names.
6   R4J$;      14    h1   S rpur                          \,>   ~~~~~~~~~~Sunomgonj )SlhS9
RAJ                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Netrokono               Slh.t
J- aip.r    ~                      
)    X    <3>k   tt   8 Jomoipur~~~~ lutMynenningh)
Kishorgani                 Moolvi BoJor
> <,<* hi 6 , Serquo $ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hobigoni 
DHAKA
j1h    ; b      INDIA
0 Ch.odongo Jeadh       Rjoien
zI_ ~~~~Jher,oido  7  
Chandpur         '1
X.- or                                      Poroi S7hooripua3io   
G.palg-iH177AGONG-'~ 
INDIA             <IKHULNA                    polga3 
f)Sathhiro                                 B                      NkKhuln                Khoo Noakh .
0    <Bogerho       r~m
|~' Wn_   0i  AR    L )                                         .Chi9^i
Bodarbon  J
thin map do nat impl~~ on the part at       Bo      _                   ,f     &
The boundaries, colors, denom-nations                                                                                                        Y
The Word Bnk Group,any adgment7
on tdohrstats orfoccanpteioept h r        (
'NEPALI4Z-BHUTAN[
INDIA                                                                                                           Cox'M BNr
A-  0 MYANh1R                                      BAY OF BENGAL
i    -    MILES o  2           o50        75                                 7
BAY OF      I        .                    MILESO             25
BENGAL__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                          _ _
KILOMETERS 0       25      50     75      100
MARCH 1996






IBRD 2772.
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS
sHmAmAT                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
R                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
Chh.-                                                                  JAMALPUR~~~~~~3AE.~o~\DITRC  PROJECT COMPONENTS IN
/ I   ~ ~     ISRITNORTH WEST REGiON
(8 DISTRICTS)
)k  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 GOl4DTR~r
PR-I  PRA1W&nGOA. O
IRAJGANJ                  IYPEAF~~~~~~~~~rYE    B E EDERROA
A  -      A   GaWtHC4 MR.r
oay or nengai                                                          FARIDPUR           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAML4DR0
DISTRICTIT EAOURTR






laRD 27727
MYMENSHINGH DISTRICT
S                R        G         A        N~~~~ISORAJ         
TANGAIL                                                                                                      MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BNG4ADESH
DISTRIT                                                 NA                                                          S              S SECOND RURAL ROADS AND MARKEUS
;KALU*KR  * / S\JIMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
R A  J B NA       R                           I                            \                          ASURA                                                 ?PROJECT
DIST    CT                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT COMPONE  S s            - - INPECT C OES
GAZP JR                                                                                        MGREATER DHAKA AREA
(6 DISTRICTS)
TYRo FEof  RCOAM
A      A      A       4m aROWT  kTERM.T
Mmfl    RANDFAMUGI
m   0                               DISTRICT                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ROAD$LDERO.
-  NATIONALO&RGIOINALROADS
EE                                                                 TYK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TWA FEER ROAD
K.6h.  0                                                                            "L~~~~~~~~~-    ROAM
o   TRANA HRADOUAEIR
DISTRICT  B.-kh.W                                                                                                                             KXMM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DSRITRO~AES
-  -    RATON &UIAREE
-NOIA ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     F
U   ~~~~~N IA'.                 DISTRIISRCC
.....B....l    .d......,A.A..
D I TRIC T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UO 9









IMAGING
Report No:       15321 BD
Type: SAR



