Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2927-1 BD 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE’S  REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2927-1 BD 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project) 
dated December 19, 1996 (the Development Credit Agreement) as amended from time to 
time for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the rehabilitation of roads damaged by the 
May-September 1998 floods (the Floods) by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fourteen million seven hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,740,000); 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through\0bDecember 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (15) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below:
"15.  ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on\0bJune 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
Sub-paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"(a)
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from such territories;"
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
addition of a new Subsection (k) as follows:
"(k)
‘Amending Agreement’ means this agreement amending the Development 
Credit Agreement."
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred five 
million nine hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 105,940,000), 
being 
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Association as of the date of such withdrawal. The 
Credit shall be in two tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety-one million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 91,200,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche 
being an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million seven 
hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,740,000)."
Section 1.04. In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, the following 
new paragraph (c) is added:
"(c) 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account, or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially 
be 
charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, 
and 
shall thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche."
Section 1.05. A proviso is added at the end of subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.06. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 1.07. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Schedule 2 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.08. Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Schedule 3 to this Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: (a) 
Page  3
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and the 
Amending Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of Counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.K.M. Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
        Amount of 
Amount of the
Swiss Grant
      Credit Allocated      % of
      Allocated        % of
            (Expressed in    Expenditures (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category       SDR Equivalent) to be Financed CHF Equivalent) to be Financed
Financed
(1) Civil works
(a)Periodic    4,120,000
80% through
-
   -
maintenance
June 30, 1999
of roads and
30% thereafter
structure
(b) Other     71,740,000
80%
     -
   -
(c)Reha-      14,670,000
80%
 -
   -
Page  4
bilitation
   of roads,
structure,
markets,ghats
damaged by the
floods within
the greater
District of Dhaka,
Rajshahi,
Pabna and Bogra
(2)Pilot program    110,000
14%
1,137,500
   86%
improve non-
motorised 
transportation
(3)Equipment and  3,430,000
100% of foreign
  -
   -
goods expenditures 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally
(4) Technical 
Assistance 
(a) Studies    2,010,000
100%
  -
   -
(including 
follow-up 
project 
preparation)
(b) Incremental 400,000
14%
 3,437,500
   66%
 staff 
and 
operating
costs
(c) Design,   1,160,000
14%
12,925,000
   86%
supervision, 
monitoring
and audit 
services
(d)  Design,      70,000
16%
   700,000
   84%
supervision,
monitoring and 
audit services 
for flood rehab.
of the roads, 
bridges, markets/
ghat damaged by
the Floods
(e) Training       -
    -
 1,250,000
   100%
and study
tours 
(5) Unallocated  8,230,000   -       -
   -
Total      105,940,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
1,400,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) (c) and Category (4) (d) on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1996.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding 
Page  5
the equivalent of: (i) $200,000 for goods and works, (ii) $100,000 for the services of 
consulting firms, and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual consultants, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the quality; and operational 
and cost efficiency, of the rural transportation and marketing systems; (ii) to create 
employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor, particularly for 
disadvantaged women; (iii) to promote the participation of local communities and NGOs 
in project activities; and (iv) to increase institutional capacity for efficient rural 
infrastructure management and maintenance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Section I.
Project Area
The following parts of the Project shall be carried out in the Project Area:
Part A:
Improvement and Upgrading of Selected FRB Roads
1.
Improvement and upgrading of about 575 km of selected FRB roads, bridges and 
culverts on other FRB roads, including tree planting alongside the roads and road 
safety measures.
2.
Construction of a new LGED facility (office/laboratory/workshop) in Dhaka 
District and improvement of existing facilities in other Districts.
Part B:
Road Maintenance 
Development and implementation of a routine and periodic maintenance system for 
all FRB roads, major RR1 Roads, and structures on rural roads.
Part C:
Improvement of Rural Markets
Improvement of infrastructure and common facilities in about 136 Growth Center 
Markets and 14 local markets.
Part D:
Rehabilitation and Construction of River Jetties (Ghats)
Improvement of landing and unloading facilities through rehabilitation or 
construction of about 41 river jetties and facilities for country boats.
Section II.
Nationwide
The following parts of the Project shall be carried out nationwide in the 
Borrower’s territory:
Part E:
Construction of Drainage Structures on Rural Roads
Improvement of existing RR1, RR2 and RR3 roads, with emphasis on local community 
participation, through construction of about 6,000 culverts and small bridges 
(approximately, 31,600 linear meters) on existing rural roads to make them passable 
through the year, and correction of drainage problems created by existing rural roads.
Part F:
Improvement of Non-Motorized Transportation
Improvement of non-Motorized transportation through a pilot program and with 
emphasis on NGO participation and dissemination of information which focuses on 
improving safety and design of non-motorized vehicles, such as rickshaw-vans, 
passenger rickshaws and bullock carts.
Part G:
Enhancement of Road Construction and Maintenance Quality and Efficiency
Enhancement of quality and efficiency of road construction and maintenance 
activities through provision of equipment to LGED for road construction, maintenance, 
offices, laboratories and training.
Page  6
Part H:
Institutional and Human Resource Development
Increasing and strengthening the institutional, managerial and technical 
capacities of LGED, local government agencies and the local construction industry 
through institutional and human resource development, including fiscal and technical 
audits.
Part I:
Implementation Support
1.
Provision of technical assistance and other support to LGED for the design, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including follow-up rural 
infrastructure project preparation.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for design, supervision, monitoring of 
Rehabilitation Works of Road, Bridges/Culverts, Markets and Ghats damaged by 1998 
Flood.
Part J:
Rehabilitation of about 1600 Km. Feeder Roads, 5600 m. Bridges/Culverts, 70 Nos. 
Markets and 3 Nos. Ghats damaged by 1998 flood.
*            *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Section I and 
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purpose of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 per 
contract or more shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  7
Civil works contracts for restoration of roads and bridges damaged by the floods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $19,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part C hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultants Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall 
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modification as shall have been 
agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exception to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
Section III:
Procurement for Financing Under Second Tranche
Notwithstanding any other provision set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement as amended, the works and services required for items to be financed 
Page  8
under the Second Tranche shall be procured from the Participating Countries only.
