Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2927 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 8, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2927 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1997, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of The Swiss 
Confederation (Switzerland) a grant (the Swiss Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
eighteen million seven hundred fifty thousand Swiss Francs (CHF 18,750,000) to assist 
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(C)
Switzerland and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the 
Administration Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided by 
Switzerland under the Swiss Grant Agreement and regulating certain other matters of 
common interest in connection with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"District," "Thana" and "Union" mean the administrative divisions within 
the Borrower's territory;
(b)
"FRB Roads" means feeder/rural roads classified as type "B" by the 
Borrower;
(c)
"FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the Borrower's fiscal year commencing July 1 
and ending June 30 each year;
(d)
"Growth Center Market" means the markets so designated by the National 
Planning Commission of the Borrower;
(e)
"LGED" means the Local Government Engineering Department, an agency of 
the Local Government Division of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development 
and Cooperatives of the Borrower;
(f)
"Market" means a market controlled by the Local Government Division of 
the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives;
(g)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization operating in the territory of 
the Borrower; 
(h)
"PIO" means the Project Implementation Office established by the Borrower 
under LGED for the purpose of implementation of the Project;
(i)
"Project Area" means the area located in the Greater Dhaka Area and 
Northwest Region and within the Districts of Manikganj, Munshiganj, Narayanganj, 
Gazipur, Narshingdi, Dhaka, Rajshahi, Naogaon, Natore, Nawabganj, Pabna, Sirajganj, 
Bogra and Joypurhat;
(j)
"RR1 Roads," "RR2 Roads" and "RR3 Roads" mean rural roads classified by 
the Borrower as Type 1, Type 2 and Type 3 respectively;
(k)
"Rural Roads" means, collectively, FRBs and RR1, RR2 and RR3 Roads;
 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Swiss Francs" and "CHF" mean the currency of Switzerland; and 
 
(n)
"Union Parishad" means a local government body at the Union level.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety-one million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 91,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1, and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2007 and ending July 1, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid.  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  4
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, financial, environmental and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to the generality of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
Borrower shall select, design and implement components of the Project, related to the 
improvement, construction, maintenance and management of feeder roads, Growth Center 
Markets, ghats, drainage structures and other facilities, or cause the selection, 
design and implementation of such components to be done in accordance with criteria, 
procedures and time frames satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 1999, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
Page  5
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Borrower shall have taken any action to disestablish LGED or to 
suspend its operations;
(b)
Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; and
(c)
Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur; 
and
Page  6
(b)
the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur, 
subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Swiss Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary, Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations 
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
  Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ K.M. Shehabuddin
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and the Swiss Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Swiss Grant
Amount of the
Allocated
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in    % of
(Expressed in Expenditures   
    CHF
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works
    (a) Periodic 4,120,000 80% through
     --
--
    maintenance
June 30, 1999
    of roads and
30% thereafter
    structures
    (b) Other   71,740,000 80%
     --
--
(2) Pilot program
 110,000
14%
  1,137,500
86%
    to improve non-
    motorized
    transportation
(3) Equipment    3,430,000 100% of foreign
     --
--
    and goods
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(4) Technical
    Assistance
    (a) Studies
2,010,000
100%
     --
--
    (including
    follow-up
    project
    preparation)
   (b) Incremental  400,000
14%
    3,437,500 60%
   staff and
   operating costs
   (c) Design,
1,160,000
14%
   12,925,000 86%
   supervision,
   monitoring
   and audit
   services
   (d) Training
     --
--
    1,250,000 100%
Page  8
   and study tours
(5) Unallocated
8,230,000
--
TOTAL
     91,200,000
   18,750,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental staff salaries and operating costs" means the cost 
of additional staff employed exclusively by LGED for purposes of the Project, and the 
cost of operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles and equipment procured under 
the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,400,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories 1 (b), 4 (a) and 4 (c) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1996.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent, and (b) services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are[MP4]: (i) to improve the quality, and 
operational and cost efficiency, of the rural transportation and marketing systems; 
(ii) to create employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor, 
particularly for disadvantaged women; (iii) to promote the participation of local 
communities and NGOs in project activities; and (iv) to increase institutional 
capacity for efficient rural infrastructure management and maintenance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Section I.
Project Area
 
The following parts of the Project shall be carried out in the Project Area:
Part A:
Improvement and Upgrading of Selected FRB Roads
 
1.
Improvement and upgrading of about 575 km of selected FRB roads, bridges and 
culverts on other FRB roads, including tree planting alongside the roads and road 
safety measures.
2.
Construction of a new LGED facility (office/laboratory/workshop) in the Dhaka 
District and improvement of existing facilities in other Districts.
Part B:
Road Maintenance
 
Development and implementation of a routine and periodic maintenance system for 
all FRB roads, major RR1 Roads, and structures on rural roads.
Part C:
Improvement of Rural Markets
 
Improvement of infrastructure and common facilities in about 136 Growth Center 
Markets and 14 local markets.
Part D:
Rehabilitation and Construction of River Jetties (Ghats)
Page  9
Improvement of landing and unloading facilities through rehabilitation or 
construction of about 41 river jetties and facilities for country boats.
Section II.
Nationwide
 
The following parts of the Project shall be carried out nationwide in the 
Borrower's territory:
Part E:
Construction of Drainage Structures on Rural Roads
 
Improvement of existing RR1, RR2 and RR3 Roads, with emphasis on local community 
participation, through construction of about 6,000 culverts and small bridges 
(approximately, 31,600 linear meters) on existing rural roads to make them passable 
throughout the year, and
correction of drainage problems created by existing rural roads.
Part F:
Improvement of Non-Motorized Transportation
 
Improvement of non-motorized transportation, through a pilot program and with 
emphasis on NGO participation and dissemination of information which focuses on 
improving safety and design of non-motorized vehicles, such as rickshaw-vans, 
passenger rickshaws and bullock carts.
Part G:
Enhancement of Road Construction and Maintenance Quality and Efficiency
 
Enhancement of quality and efficiency of road construction and maintenance 
activities through provision of equipment to LGED for road construction, maintenance, 
offices, laboratories and training.
Part H:
Institutional and Human Resource Development
 
Increasing and strengthening the institutional, managerial and technical 
capacities of LGED, local government agencies and the local construction industry 
through institutional and human resource development, including fiscal and technical 
audits.
Part I:
Implementation Support
 
Provision of technical assistance and other support to LGED for the design, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including follow-up rural 
infrastructure project preparation.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
Page  10
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be  advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent and, except as provided in 
paragraph 3 of this Part C, works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
 
Ancillary earthwork, tree-planting, small culvert installation work and other 
ancillary rural infrastructure work required for Parts A through E of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be carried out through negotiated contracts, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
Page  11
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms and individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, 
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms or individuals raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall review with the Association by September 30, 1997, road 
classification revisions made by LGED as a consequence of the increase in Growth 
Center Markets from 1,400 markets to 2,100 markets and, thereafter, take into account 
the Association's recommendations and views in finalizing the revisions.
2.
The Borrower shall complete or cause to be completed by December 31, 1997, a 
study on Union Parishad's  financial resource mobilization and, in consultation with 
the Association, prepare or cause to be prepared a plan of action based on the agreed 
recommendations under said study and implement or cause to be implemented such plan of 
action by December 31, 1998.
3.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B of the Project, provide to the 
Association for its approval by June 30 each year during Project implementation, an 
annual Project Area maintenance program for the following Fiscal Year.
4.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
for purposes of routine and periodic maintenance of all maintainable 
Rural Roads, culverts and bridges in the Borrower's territory, provide an annual 
budget allocation of at least $21 million equivalent for FY 1997/1998 and, thereafter, 
increase the budget allocation annually by $2.5 million equivalent through FY 
2001/2002; and
(b)
in the event that external funding for the Borrower's Road Maintenance 
Program (RMP) is discontinued or reduced below the FY 1996/1997 funding level for 
whatever reason, provide additional annual budget allocation or obtain funds from 
other sources for RMP or any similar program, in an amount at least equivalent to the 
FY 1996/1997 external funding.
5.
The Borrower shall cause LGED to appoint by March 31, 1997, a qualified 
maintenance engineer in every District and Thana within the Borrower's territory.
6.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
for purposes of Part G of the Project: (i) rent construction equipment to 
contractors; (ii) ensure that charges for renting such equipment are sufficient to 
cover the maintenance and replacement costs of such equipment; and (iii) make 
available to LGED annually,  through budget allocations into a separate identifiable 
item in LGED's budget, for maintenance and replacement costs of such equipment, funds 
equivalent to the estimated rent collections for the following FY; and
(b)
furnish to the Association annually accounts relating to said rental 
charges, collections and allocations under the foregoing provision of subparagraph (a) 
above.
7.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part H of the Project: 
 
(a)
cause LGED to fill by March 31, 1997, seven high level staff positions in 
LGED (second Additional Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineer, Assistant Engineer 
(two positions), Transport Economist, Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist and 
Sociologist) and, beginning in FY 2000/2001, provide funds for these positions from 
its budget;
(b)
implement the recommendations made in the study dated March 1995, carried 
out under the Borrower's Management Capability Strengthening Project (MANCAPS), on: 
(i) improved financial management and internal auditing; and (ii) reduction in control 
span through delegation of the responsibilities of the Chief Engineer, LGED, by 
creating about six regional offices by March 31, 1997, each office to be headed by a 
Page  12
Superintending Engineer; and
(c)
establish, under the coordination of the Ministry of Local Government, 
Rural Development and Cooperatives of the Borrower, a Working Committee, consisting of 
representatives from the private and public sectors, by March 31, 1997, to promote 
private sector participation in the infrastructure sector, and ensure that the Working 
Committee shall meet at least semiannually and the Association shall be furnished the 
results of such meetings.
8.
Without limitation to Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall 
acquire the land, required for the carrying out of the Project, in accordance with a 
land acquisition action plan dated November 1995 agreed with the Association.
9.
The Borrower shall carry out all necessary measures to mitigate the possible 
negative environmental impact of road, market and ghat improvements under the Project 
in accordance with a sectoral environmental action plan dated October 1995 agreed with 
the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall, beginning July 1, 1997, conduct or cause to be conducted 
every six months, technical audits by consultants acceptable to the Association, to 
assess, on a sample basis, the amount and quality of civil works carried out under the 
Project in the preceding six-month or longer period and submit such technical audit 
report to the Association within three months after each audit.
11.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the PIO until the 
completion of the Project.
12.
The Borrower shall: (a) not increase its share of revenues beyond 25% of lease 
revenues earned from the Markets; and (b) not decrease the 50% allocation to Union 
Parishads of revenues earned from land transfer tax.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) and (4) 
(a) through (c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  13
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
repayment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  14
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
