Documeni of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL I SE ONLY
Repurt No. P-4169-PH
a
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$69 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
March 19, 1986
This document has a restricted di%tribution and may be used bs recipients only in the perf.mrmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Uorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =         Pesos
P 1                          US$0.0535
P 18.7             =         US$1.00
(as of February 11, 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
cu m   =   cubic meter (1,000 Liters or 264 US gallons)
ha     =   hectare (2.47 acres)
km     =   kilometer (0.62 miles)
1      =   liter (0.26 US gallons)
1/cd   =   liter per capita per day (0.26 US glcd)
m      =   meter (3.ZS foot)
MI/d   =   million liters per day (264,172 US g/d)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB             Asian Development Bank
IDC      =      Interest During Construction
LWUA     =      Local Water UtiLities Administration
MLG      =      Ministry of Local Government
MOH      =      Ministry of Health
MPWH     =      Ministry of PubLic Works and Highways
MWS II   =      Second Manila Water Supply Project
MWS III         Third Manila Water Supply Project
MWSS     =      Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
RWDC     =      Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
RWSA            Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Association
USAID    =      United States Agency for InternationaL Development
WD              Water District



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower       Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:   Metropoiitan Waterworks and Sewetage System (MWSS)
Amount:        US$69 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standardi variable rate.
Relending
Terms:       Government would relend the entire loan proceeds to M1SS on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank. MWSS would carry the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description: The proposed project would assist MWSS to optimize the
utilization of existing infrastructure and thus make signifi-
cant improvements in its level of internal cash generation and
financial performance.  It would also assist MWSS to improve
its operational efficiency. Specifically, this would be
achieved under the proposed project by improving the water
supply in the MWSS service area through: (a) the completion of
works commenced under the Second Manila Water Supply Project,
including construction of about 3 km of bulk water supply
mains, 17 km of primary, secondary and tertiary distribution
lines, and installation of about 100,000 service connections;
(b) construction of about 8 km of additional bulk water supply
mains; (c) construction of additional water distribution works
providing water to about 72 existing subdivisions, comprising
some 16,000 households; (d) infilling the distribution network
in about 24 areas covering about 13,500 households; (e) pro-
vision of yard connections and standpipes in about 160 low-
income areas to serve about 70,000 households; (f) acquisition
of about 100,000 water meters; (g) improvement to the
distribution system through the installment of control valves;
{h) development of about five deep wells; (i) future project
preparation including seismic monitoring system for a future
dam site; and (j) institutional support including consulting
services, training and provision of motor vehicles and
computing facilities. The proposed project would provide water
to many unserved low-income areas and directly benefit the
urban poor.
This documcnt hag * rr    distribution and may be umd by rwcipients only in the performance
of tbeir offlcd dutiL Its contents myr nototherwise be disclmnd witbout World Bank authrization.



- ii -
There are no unusual risks associated with this project. The
major challenges to MWSS are to meet the water meter connection
and water loss reduction targets. The management and coordina-
tion of these activities, which must be regarded as the two
most difficult tasks in water supply management, will preoccupy
the implementing agency. However, through a recent reorganiza-
tion including the strengthening of the upper levels of manage-
ment, decentralization of operations, and the continuation of a
staff training program, appropriate steps have been taken to
minimize risks.
Project Costs:                          Local      Foreig   Total
mlI lion)
Water mains - ongoing works          15.8        14.6     30.4
Water mains - new works               1.6         2.7      4.3
Distribution and connections         19.4         9.5     28.9
Technical assistance                  1.4         8.0      9.4
Base cost                        38.2        34.8     73.0
Physical contingencies                2.8         1.6      4.4
Price contingencies                   4.3         3.6      7.9
Total project cost /a                45.3        40.0     85.3
Interest during construction
-  Bank financed                       -          8.0      8.0
-  Other                                          3.0      3.0
Total financing required        45.3        51.0     96.3
Financing Plan
IBRD                                 21.0        48.0     69.0
MWSS                                 24.3         3.0     27.3
Total                             45.3        51.0     96.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                    1986      1987    1988      1989     1990       1991
…cs--------------------(*  iirr on) )-  -------
Annual             4.9    20.6    20.1    12.4       8.1       2.9
Cumulative        4.9    25.5    45.6    58.0       66.1     69.0
Financial Internal Rate of Return:   40Z
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5903-PH, dated February 11, 1986.
Maps: IBRD-19089 and IBRD-19090.
/a   Including identifiable taxes and duties estimated at $4.3 million
equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $69.0 million to help
finance the Metropolitan Manila water distribution project. The Government
would relend the entire loan proceeds to MWSS on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The loan would be repaid
over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Pet-'nrmance in the 1970s
2.        During the 1970s, the growth rate of the Philippine economy averaged
6.2% compared to only 5.1% in the 1960s. The agricultural sector grew at
about 4.9Z p.a. and manufacturing industry at 7.2%. Manufacturing, however,
did not play a leading role in the country's economic development. Its share
in total CDP increased only slightly, from 23% to 25Z, and its share in total
employment actually fell from l1Z to 11. Although manufactured exports grew
rapidly, the greater part of the sector remained oriented to the domestic
market and was affected by severe inefficiencies.
3.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses held it below its full potential. GDP growth was
achieved at a high investment cost -- the incremental capital/output ratio
(ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable Asian countries.
Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure investments explain part
of the high ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was the most important
cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and exchange rate policies
designed to foster import substitution provided high protection for domestic
manufacturers, and led to investments in which the Philippines did not have a
clear comparative advantage. External borrowing and imports expanded rapidLy
while traditional exports and domestic resource mobilization lagged. This
resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign exchange and increasing external
debt.
4.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 40%, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The in^idence of
poverty reached 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack
safe water, basic education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavor-
able man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal
lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and the
sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade, put downward pressure on
real incomes. The Government instituted severaL programs to improve directly



the living conditions of the poor, but most of these were not implemented on
any significant scale until just a few years ago.
5.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from about 3% in
the 1960s to about 2.5Z in the early 1980s; the labor force continues to grow
at over 3% per year, reflecting the high rate of growth in past decades.
Thus, rapid population and labor force growth continue to strain available
land resources, aggravate the already serious unemployment and poverty prob-
lems, and burden the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic
public services. The Philippines has a family planning program which expanded
rapidly during the 1970s; however, participation in the program needs to
expand further in order to have a significant impact on population growth.
6.        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and con-
siderable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agriculture and ser-
vice sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to
the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
7.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have exacer-
bated the balance of payments and resource mobilization problems. In the late
1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply due to oil price
increases, accelerated internationaL inflation and depressed prices for major
export commodities. The continued heavy reliance on export earnings from a
few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper and timber) kept the Philippines
extremely vulnerable to international commodity price fluctuations, while con-
tinued high dependence on imported oil further aggravated the balance of
payments problem.
8.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
inefficiency of inveetment and stagnant employment in industries producing for
the domestic market.  The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; £lthough manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earni'gs were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures indu-7ed rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, e.g., garments, electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970
to $3 billion in 1984. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Government has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive. The program includes major tariff reform,
liberalization of import controls, realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The program is proceeding well considering the
international recession and domestic crisis which have hampered the impLemen-
tation of some policy reforms.



-3-
9.        Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the financial sector has
not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and providing
investment financing. Among the main reasons have been the level and struc-
ture of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient savings
and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to relatively
inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central Bank's
rediscounting schemes frequently encouraged overinvestment in some sectors
while others were relatively neglected. Starting in 1980, the Government
introduced far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking system was
given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central
Bank was given a stronger position in its role as "lender-of-last-resort," all
of which produced positive real interest rates and a significant increase in
financial savings. Adverse international and domestic conditions have
resulted in a deterioration in the financial positions of both private banks
and government financial institutions (CFI). While the Covernment has
examined various proposals to restructure GFIs, an overall program of reform
has not yet been put in place. The Government also needs to address issues
affecting private intermediaries and the evolution of the financial system as
a whole.
10.       AgricuLtural and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, policy and institu-
tional problems constrained sectoral growth. Although there were considerable
gains in food production and towards self-sufficiency, particularly in rice,
the sector could have made a stronger contribution to the balance of payments
and overall economic growth under a more favorable policy environment. Trade,
pricing and exchange rate policies discriminated against agriculture and had a
negative impact on rural incomes. The institutional framework for agricul-
tural policy formulation and implementation suffered from a lack of coordina-
tion. During the last two years the Government has made a concerted effort to
address these problems in the sector through a program of policy and institu-
tional reform. Additional steps will need to be taken in order to enhance
agriculture's potential contribution to economic recovery.
11.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through
a combination of pricing, taxation and conservation measures, the Government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply, i.e., the development of hydroelectric,
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979,
although exploration has now slowed down because of lower oil prices. As a
result of the Government's energy program, domestic energy production consti-
tuted 45% of total energy supply in 1985, compared with only 21Z in 1979. The
volume of oil imports fell from a high of 71 million barrels in 1977 to an
estimated 47 million barrels in 1985. The Government has included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at increas-
ing the share of domestic sources to nearly 55% of commercial energy supply by
1987.



-4-
Performance During the 1980s
12.       Despite the adverse external situation in the early eighties, the
Government increased its investment program to make up for deficiencies in
domestic infrastructure, expand industry and reduce the dependence on imported
petroleum. The public sector investment program rose from about 6X of CUP in
1979 to 9Z by 1981. A portion of the investment program consisted of large
scale projects having long gestation periods and often Limited or delayed
economic benefits. Private sector projects continued to rely on loans and
guarantees by public financial institutions, which then had to turn to the
Government for budgetary support when these projects encountered difficulties
because of adverse domestic or external circumstances. At the same time,
public sector resource mobilization declined, producing a large and growing
government budgetary deficit.  This deficit was covered in large part by
foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign borrowing financed over 702 of both the
Government's deficit and the deficit of the public corporations.
13.       The impact of adverse external conditions and expanding public debt
was a growing balance of payments deficit and increasingly difficult debt
service burden. The current account deficit rose from $1.9 billion in 1980,
to $3.2 billion in 1982. The total debt service ratio, including interest on
short term debt, increased from 21Z in 1980 to 38% in 1982. During 1983,
foreign banks began reducing their exposure in the Philippines. The Govern-
ment was increasingly forced to resort to short-term borrowings to finance the
balance of payments gap, which further exacerbated the debt service problem.
While the terms of trade improved in 1983, a severe drought reduced agricul-
tural exports, and overall export earnings fell. The situation was further
exacerbated by political disruptions, a flight of capital out of the country,
and a cessation of short-term lines of credit from the commercial banks. In
October 1983, the Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt repayments,
a further devaluation of the peso, and new controls over the allocation of
foreign exchange for imports.
14.       In December 1984, the IMF Board approved an eighteen month standby
agreement in the amount of SDR 615 million, and agreement was reached with the
members of the Paris Club for the rescheduling of approximately $0.8 billion
in official debt payments. An agreement was also worked out with the private
banks on May 20, 1985 for the provision of about $6 biLlion of debt relief for
the two year period ending December 31, 1986, along with $925 million in new
money and the establishment of a $3 billion trade facility.
15.       As part of the stabilization program, the Government has adopted a
number of important measures and improved its management of the economic and
financial crisis. Since 1984, the peso has been aLlowed to float and exchange
controls adopted during the 1983 crisis have been eliminated. Important
structural reforms have been initiated in the sugar and coconut subsectors,
designed to improve accountability and marketing efficiency. Price controls
on many basic commodities, including rice, have been dropped. New tax
measures have been introduced despite a shrinking of the tax base. The
Government has carried out a comprehensive review of its investment program
for the period 1986-89, reduced the program to an essential minimum and
undertaken the first periodic review in mid 1985. As a result, public



- 5 -
investment has been reduced from 7.2% of GNP in 1983, to 4.42 in 1984 and an
estimated 3.6% in 1985. The Government has also been working closely vith the
Bank on a program to rationalize the operations of government-owned or
controlled corporations. The Bank has also cooperated with the Fund on
incorporating certain structural measures into the standby agreement,
particularly in the areas of trade liberalization, public investment and the
coconut/sugar subsectors. Since February 1986, a new Government has come to
power in Manila. However, preLiminary discussions between Bank staff and
Government representatives indicate that these reforms will be continued
and/or expanded.
16.       Overall, there has been good progress in meeting the objectives of
the stabilization program. The current account deficit in the balance of pay-
ments and the budget deficit were reduced in 1984 in line with the program,
and the rate of inflation has sharply diminished. The inflation rate during
1985 was about 6% (December to December basis), compared to 50% during 1984.
The current account deficit dropped from 3.9Z of GNP in 1984 to less than 1Z
of GNP in 1985. The Government, from time to time, has been unable to meet
certain performance criteria under the standby program. Nevertheless, because
the broad thrust of the stabilization effort has been maintained, understand-
ings have been reached between the Government and the IMF on revised criteria
enabling the drawing of the second tranche in July, and the third and fourth
tranches in December 1985. The Fund has not held the third program review
required for further drawings under the existing program. Fund staff have
initiated discussions with the new administration and proposes to have further
discussions in April.
17.       In view of the financial and economic problems of the economy, the
Bank has stepped up its aid coordination activities. The last Consultative
Group (CC) meeting was held in January 1985 in Paris. At the meeting, the
members of the group decided to establish a subcommittee to monitor progress
in the implementation of the economic stabilization and structural adjustment
programs and the flow of aid. The first subcommittee meeting was held in
Tokyo in July 1985, and additional meetings of the subcommittee are likely.
MediumrTerm Prospects
18.       While the stabilization program has been broadly successful, it has
come with a high cost in terms of reduced output and growth. GDP increased in
real terms by only 12 in 1983, declined by 4.6% in 1984, and is estimated to
have declined a further 4% in 1985. As a result of fairly rapid population
growth (2.5%), per capita output has declined by over 15% during the past 3
years, unemployment has increased and real wages have declined. Employment in
manufacturing declined by 5% in 1984 and by 7X in the first haLf of 1985.
19.       In the long term, the solution to the economic crisis lies with a
resumption of growth in output and exports. The challenge faced by the
Government in the coming year will be to restore growth without a resumption
of inflation and while maintaining a viable balance of payments. Essential
elements in the recovery program will be measures to accelerate exports,
increase public and private savings, and use investment resources more
efficiently than in the past. Attention will have to be directed at
industrial restructuring, reform of the financial system, and institutional



improvements in agriculture. A combination of government actions, a resto-
ration of private sector confidence, and increased external assistance should
make possible a resumption of growth closer to historical experience or about
4-52. Over the longer term, therefore, the country remains creditworthy for
new Bank borrowing on conventional terms, despite current short-term difficul-
ties. Because the country faces an exceptionally tight resource position,
local cost financing for selected projects will continue to be justified.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
20.       As of September 30, 1985, the Philippines had received 98 Bank loans
(of which two were oa Third Window terms) amounting to $4,065.0 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$159.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total MLT debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 15% and its share in total debt service is
about 27%. These ratios are expected to be about 17% and 12%, respectively,
by 1990. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1985.
21.       Bank Group Lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million and 4 loans pzr year in FY71-75 to an average of about
$460 million and seven loans in FY79-83. However, the lending program
decreased dramatically in FY84 (5 loans for $183.2 million) and FY85 (3 loans
for $254 million) because of the limited scope for traditional project lending
under prevailing economic circumstances. The Bank has financed projects in
virtually all sectors of the economy, with particular emphasis on agriculture
which has accounted for almost one third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending
for industry, transportation, power, and social sectors followed in declining
order. Wich regard to the future, the lending program is being revised to
make it more responsive and relevant to the country's current needs. During
the next two years, the operations would focus on essential macro-economic and
sectoral policy reforms, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
infrastructure, and high priority activities that would minimize the need for
budgetary support.
22.       In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
The experience with irrigatic.n has been positive with the establishment of a
strong institution and expansion in irrigated areas, although cost recovery
and maintenance are still problems. Efforts have also been made to diversify
agricultural production througih loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisher:_s,
and integrated rural development projects. In FY85, the Bank provided
assistance under the Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project to support programs of
policy and institutional reforms, and the Agricultural Credit Project to
provide credit to agricultural producers and to help establish a framework for
a financially sound rural credit system.
23.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program. Struc-
tural adjustment lending in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total), supported a
series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of industrial incen-
tives, energy pricing and export promotion. The reforms suffered a setback in



- 7 -
the current economic crisis but the Government remains committed to progress
in these areas, which we expect will be resumed and expanded. A trade libera-
lization and tariff reform study is currently underway. The first part of the
study, now completed, addressed the phase-out of the quantitative restrictions
on imports in accordance with a timetable agreed with Government. The second
part of the study will examine what future changes in the tariff rates may be
necessary when the present program ends in 1985. An Industrial Finance Loan
supported improvements in financial sector policies including liberalizing
interest rates, reducing bank specialization and increasing the availability
of longer term funds. It also introduced a new institutional concept to
broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit
in the Central Bank. A Bank project in support of restructuring of the
textile sector (Loan 2127-PH) was unsuccessful in meeting its objectives due
to the collapse of industrial investment demand. The undisbursed portion of
the credit component of this project has been cancelled. In addition, the
Bank has continued to provide financial support and technical assistance to
small and medium industries. Future assistance will be geared towards broad
policy reform and regulation of financial intermediaries and restructuring of
the CFIs (para. 9). For the export sector, the principal emphasis will be on
complementing the broader trade and industrial policy reforms by strengthening
the institutions concerned with export promotion and reducing the bottlenecks
to expansion of the small and medium export sector.
24.       In the urban and water supply sectors, lending has, to date, focused
on lowering investment standards and costs, increasing private sector partici-
pation, and helping the Government develop appropriate policies and institu-
tional frameworks in line with its corporate rationalization program. In the
urban sector, the Bank has supported under three consecutive loans, a program
of upgrading, serviced sites and small business loan schemes. In addition,
the Bank has provided loans for regional and municipal development. In the
water supply sector, the Bank has supported the Government's long-term invest-
ment program to increase production and distribution of water in the Metro
Manila area under two water supply projects as well as a Metro Manila sewerage
and sanitation project. The Bank has also financed three water supply/sanita-
tion loans in the provincial and ruraL areas. In the future, the main
objective for both sectors is to continue to strengthen the institutions with
which the Bank deaLs and to assist the Government to formulate sector prior-
ities, investment programs and appropriate financial policies.
25.       As a result of the country's economic and financial problems, and
particularly the tight budgetary constraints of the Government, implementation
of Bank-financed projects in the Yhilippines deteriorated in the last three
years. The disbursement factor 1 (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as
compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the same fiscal year)
for FY85 was 14.4%, down from the FY84 level of 19.6%; the latter was Largely
a result of the immediate impact of the Special Action Program (see below).
1/   AlL calculations of the disbursement factor exclude disbursements under
Structural Adjustment Loans.



- 8 -
The comparable FY85 ratios for Thailand and Morocco 2/ were 27% and 13X. The
East Asia Regional average and the Bank-wide average uere both about 22% in
FY85. To deal with the implementation problems, the Government and the Bank
have instituted a process of joint Country Implementation Reviews. Six
reviews have been held since May 1980. The Bank and the Government also
agreed, under the Special Action Program (SAP), on corrective actions to
address project implementation problems affecting the Bank's loan portfolio in
the Philippines. Under the SAP, selected projects have benefitted from
increased cost sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment oi special
accounts and in two cases, supplementary financing. These actions facilitated
project implementation and resulted in improvements in disbursement perfor-
mance during FY84.
26.       This will be the first loan to the Philippines to be presented to
the Executive Directors in FY86. A rural roads project, and a Central Visayas
regional development project (urban) have been appraised and are also
scheduled for Board presentation in this fiscal year. In addition, loans for-
a public corporate sector rationalization project, a land classification and
titling project, an export development technical assistance project, a sugar
rehabilitation project, an irrigation operations support project, and a
geothermal development project are now in various stages of preparation.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Sector Background
27.       The Philippines is well endowed with natural fresh water resources.
Its average annual rainfall is in the order of 3,000 mm. It has more than 100
major rivers, about 60 natural lakes, and significant groundwater resources.
However, as the population grew, the most easily accessible and cheapest water
resources were generally exploited. Many of the sources are now inadequate to
support the present population and some have now become polluted. Future
development to serve the large urban areas requires exploitation of distant
and hence more expensive catchment areas, and more costly groundwater
resources in rural areas. Health statistics show that water-borne and sani-
tation relaLed diseases such as typhoid, gastro-enteritis, intestinal
parasites and dysentery are prevalent nationwide. Schistosomiasis is wide-
spread in several regions. Reducing the incidence of these diseases, improv-
ing living conditions of the population generally, and economic development
all require substantial improvement in water supply and sanitation.
28.       Much has already been done, mainly during the last decade, to
improve water supply and more recently a start was made on improving sanitary
conditions. Following a major sector review in 1972, sector development
institutions were established, sector objectives and strategies were defined
2/   Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank group lending programs.



- 9 -
and master plans prepared. Physical development started with water supply and
sanitation projects in several provincial cities and towns and later in
Metropolitan Manila and in the rural areas. It is estimated that potable
water supply was made available to an additional three million people between
1972 and 1980, bringing the total number of people with piped water supply to
around 22 million, i.e. to about 45Z of the total population. Despite this
achievement, the proportion of the population unserved has remained at about
552 because of continued population growth.
29.       According to the 1980 census estimate, only about 562 of the total
population had access to water-borne sewerage, combined sewerage/drainage
systems, or septic tanks or pits for excreta disposal; the remainder of the
population had no facilities. In the rural areas only about 44Z of the popu-
lation had access to such facilities. In the urban areas the situation is
better with about 76% of the population having facilities. In Metropolitan
Manila, the 1980 census showed that about 17% of the population was served by
public sewerage or combined sewer/drainage systems, 34% by septic tanks but
the remaining 492 had pit latrines or no service at all. Since 1980 some
improvements have taken place in Metropolitan Manila and recently a start was
made on improving rural sanitation. Only six out of 700 provincial cities or
towns have a public sewerage system.
30.       The Government has been assisted in its water supply and sanitation
development efforts by several multilateral and bilateral agencies, notably
the Bank, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Under the impetus of the United Nations'
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade, the Government has given
and continues to give a high order of priority to water supply and sanitation
development but resources have been curtailed because of the economic situa-
tion in the Philippines. During 1979-81 about P 3.1 billion or 7.2% of public
investment went to the water supply and sanitation sector. In 1982-84 invest-
ment increased to P 5.4 billion or 8.6% of total public investment. Although
future investments were expected to total some P 6.7 billion in 1985-87 and
P 7.3 billion in 1988-90, investment plans for 1985 and 1986 have already been
substantially curtailed. The feasibility of investment plans for subsequent
years is being studied under an ongoing Public Investment Review conducted by
the Bank.
Sector Organization and Financing
31.       The institutional framework of the sector, and funding and cost
recovery policies are well established in the Philippines.  The National Water
Resources Council, which includes representatives of the various sector insti-
tutions, is responsible for formulating policies for the water supply sector.
The Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS), established in 1972,
is responsible for development and operation and maintenance of water supply
and sewerage systems in Metropolitan Manila. The LocaL Water Utilities
Administration (LWUA), established in 1973, is chartered to provide technical
and financial assistance to provincial cities and towns for water supply and
sanitation development. The operation and maintenance of provincial water
supply systems is the responsibility of locally established Water Districts
(WDs). The RuraL Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC), established in



- 10 -
1980, is responsible for water supply development in the rural areas. The
lower level systems provided in rural areas are operated and maintained
through local Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Associations (RWSAs). The
Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) assists RWDC with the drilling of
wells and the Ministry of Health (MOH) implements the rural sanitation program.
32.       Development in Metropolitan Manila is funded through self-generated
funds of MWSS, government equity contributions, and foreign loans. LWUA is
funded in the same way and lends these funds to WDs for system development;
the WDs are normally required to make an equity contribution to self-finance
part of the cost of development. The financially weaker WDs may receive some
government grants towards the cost of system development. RWDC also receives
government equity and foreign loans and uses these resources to finance water
supply development in the rural areas. The Government's general policy is to
develop systems on the basis of the communities' financial ability and
willingness to pay for them. Accordingly, individual house connections are
usually provided in the larger metropolitan and provincial urban areas, stand-
pipe systems in smaller settlements, and wells with hand pumps in the rural
areas. Government policy is that tariffs in Metropolitan Manila are to be set
at levels which should earn MWSS a financial rate of return of 8Z on its
revalued net fixed assets in operation on water supply operations and a posi-
tive rate of return on sewerage operations. For provincial cities and towns,
tariffs are to generate adequate levels of revenue to meet operation and main-
tenance costs and cover debt servicing costs or depreciation, whichever is
greater. In rural areas tariffs are expected to meet operation and main-
tenance costs and the capital costs of any distribution works; the Government
finances the capital costs of the source works.
Sectoral Issues and Constraints
33.       MWSS Investment Program.  Until recently, MWSS had an ambitious
long-term investment program aimed at providing adequate water to most of the
population of Metropolitan Manila by 1990, and a sustained expansion of the
sewerage system up to the year 2000. A major component of the water program
was to double the present production capacity of 2,500 MI/d through the
exploitation of a distant catchment area. This project, referred to as Manila
Water Supply III (MWS III), was scheduled for implementation in 1985-90.
However, the economic downturn starting in 1982-83, the resultant shortage of
local funds, and the high inflation which affected both ongoing and future
investments, reduced internal cash generation of MWSS and limited the
Government's ability to provide equity capital. These developments, and the
successive devaluations of the peso, necessitated a re-examination of MWSS'
investment priorities. A joint review undertaken by MWSS and the Bank in 1984
concluded that in the short- and medium-term, emphasis should be on: (a) the
completion of ongoing trunk transmission and distribution works (financed
under the Bank's Second Manila Water Supply Project (MWS II), Loan 1615-PH)
and further expansion of the distribution system to utilize the available
production capacity while at the same time significantly improving the popu-
lation coverage and MWSS' revenues; and (b) reducing water losses through
expediting the ADB-financed rehabilitation project (para. 35 below). A review
of the demand forecast indicated that additional production capacity would not
be needed until at least 1995, and thus the major expenditures for MWS III



- 11 -
could be deferred until about 1990. It was also concluded that the proposed
sewerage investments would have to be deferred indefinitely in view of
financial constraints, and of necessity, prolonging dependence on existing
drainage systems for carrying effluents. This investment review resulted in a
reduction in MWSS's medium-term (1985-89) investment program from over P 15
billion to about P 6 billion.
34.       The funding of even the reduced MWSS program will not be easy.  Its
previous tax-exempt status has been withdrawn and MWSS is now subiect to
duties and import taxes, a franchise tax of 52 on its gross billings, and an
income tax averaging about 33Z. Even so, MWSS is expected to finance about
30Z of its program from internal cash generation. This will require a
sustained effort in reducing non-revenue water, increasing sales rapidly
through expanding the number of connections, and regular tariff adjustments.
Slippage in any of these areas would entail a further downward revision in the
investment program (largely meaning further delaying MWS III) since it might
not be realistic for the Government to make contributions to MWSS' equity
beyond its present commitments in 1986 and 1987 (P 350 million and P 300
million respectively). To facilitate a close monitoring of MWSS' performance,
agreement was reached at negotiations that MWSS will prepare annually,
starting with 1986, an updated investment program and financing plan for the
following five years, furnish them to the Bank by September 30 and review the
program and plan with the Bank semi-annually.
35.       MWSS Operational Efficiency.  A large proportion (over 502) of water
produced does not generate revenues for MWSS. This results from two factors:
(a) physical losses comprising production losses, leaks in the distribution
system and water used in pressure testing and flushing newly constructed pipe-
lines, and (b) administrative losses, that is, water reaching the consumer but
not paid for because of under-registration of meters, incomplete customer
records, billing inefficiencies and illegal use. With financial assistance
from ADB, MWSS is implementing a program of rehabilitation works and reforms
to administrative procedures to reduce the high volume of non-revenue water
from more than 50% in 1985 to 25Z by 1993. MWSS has geared up to meet this
target but it is a difficult task; its achievement is critical to MWSS long-
term financial viability (para. 52).
36.       LWUA's Future.  At the provincial level LWUA, with financial and
technical support from USAID, has developed into a strong sector institution
and has played a significant role in the physical and institutional develop-
ment of WDs. The establishment of LWUA and the introduction of the Water
District concept was intended to make water supply an autonomous and finan-
cially viable activity. LWUA's charter provides that all municipalities with
populations in excess of 20,000 would be eligible to form WDs and thus qualify
for financial support through LWUA from the Government. To date only about
250 of the potential 700 WDs have been formed. As the remaining eligible
areas have smaller populations and a weak economic base, it is becoming
increasingly difficult to form financially viable WDs. In existing WDs,
actual revenue compared to targets falls short of expectations, largely
because of the longer than expected leadtime needed for institutional develop-
ment and achievement of financial viability. The Bank and LWUA are reviewing
LWUA's financial policies and practices, funding of WD development and related



- 12 -
cost recovery, and LWUA's roLe in assisting WDs with sanitation improvements.
The review will provide the means to reformulate LWUA's sector plans and res-
ponsibilities.
37.       RWDC's Role.  RuraL water supply and sanitation are currently being
improved through the Bank-assisted Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(Loan 2206-PH) which includes the construction or rehabilitation of about
10,000 wells and the provision of 750,000 pour-flush toilet units. This
program is being implemented by a number of Government agencies, with RWDC
responsible for water supply development in the larger rural settlements not
covered by LWUA and for the overall coordination of ruraL water supply
development. However, RWDC has not yet made significant progress on ration-
alizing and coordinating activities in the rural sector; coordination will be
increasingly needed as other aid agencies become more actively involved in
sector development. Similarly, substantial institutional development at the
local level is required before new commitments can be made in rural water
supply and sanitation. For this purpose, and the wider sector issues and
constraints described above, the Government and the Bank have agreed on the
updating of the earlier sector study in order to reappraise sector objectives,
deveLopment targets and institutional arrangements. The study has already
begun with a review of the operations of LWUA and RWDC.
Previous Bank Lending, Role and Lending Strategy
38.       Experience with Previous Bank Lending.  Except for an early loan to
finance the First Metropolican Manila Water Supply Project in 1964, the Bank's
involvement in the sector essentially started in 1977 with the First
Provincial Cities Water Supply Project (Loan 1415-PH, $23 million) to improve
water supply to five provincial towns outside Manila. Since then, four
additional loans have been made providing for the expansion of water supply
and sewerage in Metropolitan Manila (Loan 1615-PH, $88 million; and Loan 1814-
PH, $63 million), water supply in additional provincial towns (Loan 1710/
Credit 920-PH, for a total of $38 million), and a national program of rural
water supply and sanitation (Loan 2206-PH, $35.5 million). Initial implemen-
tation experience with all projects was generally good, except for start-up
delays in the earlier projects. However, since 1982 implementation of most of
the projects has been adversely affected by the general shortage of Government
counterpart funds. The projects in Metropolitan Manila also suffered particu-
larly from serious delays and cost over-runs because of the rapid inflation in
the last few years and the failure of several major contractors. Under the
Special Action Program, the Bank took one or more of the following measures to
assist individual projects: increasing the disbursement percentages,
establishment of special accounts, and reduction in the project scope. These
measures, combined with actions taken by the implementing agencies to
renegotiate and/or re-award contracts facing difficulties, have helped stabi-
lize the situation. It is expected that all of the projects will be completed
with delays of 2-3 years, and largely achieve their original objectives. The
proposed project has been designed keeping in view this past experience by
adopting a realistic implementation program, and by keeping Covernment
counterpart funds to a minimum. The First Provincial Cities Water Supply
Project was completed in 1983. The Project Completion Report, which is
currently under review by OED, noted satisfactory achievement of the project's



- 13 -
physical and institutional goals. However, it also highlighted the need to
re-examine LWUA's charter and financial policies (para. 36).
39.       Bank Role and Lending Strategy.  The Bank's role is to assist the
Government in the implementation of its continuing program in the sector,
which is well conceived, but for which it has very limited resources. In the
context of the country's currently constrained economic conditions, the Bank
expects to assist the Government in formulating sector priorities and invest-
ment programs. The Bank's past involvement in the sector has been instru-
mental in helping the Government to develop a well conceived institutional
framework and policies for the sector. Past experience has indicated the need
for certain revisions and adjustments. The Bank expects to continue to advise
the Government in these areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Formulation
40.       The proposed project arose out of a joint Bank/MWSS review of
investment priorities in the wake of the country's deteriorating financial
condition, and the subsequent decision to focus in the short- and medium-term
on completion of ongoing works and the expansion of the distribution networks
in order to maximize the use of existing excess production capacity
(para. 33). Some of these proposed immediate works were originally included
in MWS II financed by the Bank. The implementation of this project has
slipped by about two and a half years, initially because of delays in the
construction of water supply headworks (funded by ADB), and more recently the
financial failure of several large contractors (attributed to the country's
economic crisis), necessitating cancellation and re-award of several
contracts. The delays, combined with rapid local inflation, have resulted in
substantial cost increases, from about P 1.5 billion to P 3.0 billion.
However, successive devaluations of the peso maintained the costs expressed in
US dollars at roughly the same as estimated at appraisal ($201 million).
Under the Special Action Program, the Bank agreed in November 1983 to increase
the disbursement percentage for civil works from 40Z to 65%, which will result
in the full utilization of the proceeds of the Bank Loan by April 1986, and
leaving MWSS with a financing gap of about $20 million (out of a total value
of unfinished works of about $30 million). Completion of these immediate
works is of the highest priority in MWSS' program, since without them the
headworks and other related works already completed cannot be utilized. The
proposed project will finance this gap together with additional distribution
works of about twice this magnitude. The project was prepared by MWSS staff
and appraised in May 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from January
23 to 25, 1986. The Philippines delegation was led by H.E. Benjamin
Romualdez, the Philippine Ambassador to the United States. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5903-PH) is being distributed separately. A supplemen-
tary project data sheet, including a summary of special conditions, is
attached as Annex III.



- 14 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Project Objectives
41.       The short-term objective of Bank involvement is to assist MWSS to
optimize the utilization of existing infrastructure and thus significantly
improve its level of internal cash generation and financial performance. The
longer-term objective is to preserve and strengthen MWSS' institutional deve-
lopment and financial position to achieve its longer-term sector development
objectives. The Bank's involvement is particularly important during the
currently constrained economic conditions.
42.       One of the means of achieving the above objectives is the proposed
project.  Specifically, the project would improve water supply in the MWSS
service area through:  (a) the full utilization of the additional water
production and distribution facilities made available under MWS II (b) exten-
sion of the distribution system to unserved areas and infiLling of the MWSS
distribution network; and (c) the provision of service connections and public
standpipes, thus increasing water sales and revenues. The proposed project
also includes institutional support to improve efficiency in implementation,
operation and financial administration. Finally, the project would provide
water to many unserved low-income areas, and in this way improve living
conditions for the urban poor.
The Project Area and Water Demand and Supply
43.       The MWSS service area covers the whole of Metropolitan Manila, as
well as the city of Cavite and 10 other municipalities contiguous to the
metropolitan area; in total it covers about 150,000 ha and has a population
estimated at about 7 million in 1984. Population growth in the metropolitan
areas alone was about 4.5% per year in the 1970s, and is now estimated at
about 3Z per year. Total water consumption from all sources in Metropolitan
Manila in 1985 is estimated at about 2,000 Ml/d. Of this, MWSS supplies 1,400
Mlld with the remaining coming from private groundwater supplies. About 65%
of the t-ital consumption is for domestic purposes and 35% for commercial and
industrial purposes. It is estimated that about 70% of the Metropolitan
Manila population obtains water directly or indirectLy from the public water
supply system. About 80% of the domestic but only about 27% of the industrial
consumption is supplied by MWSS. The unserved consumers who rely on ground-
water would be particularly targetted to arrest the continuing deterioration
of the already over-exploited acquifers. In 1981 the groundwater level
throughout most of Metropolitan Manila was 50 m to 200 m below sea level,
resulting in extensive saline intrusion. A draft legislation has been
prepared to improve control over groundwater extraction in an attempt to
conserve this source. The proposed legislation would be further processed
when MWSS is able to offer alternative forms of s-.pply to the affected
areas.
44.       MWSS supplies of 1,400 Ml/d in 1985 were met, after water losses,
from a total production of about 2,100 Ml/d. Compared with MWSS' total pro-
duction capacity of about 2,600 Ml/d, this leaves an excess production
capacity of about 500 Ml/d. Projections of future demand, based on the
estimate of population and income growth, per capita consumption levels (in
1985, 175 1/cd with a range of 217 1/cd for people with individual house



- 15-
connnections and 50 I/cd for the low-income population in "blighted areas"),
price and income elasticities of demand, and a reduction in non-revenue water
indicate that the current MWSS production capacity should be sufficient until
about 1995. Total demand will by that time have grown to about 3,000 Ml/d.
With KWSS supplying about 2,300 MI/d from existing facilities, about 700 Ml/d
would still be required from groundwater sources. The Metropolitan Manila
area will continue to depend heavily on groundwater until major new surface
water sources are developed.
Project Description
45.       The project has the following main components:  (a) completion of
the ongoing works started under MWS II, including construction of about 3 km
of bulk water supply mains and construction of about 17 km of primary and
secondary networks, as well as tertiary networks, and installation of about
100,000 metered house service connections; (b) construction of about 8 km of
additional bulk water supply mains; {c) connection of about 72 subdivisions to
the distribution network, including installation of meters and service
connections to serve about 15,600 households; (d) infilling of about 24 areas
with secondary and tertiary distribution pipelines including installation of
meters and service connections to serve about 13,500 households; (e) provision
of tertiary pipelines, yard connections and public standpipes in about 160
low-income areas to serve about 70,000 poor households; (f) acquisition of
about 100,000 domestic, industrial and commercial water meters;
(g) improvements to the distribution system through the installation of
control valves; (h) drilling and equipping about 5 deep wells including pumps,
and storage reservoirs; (i) future project preparation including updating of
engineering and finance studies needed for the future MWS III and micro-
seismic monitoring at the future Laiban dam site; and (j) institutional
support and development including provision of consulting services to assist
MWSS with project implementation, supervision of an integrated action program
to achieve service connection targets, and training of staff to improve
operational efficiency and meter maintenance practices. It would also include
acquisition of about 110 vehicles (mainly utility trucks and motorcycles) for
project implementation and supervision to improve operational performance;
purchase of computer equipment and services to upgrade customer records,
billing, accounting and engineering; and undertaking aerial photography to
verify and improve customer records, and assist in the detection of illegal
connections and thus improve billing efficiency.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total project cost, including interest during construction (IDC)
of about P 222 million ($11 million) and physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at about P 1,947 million ($96.3 million). Excluding IDC, the total
cost would be about P 1,726 million ($85.3 million) of which P 806 million
($40.0 million) or about 47Z would be the foreign exchange component. Import
duties and taxes estimated at about $4.3 million equivalent are included in
the aggregate cost estimate. Cost estimates are based on (a) contractors' bid
prices for contracts already awarded by KWSS to complete the major trunk mains
and associated works under MWS II; (b) a study of bids received in early 1985
for similar civil works; (c) latest quotations by domestic and international



- 16 -
goods suppliers who have recently submitted bids for similar kinds of equip-
ment and vehicles; and (d) prices under technical assistance contracts
executed in 1984 and 1985. Costs for consuLtant services estimated to total
about $728,000 equivalent include 39 man-months of internationally-recruited
consultants and 100 man-months of local consultant services. All costs are
expressed in end-1985 prices. The total IDC was computed on the basis of
interest and other charges payable to the Bank during the implementation
period. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% for works with
completed detailed engineering and 15Z for other works. Price increases are
assumed to be 15% in 1986, 10% in 1987-88 and 8% thereafter for domestic
costs; and 7.0% in 1986-87, and about 7.5% per year thereafter for foreign
costs. It is estimated that exchange rate adjustments would, on the average,
maintain "purchasing power parity" during the project implementation period.
Price contingencies over the project period are equal to $7.9 million or about
10% of the base costs plus physical contingencies of new works. Contingencies
for the ongoing works are included in the contracts as awarded.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $69 milLion would be to the Government for
20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The loan would be re-lent to MWSS on the same terms and conditions
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) acceptable to the Bank; MWSS would
carry the foreign exchange risk. The execution of the SLA would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness. The proposed loan would finance 75% of the total
project cost (including IDC but excluding taxes and duties), and would cover
foreign exchange cost of $48 million and about 46Z of local costs. MWSS will
contribute the remaining 25% of total project costs from corporate funds. The
contribution from MWSS corporate funds is reasonable given the level of the
debt servicing commitments, the new income, other taxes payable and the size
of the investment program. To support MWSS' total investment program,
including the proposed project, Government contributions of about P 350
million in 1986, and P 300 million in 1987 will be required. During negotia-
tions the Government confirmed that 85% of the 1986 equity contribution has
already been paid and that the request for 1987 has been agreed in principle
and included in the investment plan. It is expected that beyond 1987, MWSS
will be able to finance its investment program from internal resources and
borrowings.
Implementation
48.       The project is expected to be implemented over a 5 year period, fror.
January 1986 to December 1990. Earlier projects financed by the Bank have
been handled by the Special Projects Office (SPO) established within MWSS tc
manage all foreign-assisted projects. It was recently decided to diss3lve SPO
following the completion of the ongoing works. Accordingly new works under
the project will be handled by the relevant Departments, i.e-, Engineering for
design, Construction for contract supervision and administration, Customer
Services for the connection program, and Finance for project accounting. The
activities undertaken by the separate Departments will be coordinated by the
Senior Deputy Administrator, who formerly headed SPO. He will be assisted by
consuLtants to advise on and monitor performance of the important water
distribution and rehabilitation programs. Construction activities will be
undertaken by prequalified contractors, and house connections will be made by



- 17 -
accredited plumbing contractors and in-house teams. MWSS already has trained
and experienced teams but additional staff are being recruited and trained to
support the expanding program. These implementation arrangements are
satisfactory. The project is in an advanced stage of preparation.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENTS /a
($ million)
Project element                          ICB        LCB       Other      Total
Civil Works
Completion of ongoing works          29.5         -         -         29.5
(19.6)       -          -        (19.6)
New water distribution work;          5.5       37.4        -         42.9
(3.7)    (24.9)        -        (28.6)
Equipment and Vehicles                   7.0        3.2        -         10.2
(7.0)     (3.1)        -        (10.1)
Technical Assistance
Consultants                            -          -        2.5         2.5
-         -        (2.5)       (2.5)
Training                               -          -        0.2         0.2
-         -        (0.2)       (0.2)
TOTAL                           42.0      40.6        2.7        85.3
(30.3)    (28.0)      (2.7)      (61.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
50.       The estimated total value of civil works under the project is about
$72.4 million which includes contracts valued at about $29.5 million already
started under MWS II and previously awarded under international competitive
bidding (ICB). Civil works for a major bulk water supply mains estimated to
cost about $5.5 million will be awarded under ICB. Additional civil works for
minor water distribution works, totalling about $37.4 million, involve about
100 small contracts varying in cost from $5,000 to $600,000 equivalent.
Scattered through Metropolitan Manila and to be executed over a five-year
period, these contracts are not likely to attract foreign bidders and will
therefore be awarded to prequalified contractors, through local competitive
bidding (LCB) in accordance with MWSS' procedures which have been discussed
and are satisfactory to the Bank. LCB does not preclude foreign firms from
bidding. Contracts for goods (water meters, vehicles, and computer equipment)
totalling about $7.0 million equivalent will be procured Dy ICB in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty whichever is less.



- 18 -
Items of goods will be grouped by category in appropriate bidding packages,
costing not less than $500,000 each for water meters, and $300,000 each for
vehicles and computer equipment. Minor items o. equipment not exceeding
$200,000 each and up to an aggregate amount of $3 million, will be procured
through LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Goods contracts costing less
than $15,000 each and totalling not more than $200,000, may be procured by
prudent local shopping. Technical assistance will be provided by Consultants
hired in accordance with Bank guidelines.
51.       Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 100%
of the CIF cost of directly imported goods; or 10OX of ex-factory costs of
locally manufactured goods; or 65% of the cost of imported goods procured
locally; (b) 70% of expenditures on civil works contracts; (c) 100% of the
expenditures on technical assistance and training; and (d) 100l of interest
and other charges payable to the Bank up to May 14, 1990. Disbursements under
minor contracts for civil works, goods and for training services (costing less
than $25,000 equivalent each) will be made against statements of expenditure
based on actual payments to the supplier. Supporting documents for such
expenditures will be retained by MWSS and made available to Bank missions for
inspection. To expedite loan disbursements, a Special Account of $6 milLion,
corresponding to four months estimated maximum disbursement, will be esta-
blished. Disbursement is expected to be completed in 5½ years rather than the
8 years country disbursement profile for the urban/water sector because the
project is a continuation of, and is complementary to, the earlier MWS II
project started in 1978. Abouc 35Z of the project cost is accounted for by
contracts which were awarded under MWS II and are scheduled for completion in
early 1987. The closing date for the loan would be December 31, 1991.
Operations and Maintenance
52.       MWSS operates and maintains the water production and treatment
facilities to good standards. However, in the past, the maintenance of the
distribution system, much of which is quite old, was inadequate. Firstly,
most of MWSS' efforts were devoted to the implementation of MWS II and the
Sewerage and Sanitation Projects. Secondly, due to the age of part of the
distribution system, the increasing water pressure from new source works
completed recently under MWS II resulted in more leaks developing. In the
last two years, however, there has been a major shift in emphasis starting
with the ADB-financed Rehabilitation Project which comprises an accelerated
program of repair and replacement of the oid distribution network. In
addition, institutional measures are included in the RehabiLitation Project to
strengthen MWSS' procedures and maintenance organization. Specifically, the
distribution network has been divided into about 120 zones with prioritization
for rehabilitation based on: (a) zones with known above-average water losses;
(b) densely populated zones with high probabilities of illegal connections;
and (c) those which have not received any or Little attention under earlier
programs. ControL over rehabilitated areas will be achieved through the
placement of bulk meters in individual zones. This will provide the means for
comparing water delivered with that billed in each zone, and hence monitor
water-loss trends. In addition, procedures will be reviewed and staff trained
to improve field inspections and leak repair methods. During the past year,
progress on the Rehabilitation Project has lagged, however MIWSS has submitted



- 19 -
to the Bank an Action Program (already agreed with ADB) for its implementa-
tion. This program was reviewed at negotiations and agreement was reached to
implement it in accordance with an agreed time schedule and to review progress
annually against the agreed targets under the program.
Training
53.            MWSS has a well established staff training program.  Its Human
Resources Development Division (HRDD) has a staff of 24 which, because of the
increasing importance of this function, is expected to be increased. It also
uses outside trainers as the need arises. HRDD is one of the most successful
sector training centers in the region. Through successive lending operations
to MWSS, the Bank has assisted substantially in creating and developing a
strong, versatile, and well equipped Training Division. A specially designed
Training Center has been established to provide practical training covering
basic and more advanced skills in water supply and sewerage operations. Over
the past few years, training priority has been given to the need for addi-
tional operational staff and HRDD has developed a five-year training program
covering the period 1984-1988. The 1984 program was substantially achieved in
terms of the range of courses offered and persons trained.
Financial Aspects
54.       The profitability of MWSS has steadily improved since 1978. From a
low of about 4% in 1980, the financial rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets in operation, after a fourfold increase in these operating assets,
reached about 6% in 1984. These results are due to significant revenue
efforts by MWSS in increasing the average revenue per cubic meter of water
sold. Consequently the contribution to its investment program from internal
cash generation, after debt servicing, increased from about P 80 million in
1978 to about P 400 million in 1984. At the same time, the annual investment
in water supply and sewerage system development also increased substantially
from a modest P 90 million in 1978 to P 2,600 million in 1984.
55.       These efforts by MWSS did however not succeed in achieving a rate of
return for its water supply operations of 8X on revalued net fixed assets in
operation, as agreed under MWS II. The main reason for this was the delay in
completing the transmission works under this project, and in providing the
additional service connections.  Consequently, MWSS suffered from significant
under-utilized production capacity. MWSS' financial performance, particularly
internal cash generation, has also been severely affected by successive deval-
uations of the peso since KWSS carries the exchange risk on its foreign
loans. As a result, MWSS's debt servicing costs increased by about 1502. In
response to the cost increases, the Government has already approved a number
of successive monthly tariff increases. Because of time lags these have not
yet fully compensated for the most recent devaluation. It appears, however,
that under the current economic conditions, in which the real level of house-
hold and most business incomes have been declining, MWSS and the Government
have made a reasonable effort to increase revenues and control costs. In
order to ease the tight cash flow constraints which MWSS is expected to
experience during the early years of project implementation, it was agreed
that the project would include financing of IDC (para. 46).



- 20 -
56.       A financial projection of MWSS' operations shows that an 8% rate of
return could be reached by about 1988. This is based on an increase in tar-
iffs of about 40%, already approved for implementation during 1985 and 1986,
and further increases beyond 1986 in line with the growth in household
incomes. It also assumes a reduction in physical water losses from 32% to
25X, and of administrative losses from 22Z to 15Z. With successive tariff
increases, the average water tariff by 1990 of about P 7.20/cu m would be
close to the average marginal cost of water of about P 7.00/cu m. Some of the
future average tariff and revenue increases could be achieved through adjust-
ments in the tariff structure.   At present, water consumption up to 30 cu m
per connection per month is charged at subsidized block rates. Consumption in
excess of the basic minimum should, where possible, be paid for at the econ-
omic cost of water production. Because of the need to maximize internal cash
generation to maintain its development program and financial viability agree-
ment was reached at negotiations that MWSS will:  (a) achieve an annual rate
of return on average current net value of fixed assets used in its water
supply and sewerage operations of not less than 6% in 1986, 7X in 1987, and 8%
per year from 1988 onwards, (b) not incur any long-term debt unless a debt
servicing ratio of not less than 1.5 can be maintained; and (c) for the
purpose of (a) above MWSS will carry out annual reviews of the level and
structure of its water supply and sewerage tariffs and other charges, furnish
such reviews before June 30 to the Bank for its comment, and implement any
recommendations agreed in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the
Bank. The first such review, for 1986, shall specifically address the water
and sewerage tariff structure. The projected level of financial performance
will ensure that beyond 1987, MWSS will be fully self-sufficient and able to
finance its future investment program from internal cash generation and
borrowing. Changes to MWSS' liability for taxes, recently instituted (para.
34), are incorporated in the financial projections. Annual updates of MWSS'
investment program and financing plan will be prepared by MWSS and reviewed by
the Bank semi-annually (para. 34).  To accommodate its expanding financial
structure, and hence permit increased capitalization, MWSS has obtained an
amendment to its Charter. The Charter amendment increasing MWSS capitaliz-
ation from P 3 billion to P 8 bilLion was reviewed at negotiations and found
appro-riate.
Billing and ColLection
57.       A considerable proportion of water consumed, estimated to be as high
as about a quarter of total production, is not charged to consumers. This is
in addition to about 30% physical losses, which covers water produced but not
reaching the consumer, due to leaks. These problems are being addressed with
ADB assistance (para. 52). MWSS also included in its recent reorganization
the strengthening of the Customer Services Department and Branch Offices to
cope with the increase in billing and collection over the next five years.
New billing and collecting procedures have aLready been prepared and others
dealing with meter reading are under preparation. The proposed project will
assist in this effort through financing an aerial survey which will form the
basis for a comprehensive survey of illegal connections. In addition, the
improvement in speed and accuracy of billing will be facilitated through the
purchase of computer equipment included in the project. The equipment
provided for under the project, including vehicles and computers, will also



- 21 -
help MWSS to better control Accounts Receivable, improve general financial
administration, and handle the almost doubling of service connections and
hence billings over the next five years. Accounts Receivable stand at about
six months sales which is excessive. A large proportion, about 302 of the
total, is due from national government agencies and local governments. MWSS
will make more intensive use of the interagency clearing office for the
settlement of these overdue accounts to reduce the level of Accounts
ReceivabLe, and will continue its efforts to write off bad debts. During
negotiations agreement was reached that MWSS will ensure that its Accounts
Receivable do not exceed the equivalent of the immediately preceding four
months billing, and will take all necessary actions to write off its uncollec-
table Accounts Receivable in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank.
The Government has also agreed to take all necessary measures to ensure that
charges due to MWSS be settled by the national Government agencies and local
governments in accordance with an agreed Action Plan.
Accounts and Audit, and Reporting
58.       MWSS' accounting procedures are satisfactory.  Financial statements
up to and incLuding 1984 have been satisfactorily audited by the Commission on
Audit. In addition to its normal financial accounting records, MWSS will
maintain project accounts to separately record project expenditures for review
by the Bank. MWSS' Annual Financial Statements, Project Account and Special
Account to be established for the proposed project and Statements of Expendi-
ture, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
financial statements, together with the Auditor's Report, would be made avail-
able to the Bank within six months after the end of each financial year. MWSS
would submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the project. Adequate
provision for bad debts would be allowed, starting with the fiscal year 1986.
Project Benefits
59.       The continuing program of water supply development in Metropolitan
Manila will, during the implementation period 1986-90, improve service to
about 2.3 million people. Specifically, the proposed project will provide
access to piped water supply for 1.6 milLion people not previously served by
MWSS. The project will also contribute to arresting the growth of over-
pumpage of the rapidly depleting groundwater (para. 43). In financial terms
the project will significantly contribute to improving the level of internally
generated funds which would enable MWSS to meet its increasing debt servicing
costs, its tax liability, and to self-finance a larger share of its fucure
investment program. The water will be affordable to all segments of the
population including the urban poor. The water charge for families at the
lowest 20th percentile of household income distribution is estimated to
average about 2.5% of their income; this is within the range considered
affordable for low income households. It is estimated that about 20Z of the
additional water distributed, and proportionately the same share of the
project cost, will benefit the urban poor. Through progressive tariff
increases water would be priced by 1990 at marginal cost. The Financial
Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) of the project amounts to about 40%. It takes
into account the incremental operating revenues and costs and the capital
costs of the project. A sensitivity test assuming a reduction of 10% in



- 22 -
estimated benefits and a 101 increase in estimated operating and capital costs
shows that under these adverse conditions the FIRR would amount to about 26%.
Environmental Impact
60.       The project would improve health and environmental conditions
through the provision of potable water for drinking, food preparation and
washing. More significantly it includes the first initiatives to reduce the
growth in the usage of groundwater and hence attempt to protect against fur-
ther excessive groundwater depletion of the aquifer in the Metropolitan Manila
area. The distribution of additional water in the future and the slowdown in
development of sewerage and sanitation facilities will make additional demands
on existing sewerage, sanitation and drainage facilities. While this will not
necessarily lead to an immediate deterioration in environmental conditions,
further improvements in sewerage and sanitation should be a priority when
economic conditions improve.
Risks
61.       There are no unusual risks associated with this project.  The major
challenges to MWSS are to meet the water connection and water loss reduction
targets and thus generate more water revenues. These challenges are being
faced through a large number of initiatives by MWSS, involving many different
departments and numerous small contractors. The management and coordination
of these many activities, in what must be regarded as the two most difficult
tasks in water supply development, will preoccupy MWSS' management. However,
through the recent reorganization which included a strengthening of the upper
levels of management, decentralization of operations and a continuing staff
training program, MWSS has taken the appropriate steps to minimize the risks
associated with the successful implementation of the proposed project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
March 19, 1986
Washington, D.C.



.    -  23  -                                                    ANE   I
TsA4 LIt14                                        PaCK      Page  1 of 6
PHILErWS               - SOCIAL NDICATORS DATA SMUT
VhIILIWZMES9                        .uuINEUCz CAoggp (mzGiTm  A-vffm-c1S3  a.
:OST                     (MOS T LCNT C STLMATK) lb
.ICWT       M~~IDDL& IfinD          m4IO0LE INCUS
1O9! 197n-lb psj1T3UI-b           ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. MEtIc&I CAR
Am& (1AW& S. UG
TOTAL.                            300.        10.0        NO.0
ACIZOILTUAL                        93.5       1a.o       129.0
O33 CA  (Uf                                        7. ,*0.0                   1011.1                   1373.9
cMLOcaAS Of OIL 3OIfVALMn         109.0       231.0      231.0              3i0.                     "93.
E L m INUM
POeUsTION.HI3431  (T130SA*00)   27394.0    36148.0    52035.0
-*  MIAT  TS (C Of lOw             30.3        12.,        20.7              35.9                     *1.7
101NATION PURJECTIU
POPIAIIOU 1s Tam 20 (sIw)                                73.3
STATIOTMAR 100ug10  (PILL)                              120.0
-ObOIAUIT   !iUItl3                                       1.9
MOILITIOU amITY
FIR SQ. KM.                      91.3       122.3       173.5             30.9                      48.0
PEE SQ. KM. ACET. LAWS          273.1       33.3         9.3             1MA1.2                     91.1
IOPEATzonU Am ST&cTU  (Z)
0-14 TR5                         44.6       43.4        41.0              33.2                    32.3
13-54 TRS                        52.3        31.J       35.0               57.7                     57.1
635 An060                          3.0        2.          2l.               31J                      4.2
Powm.AlbOu UEUIE SATE CZ)
TaL                                3.0        2.0         2.7               2.3                      2.4
URN"                               4.1        2.3         3a                4.1                      3.
CMIDZ 51   3M  C "a TOa0sl         46.7        ".0         31.0              10.1                     30.9
ChIDE Dun  r2  (IF  TOlM)           14.6        9.3         0.7               9.4                      3.0
C70# IUICTtOU 3013                   3.         3.1         2.0               1.9                      2.0
FAM* Y PTJMU
&ccIPT* AmAL (l)                   ..       191.7       375.0 le
uSnS CZ IoFamARE     z WQI         ..        15.0 i      48.0                .3                     43:.3
oM          - 
10K OF F00M  1l. P  CAPTA
(19o9-71-100)                      102.0      101.0       2I1.0             124.4                    1094
MM CAPITA SULYT WF
CALDRIES cZ Or Eu13UUU1)         33.0       101.0       120.0             115.7                    113.2
*01US (GRACMS PE DAY)            41.0        46.0        54.0              60.3           H9.4
OF W10 AtNDUL AM  ML             17.0       20.0        21.0 _.           14.1                     34.2
CILUD (aES 1-I) WAQ1 MAnE           12.9        9.1         4.0           -   7.2           *a
L1  E XICT. AT 61TR (1335)          2.8       59.0        ".4               60.6                    604.
A1*111  OSTr. 3tATC (MU 2101US)    106.0       75.0        49.0              64.9                     59.7
ACCss TO SAFE WTER (SPW)
TOTAL                             ..         3.0         51.0 tc           46.0                     65.3
URN                                ..         ..        46.0 377            7.4                     76.5
NUWAL                             ..          ..         43. 7ir           37.1                     44.2
ACCESS TO UC8ITA DISPOSAL
CI OF PoIuLATIO.)
TOTAL                                        37.0        72.0 tc           50.1                     56.3
11Am                               ..         ..          O7               32.J                     71.4
AL                              ..         ..         67.o 7            44.7                     23.5
POPUIATU PIER  ItCIAI           64940.0      9100.0      7970.0 Ic         7731.7                   1909.7
PO. PER 8U35C M1SO0              1440.0 it  3390.0        00. 77           2464.3                    803.2
POP. PIEOSFETAL MED
TOTAL                           1210.0       20.0       360.5 LA         1112.1                    362.0
grim                             340.0      390.0                         631.4                    422.0
MAL                               ..          ..          ..             259.9                    271t.7
ADIsSoUs PIE AErTAL sre              *         30.0         ..               41.1                     27.3
ARx  SE OF or IUsSe
TOTAL                              5.3        3.9
1138*5                            ..          6.2
3034L                             ..          ...
AWnuME NO. o0  asdiNmW
TOTAL                              ..         2.3
UnamA                             ..          2.1
IEL                                ..         2.4          ....
PEEWAM  OF    LDM3 WrT E.ZC.
TlTAL                             16.3       22.7        34.0 lb
O311                               ..           .         2. 7i
L                                  ..         6.7        LO.O.



AMEX I
24 -                                                 Page 2 of 6
T A O L t 1A
mm               NIUDLE NCOIU           NIUS1TtA}  
lltlUl~ML  t rt U  rSOe7-m
1§  itii unI aLk        AStA h PACtItC         LAT. AlMZCA * CAR
ADJUSUD Ur LUW  RsT3
P,PAI  WM                        n.o         ao.o       10S.o              100.7 01.
I8.                    91.0         ..        10.0              104.4                    L10.5
FEAL.                  93.0         ..       105.0               97.2                    104.0
AM. TOTAL                       2a.0 o.o                 ".o                41.8                     44.2
VALE                   23.0         ..        02.0               50.0                     42.1
1 .                    35.0         ..        0.0                 4".9
VOCA     . ( 0C a1008m14)           14.3        3.9         3.9               1.                       13.3
7WI*                              20.0       29.0        32.0               30.4                     29.9
7Z.0       23.0        34.0               22.2                     10.7
1*3130R C*IS/TUSAM VW                3.2        7.0        10.2               IC.1                     40.0
3OSO  h03?WfOUOS*    POP            21.9       40.7        43.0              172.9                    320.3
tV                   FM              1.4       10.9        24.0               33.5                    112.4
ImAu ("*  IAL
13130?) cI~LZ0
1  T3     IOIULATOU                17.7       13.0        33.9               03.3                     01.L
C t1A *AL AZJ*C3/ChIXtA             0.0 /1      ..          7.4                3.4                      2.
OTiL UNK 10   (0S0)              10715.0    13477.0    19150.0
FEIUI (lr ?)                      34.2       33.1        32.2               33.0                     23.6
*CICULS3 CI3wO                    01.0       53.0       4U.0                 2.2                     31J4
Dllsl  CMaCm)                     13.0        10.0       17.0 /1            17.9                     24.3
PAITIcxpaZ amU (P1803x0
TOTAL                             39.0      32.0         30.8               20.9                     33.5
Has                               $2.2       40.0        43.4               30.8                     51.3
rUILS                             27.4       24.4        23.9               20.0                     13.9
iMONIC MEFUOCK  RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.2                1.1                      1.3
_ -
vinamr of 1UvAUs DIM
o nn D 
IM? 32 01 UOSOLD                 30.1       25.1
Z TW    z0x or F0u U              56.3       34.0         ..4
LUlS? 201 0        .D3           4.2         5.2         ..                 0.4
LOU= 403 0   SOFLfl               12.0        14.2        ..                13.5
Lam  can m-ai
LVL (08 -  CAPTA)
U1.                                ..          ..        o0.0 t              .. IC0.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       195.0 rc           131.9                    1S.3
ESIDIAUO 311129  1090? ZE
LVEL (U56 M3 CATA)
U4803                              ..          ..       200.0 tc           177.3                    519.0
303*1..                                        ..       200.0               0 164.7                 359.7
3S3Dr    PM. NXW AMOLwn
10933!! ICKLEL CZ)
ILU                                ..          ..        32.0 le            23.5
NL.1                               ..41.07;W                                37.0
MT0 AV*ZLAM*
..IOS *AIIIAL
/a 7*. gras  worm" for each Indicater are populatiaa.u.lhta  arftl.atic u_ a. CAvrap of ec nrrut
amg the Im rcatora depend. on availabilty of data and le not uUfter_
Wines/ahbaLna,aotudp 'Data for 1OW' rotor to am  yer b.c.em 1939 ad 1961; 'Data for 1970 be
1909 end 1971; an  data fer "lb.  aest IecmlstaI   en1    and 1903.
Le   1910  /d 1900: /a 1977; /t 1902; L  1970: /b 1l9   lI 1953.
JUNE 190



ANNEX I
-25 -                                      Page 3 of 6
DEFINIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note. Althoughthedoauedt a nfroma ources.genrallyjudgedthemotoauthrtativeandrdlab  it shouldasoenotedthat theymaynotbeitenitonwaly
comparable because o the tack of standardized drintimi and ncepnts used by different countnes in collcting it dala. The data ame. nonethekls useful to
dscnbe orders of magittude. indicate trends. and characteriz cerain major dfiffrenes between counties.
The refernce groups re stIIIhe same countr group of the subject country and ti   country group with somew  htger favge cie than thc country
groupofthesubjecounty leacept for -Hih IncomeOlt Exporters groap where -Mddld Income ornh Afic and Mddje Eat is chosen because of ronger
socto-cultural alllnutues). In the reference goup data the averag are populauon weghted antumeuc mems for each iandiator and shown only when majority
of the countries n a woup ha data for that indicator. Since the coverage ofcountrie among the indiators depends on ihe avaulabibly ofdata and is no uniform
caution must be esried in eatung averps of one andicator to another Thces averags are only usful in comparng the value of one indcator at a tisme amog
the country and rcfremnce groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.l)                                             Crude Birth Rame (per :ousadI-Nuumber of live biths im the vear
Total-Total surface area comprsing land area and inland waters     per thousand of mid-year populaton: 1960. 1970. and 1983 duta.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crude Death Rate (per *sktsrad)-Number of deaths in the year
Agicuhnral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporanly or        per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Cres Reproduion Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproducuve penod if she experiences
present age-specifie fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current            n 1960. 1970. and 1983
market prices, cakulated bv same conversion method as World         F       J'Aanhtg-Accepmors, Enal (thousandzi-Annual num-
8ank-Atlas (1981483 basis): 1983 data,                             ber of aceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nutional
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commerctil primary encrgy (coal and lignite.         Fani4- Plaaniult-Users (percet ofma-e  waua-Thc percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dee-     tage of marned women nf child-beanng age who are practicing or
tnettyl in kilograms of oil equi,alent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception Women
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. Asthugh for
some countnes contracepitve usage is measured for .ther age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups
Total Pupamlion, Mid-Yrr (rrhaassds)-As of July 1 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRITlON
and 1983 data.
Ppaao. (epezren of trom-Ratio of urban to total               InfdfedfF oed ure erwn PerCcpiatal9697-l= 100)-Index of per
Urban Ppui            pec      o  oa-Rioouratotal                  capita annua: production of all food commoditices Producttisri
population: different definitions of urban areas ma> affect compar-  excludes anumal feed and seed for agrculture. Food commodities
ability ofdata among countnes. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data             include prmarv commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supri
Pupafation Prijecosti                                              which are edible and contain nutnents te-n coffee and tez are
Population in vear 200-The projection of population for 2000.      excludedL. the) compnse cereals. root crops. pubes. oil xeds.
made for each economy separately Starting with information on       vrgetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beet%. It-esitck, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  lucts Aggregate produetton ot each countr    ased
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer pnrc weights. 9t61-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 Per Capita Supply ef Craries (percent of requremears) -Comput-
Ssraionarv populauon-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taIty rates have not changed over a long penod. while age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies compnse domestic pruduc-
ferility rates have simultancously remained at replacement level   tion. imports less export;. and changes in stock  Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude Animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ra;:. the age structure Is also    food processming. and losses in distribunon. Requirements were
constant, and the grovth raze is zero. The stationan population    estimated by FAO based on ohystological needs ibr nornal .ic II-
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charactenstics of  and health considenng ensrionmental temperature. bods "eights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ofdecline of fertilit%  age and sex distnbution of population. and allow ,ing M percent fo;r
rate to replacement level                                          waste at household le-el. 1Q61. 1970 and 1982 data
Population .Aftonentunr-Is the tendency for population grow th to  Per Capita Supply of Prorein (gramn per day;-- Protein content of'
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day Net suppl *of food s defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established b% USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in th year r is measured as    provide for minimum allowarnces of sO grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protemin of which It) grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein These standards arc loer than thoe t.'
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protcin dS an
Popalation Denrsiy                                                 average for the world. proposed bh F40 in the Third World Fo.d
Per sq.knt-Mid-year population per square kilometer I 00 hec-      Suppiv. 1961. 197 t and 1Q82 dima
rarest of total area, 1960. 1970. and 19t3 data.                   Per Capiza Protein Suppl F-rom 4ninualand Pube  Protei 'uppl%
Per sq/kmn. akgrwcul,wral land--Compuled as above for anricultural  of food dented from anim.tk .ini pukec i mn.'m- pcr     'ljs.h:
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 Jata                                1970 and 14-' data
Populaien Age Srrucrare rpercenrj-Children tO-14 vearsi. work-     Child tages l-4i Death Rate tper rhostandl  '-imber ft dcath' it
ingage(15-64yearsi.andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentage          children aged I-4 years per thousand children in the  irme aee
of mid-year population: !960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year For mist deseloping countries data deru'ed
from life tables. 1960. 19-0 and 1981 data
Population Growrh Rate (percentrj-rorai-- Annual growth rates of
toal mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Popultion Growth Rate (percet r-urbos- Annual growth rates         Life Expectancy at Birth (years,- Number oi %car- a ncwhorn
of urban population for 1°50-60. 1960-'O. and 1970-13 data.       infant would ttc if prevading patterns of mortalt16 florT .ll people



-26-                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the ame throughout its life;  PupIl-reacher Reaio - primary, and zecodary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1993 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
Irgfam MataMt Rate (pa thkuad)-Number of infants who die       teachers in the corresponding levcls.
before reaching oan year of age per thousand Live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 19833  u                                   CONSLMPTION
CeasJ t 5af  WatW  (per fOmaC Of pOPOhatla-tifa, urbn, and     Pauaar Cars (par thouad poprdarlonj-Pasenger cars com-
rwi-Number of people (total, urba  and rural) with reasonable   prise motor can seating less than eight persons. cxcludes ambul-
aces to safe water supply (includa teted surface waters or      ances. hearses and mdlitary vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such u that from protected  Rods Ricewar, (per thousand populadton-All types of receivers
borehol, spring and sniary wels) as percentag  of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
ave populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed remcevers in countries and in years when
lcated not more than 200 mets from a house may be consdered    registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
as being within reaonable acces of that house. In rural tCe5s  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable aat  would imply that the housewife or membLrs of the
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  tV Reau,a,s (perthoasladpoppukdonj-TV receives for broadcast
in fehching the family s water nedL                            t general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in yeans when registraion of TV sets was
Accs to Eue Disoa fpwrext of pep_aa)-r-tor. urba,              i. cffr
ad rura-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) served by     n                    e .ea
excrea dispoW  as percentage of their respective populations.    spw  Cckn (pa  hs p lnSows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the coleetion and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily genral interet newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publicauon devoted primarily to recording genaral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least four tmes a week.
Populadon par Pjy_dam-Pbpulaluon divided by number of prac-    Cinema Anami Attendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold dunng the year. including admussions to
Pop1laion par Nursig Parnop-ftpulation divided by number of    dnve-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurss.   LABOR FORCE
praticall nurses and nursing auxiliaries.LAOFRC
pcc        . tu s    ursi au'-toarie s  - .                     Total Labor Fonrce htoaumands-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban. and rual) divided by their respective number of  cludiny armed forcs and unemployed but e'cluding housves.
hospital beds available in public and privatc. general and spmalized  students. etc . covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitaton ccnters. Hospitals ar establishments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
pernanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov.-    Femna  percent)-Fcnalc labor forcc as percentage of total labor
iding pnncipally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force
however. includ health and medical centers not permanently staffed  .4gvicahure (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medial assistant. nurse. mnidwife. etc )  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 9%0. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limnted range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Industry fpercenti-Labor force in mining. construction. rnanu-
Admissias par Hospita Bed-'Total number of admissions to or    factunng and eletncitv. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds        force: 1960. 1970 and i9110 data
Parricipaon Rate (percenti-troral, mal, andfeimal-Partiapauon
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Average Sa of H    hold per s par hoeliholdjeral. whra.        as percentages of total. male and remale population of all ages
andruraL-A household consst of a group of individuals who share  rcspectivelv; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population. and
may not be inciuded in the household for statistical purposes.  long ume trcnd A few esumates are from national sources
Averar Nmber of Persons per Room--tarl. urban. and rural-      Economic Dependncy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-641
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of DieeUigs wirh Electricity--tora. urban. and rural-  Percentage of Total DOiposabk Incoew (both un cask and kind)-
Conmentional dwellings with electcity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked b) total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively         hold incomc
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A45istld E    _olniet Ratios                                   The following estimates are vcry approximate measures of povery
Primar school - rtoal mae andi fimale-Gross total. male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fermale enrollment of al ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Pbery Income Level LUSS per capata)-arban
respectiv primary school-ag populations. While many countnes   and rural-Absolute poveny income lcvel is that incomc Ic-el
consider primnary school age to be 6-l1 vean others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differenccs in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremerts is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with unvcrsal  Estimated Relative Poverty Income Level frUSS per capitai-urban
education, gross enroilment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country Urban level is
age.                                                           derivcd from the rural levcl %ith adjustmcnt for higher cOst ot
Secondary school - total, male and femal&-Computed as above.   living in urban areas
secondary education req ures at least four years of approved pn-  Estimated Popdlaioan Below A bso/ate Porery Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cent) -urban and rural- Percent of populauton i urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: corrcspond-  who are -absolute poor
ence courses are generally excluded.
Voctional Eno ni (percens of secondarvy)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analvsis and Data Division
tions indcude technical industriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



ANNEX I
PageS5 of 6
Populatton    : 53.4 million  (mid-1984)                      - 27 -
GNP per Capita:  US5660          (1984)
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Anount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (Z) (constant price)
current prices)                      Actual                    Est.                  Projected
Indicator                            1984             1980   1981   1982   1983   1984        1985    1986    1987   1988   1989   1990
NATIONAL ACCUUNTS
Cross domestic product            32.845             5.3    3.9    2.9    1.1   -4.6        -5.1       1.6    4.0    4.6    5.1    5.4
Agriculture                      8.354             5.0    3.7    3.1   -2.1    0.8         1.0       3.5    3.A    3.8    3.8    3.8
Industry                        11,045             4.7    4.5    2.1    0.7  -10.6    -13.5          1.0    4.2    5.5    6.5    6.9
Services                        13.446             6.2    3.4    3.5    3.7   -2.5        -1.7       1.0    4.0    4.3    4.8    5.0
Consumption                       27.054             4.4    3.9    3.5    2.0   -0.2        -5.6      -0.A    3.2    4.5    5.3    5.3
Cross investment                   5,988             4.4    2.3   -1.5   -4.7  -37.9    -15.n         16.7    5.0    5.0    5.3    5.3
Exports of GNFS                    7.043            12.7    1.1   -1.1    5.6    9.3         3.2       1.9    4.5    5.1    5.1    5.1
lIports of CNFS                    7,240             3.2   -2.6    3.2   -1.5  -19.0        -7.2       3.7    2.4    5.2    6.1    6.1
Cross nattonal savings             4,720             3.4    3.1   -6.5   -3.1  -38.5    -20.8
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                          Z85.7  317.2  34'.9  384.1  574.4    660.6
Exchange rate (USSI -   )                            7.5    7.9    8.5   11.1   16.7        18.5
Share of CDP at market prices (S)                          Average annual increase (C)
(at current prices)                                       (constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             5.1        o.1        6.2      -0.4        4.3
Agriculture                    28.1    27.8    29.0    23.2    24.1    23.6             4.5        4.3        5.3        1.3       3.8
Industry                       25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9    34.4    35.5             6.0       8.6        7.5       -3.4        5.0
Services                       46.1    42.6    37.5    39.9    41.5    40.9             5.2        5.4       5.6        1.3        4.0
Consumption                    85.3    79.2    75.8    73.8    80.3    77.5             b.8        5.5       4.7        0.8        3.7
Gross investment               16.3    21.5    31.0    30.5    20.5    20.9             8.2       11.5       7.9      -11.8        6.7
Exports of GNFS                10.8    19.4    18.5    20.1    21.2    23.2             5.8        3.2       11.8       3.6        4.5
Imports of GMFS                10.6    19.7    25.3    26.4    22.1    21.6             6.8       6.8        8.0       -5.4        4.7
Gross national savings         16.2    20.5    25.3    22.1    17.0    20.6             7.4       9.7        5.8         -          -
As 2 of GDP
1960     1970      1975      1980      1983        Labor force in 1983          Millions         2
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                           Agriculture                     9.8          48.8
Current revenue                     9.8       9.5      15.0      13.1      12.1        Industry                        9 3          46.2
Current expenditures                9.6       10.9     13.2       9.3       9.6        Services                      I            I
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)          0.2      -1.4       1.8       3.7       2.5       Unemployed                       1.0           5.0
Capital expenditure                 2.3        1.9      3.2       5.2       4.5
Foreign financing                    -        0.1       0.3       1.5       2.0             Total Labor Force         20.1         100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80            1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (1)                                5.1               6.1               6.2                0.4               4.6
Annual GNP per capita grovth rate (2)                    2.0                2.7               3.5              -2.1                Z.2
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                7.4                6.2               4.2                0.7               4.2
ICOR                                                     3.7                4.3               5.2              23.8                4.2
Marginal savings rate                                    0.29               0.33              0.26              NSA                (- 30
Import elasticity                                        1.33               1.12              1.20            -12.5                1.1
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1985



Anus. I
-29-                                                                       Ere  oft 6
PrILIPPINfS - 3le oI PAIETI AND CIxNAL CAPITAL AND DET
(9 milion, at currant priLes)
Actual                           at.                             Projecte~d
t980 Aetu81        1354     1§82 19 e7 1983  1934  TAT'       3988       98      198       l         1990     1996
Suaar, of Balaeas of Paysnta
Exports of goods end meritc.               8,010    .6.18    S04    83,112    8.017         7,901        3.301    9,404   10,531   11,627   33.308   19,055
Of which: exports of goods              53783    5,722    5,021    5.003    5,391         4,925        5.423    6,122    6,935    3,866    8,924   12,961
eopertr  of gsods snd services            10.146   13,151   11,690   11.354    9,671        9,017        9,610   10,234   11,341   12.646   14.215   20.,96
Of whichs  Imparts of goods              7,727    7,946    7,667    7,487    6,070        5,350        5,750    6,307    7,124    8,130    9,269   13,671
Transfers (neC)                              434       472      486       £72       386       437          461       479      479       319       539      bxi
Current Account bleatsc               -1.904   -2,061   -3,200   -2,750   -1,268          -679         -648     -392      -311      -302     -368      -768
Direct Investaent (net)                     -102       175        17      112         6        53           56        Al       103      110       117       130
hLT loans (net)                            1,012    1.332    1,543    1.392         253     1,894        1,153       778      725       946       567    1,190
OfflcIal-aaurce loasns  nec)               5336      /A       N/A      Nl/A      N/A      1,167        1.432    1.515   13,48    1,143    1,101    I,035
Private-source Loans Cnet)                 496      N/A       N/A      N/A       N/A        727         -279     -737      -723      -197     -536       355
Other capital (net) 'a                       593        -6      -14      -872      819         43          171        17        48       1 b      272       196
Overall BaLan-                          -381      -560   -L,o21   -2,118       -185      1,311          712       435      565       870      5S8       928
Internatlonal reserves (end-yesr)fb        4,013    2,962    2,422        908      894          -            -         -        -         -         -         -
Net international resarwes (of
Central  lnSk)                           1.n43       266   -1.370   -2.932   -3.003         143/s      1.530    2.065    2.630    3.500    4,088    5.736
Reserves a  montho of Imports                1.2      0.3      -1.4      -1.1     -3.7        1.0          1.3       2.2      2.5       3.0       3.D       3.0
Cxternal Capital and Debt
Crass Diaburnomenct                        1,387    2,116    2.693    2,224    1 459
Concessional Loans                         16h      212        176      151
Bhlaterml                                107      198       IS9      333       515
IDA                                       2         7         8        -         I
other multtlateral                        59        7         9        -
Noncoacessional Loan*                    1,719    1.924    2,518    2,073    1,172
Official export credits                    8       so        66       95       622
33RD                                    229       341      251       584       610
0ther  ul ttaIteral                      83       119       125       161      216
Private aources                       1,399    1.306    2,076    1,212         402
External Debt
Debt outctanding and dlebursed          8,415   10,148   12,145   13.619   11,893
Officti1-aource                       2,802    3,494    3,865    4,824    5,628
Private-ource                         5,613    6,654    8,Z80    8,335    8,265
UndIabursed debt /1                      4.086    4.546    3,999    4,200    4.309
Debt Service
Total service payments Id                1,013    1,560    2.043    1.324    1.442
Of whLch:  interest                     568       806    1.076       852    1.053
Payments as 2 of exports of goods
and services /d                         12.6     18.1      25.6      16.3     18.0
Averge interest race on new loans
Official-source                              7.4       7.7 1   14_.       9.4      9.4
Private-source                              14.3      15.5   I
Average maturity of new loans
OffLetal-aource                             20.2      2. 9   I 9.0        8.8      8.6
Private-source                              10.1      10.0   (
1   Nonmunetary short-tern capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omlssions.
7i; IFS lines 21d end lad (groas official reserves and current value of gold).
7W  Public and publicly garanteed only.
7; Includes prepayments of 5492 millon In 1979 snd 392 million In 19801 1985 onwards reflect. estimated rescheduled maturitles.
7e  Asseus adjutmnt of abort ter  Ilabilties of $2,540  lillon through debt rescheduling.
East A-i. and Pacific Region
November 1985



ANNZX I I
- 29 -                                              Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
As of September 30, 1985
Loan or
credit                                                                                     Amount (less cancellattons)
number       FT    Borrower                     Purpose                                    Bank      IDA      Undisburaed
Fifty Loans and three credits fully disbursed                                             1,478.30    32.22          -
1227-PH     1976   Rep. of the Philippines    Chtco Irrigation                               50.00      -           0.60
1353-PH     1977               "                Third Highways                              95.00       -           1.27
1414-PH     1977               "                Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement              50.00      -          13.67
1421-PH     1977                                 RuraL Dev. Land SettLement II               15.00      -           2.16
1460-PH     1978   National Power Corp.          Seventh Power                               58.00      -           2.25
1506-PH     1978   Rep. of the PhiLtppines    SmelLholder Tree Farming                        5.85      -           1.65
1526-PH     1978               "                Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement II          65.00       -          25.67
790-PH     1978                                 Rural Infrastructure                          -      28.00        10.43
1567-PH     1978               "                Magat II                                    150.00      -           1.96
1615-PH     1979                                ManiLa Water SuppLy II                      88.00       -          12.15
1626-PH     1979               "                National Extension                           35.00      -          15.81
1646-PH     1979                                 Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)               16.50      -           1.78
1647-PH     1979                                 Second Urban Development                    32.00      -           1.41
1661-PH     1979                                Highways IV                                100.00       -          20.77
1710-PH     1979                                Water Supplv Il                              16.00      -          16.00
920-PH     1979                                 Water Supply II                               -      22.00         9.77
923-PH     1979                                 Population II                                 -      40.00        24.57
1772-PH     1980                                 Samar Island Rural Development             27.00       -          14.31
1786-PN     1980                                 Fisheries Training (Educ. VI)               38.00/b    -          25.62
1809-PH     1980               "                Medium-Scale Irrigation                     37.00       -          18.16
.814-PH     1980               "                 Manila Sewerage & Sanitation                51.00      -          14.35
1815-PH     1980                                RainEed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)                 12.00      -           7.17
1821-PH     1980               "Third Urban                                                 72.00       -          28.58
1855-PH     1980               "                Third Ports                                 67.00       -          16.61
1860-PH     1980                                 Rural Roads Improvement                    62.00       -          29.49
1890-PH     1981                                Watershed Management                        38.00       -          18.79
1894-PH     1981                                 Third Livestock & FIsheries                 24.56      -           2.68
1903-PH     1981                                 Structural Adjustment                     200.00       -           0.23
1984-PR     1981   Central Bank of the Phil.  Industrial Finance (Apex)                     150.00      -         114.77
2030-PH     1981   Rep. of the Philippines    Elementary Educ. Sector Loan                  100.00      -          80.97
2040-PH     1982                                 Agric. Support Services                     45.00      -          41.06
2067-PH     1982               "                 Urban Engineering                           8.00       -           0.86
2127-PH     1982                                 Textile Sector Restructure                  57.40      -          43.44
2156-PH     1982                                 National Fisheries Development              22.40      -          21.73
2169-PH     1982                                 SMI III                                     85.01      -          37.69
2173-PH     1982               "                 Communal Irrigation                         71.10      -          56.83
2181-PH     1982   National Power Corp.          Coal Exploration                            10.00      -           4.90
2200-PH     1983   Rep. of the Philtppines    Educatton VILI                                 24.40      -          20.40
2201-PH     1983   Philippines Nat. Oil Co.   Petroleum Exploration Promotion                 9.00      -           2.24
2202-PH     1983               "                 Petroleum Exploration Promotion             24.00      -          17.21
2203-PH      1983              "                 Geothermal Exploration                      36.00      -          29.18
2206-PH     1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Sanitation                    35.50      -          22.23
2257-PH     1983                                 Regional Cities Development                 67.00      -          57.82
2360-PH     1984                                 Central Visayas Regional Development        25.60      -          22.51
1282-1      1984               "                Manila Urban Development Supplement         10.50       -           7.00
1639-1      1984                                Magat River Multipurpose Supplement          5.10       -           1.88
2418-PH     1984               "                 Highways V                                 102.00      -         101.13
2435-PH     1984                                 Munittpal Development (Second)              40.00      -          36.92
2469-PH     1985                                 Agricultural Sector Inputs                 150.00      -         101.37
2'95-PH     1985               "                 Telecom. Tech. Assistance                    4.00      -           2.90
2570-PH     1985   Central Bank of the Phil.  Agricultural Credit                           100.00      -         100.00
Total                                                                        4,065.02   122.22    1,262.95
oE which has been repaid                                                     527.96      0.83
Total now outstanding                                                        3,537.06   121.39
Amount sold                                                31.94
Of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                         26.98                  4.96      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                       3,532.10   121.39
Total undisbursed                                                            1,Z18.18    44.77    1,262.95
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects
in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b Includes $7.6 million NORAD funds.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1985
Fiscal
year                  Company                              Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines          15.0      4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0     4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.          3.7      0.8     4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4     1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.              -       2.2     2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1     8.3
972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.         15.0       -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6         0.6     2.2
1974         Rerublic Flour Hills Corporation                1.2       -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.           7.0      -       7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2     2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5       -      3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Wvorks, Inc.    2.1         -      2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                       10.1      0.1    10.2
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business                -       0.3     0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5       -      4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                  18.5      0.6    19.1
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refi:iing Corp.   -         5.0     5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                       16.0      -      16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                        11.0       -     11.0
Total Gross Commitments                      136.5    23.3   159.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              99.1    14.4   113.5
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC             37.4      B.9    46.3
Total Undisbursed (including
participants' portion)                       5.11    0.02    5.13



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           Six months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:       Metropolitan Waterworks
and Sewerage System
(c)  Date of the first Bank Mission to
consider the project:                  March 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          May 1985
(e)  Negotiations completed:                  January 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           May 1986
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Government will take all necessary measures to ensure that
charges due to MWSS be settled by the national Government agencies
and local governments in accordance with an agreed Action Plan
(para. 57).
(b)  MWSS will:
(i) annually, starting with 1986, update its investment program and
financing plan for the following five years, furnish them to
the Bank by September 30, and review the program and plan with
the Bank semi-annually (para. 34);
(ii) implement the rehabilitation program in accordance with the
agreed Action Program and review progress annually (para. 52);
and
(iii)  achieve an annual rate of return on average current net value
of fixed assets used in its water supply and sewerage
operations of not less than 6Z in 1986, 7Z in 1987, and 8% per
year from 1988 onwards; not incur any long-term debt unless a
debt servicing ratio of not less than 1.5 can be maintained;



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
and carry out annual reviews, starting with 1986, of the level
and structure of its water and sewerage tariffs and other
charges, furnish such reviews before June 30 to the Bank for
its comment, and implement any recommendations agreed in
accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the Bank (para
56).
(c) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and MWSS would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 47).



*                . .   ...P ILP I E
;j.-:: i,' : .......... : ~~~~P H I L I P P I N E  S 
. (  -  .METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
.    9u zo  PHRIPPNE SEA                   STATUS  OF  MWS  II PROJECT  AS OF  OCTOBER  1985
I
15    '\     AI               150-.,                          
\MANILA 
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
|   P  H.i : I .PI .P    I  N    EES  \
C HINA  A,     D   '  . S Y'? ,.4  S                                      .,
FA
¢,100  &    vI*-. s  t ', s
I  ,-  ,,NOANA  0it°tlrl (     I,  01 I
12. r
7________________________________________  
A7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~'
MA . I  LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'~~~ '.''~~~  S.    '    i'%*"4'~~~~~~~'"4~~ *..                     N    ~     (
.~~.rj~4~~E.'*



8~~ ~~~    Pipee in ;rir Cotrc Ntuymb.te'
* Rivers':-
* .:     :   ---.  .   -   Pis'irbution Service Area Boundariles
0   1   2   3   4   5  KILOMETERS
I ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    ~     Q I
~~'I              i       <   - nt00-0 i0:
o                                                                .                                                  W
0~~I                                                     -DE4 X
t\S;: : 1g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.-..
8 A G
;~~~~E:.:~~~~~  3        :
I  I                         .          *    ~ ~~~~~~~~~--U¾-~~~~~~~*'J.4~~~~~~~



P H I L I P P I N E S 
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT  /
., u z  oPROPOSED WATER DISTRIBUTION WORKS
%'~~~~ILA  15                                                                                         -.I~~~~N  1
L ';'  Us           .; ||          \                               t _--F                                    N_ -                            I
'   ;t ~~~~                                  ~                                                                  a,  F1\N  nj       s  
roIo'ed /cjecls.          l S   ~rtsx         >&t   '    BA ;43>  2
,.*                                          NF *nilnFo  16 kl-; >   4''  A    6       y       jgS 
SD
-f BA~~~ ~ ~ ~~~ 2                                                              A2
ln.filling ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~SD1                                             NFasN
Subdivistons  SD            .I..~~~~~~~~~~~4  %    A  4F
_____                   6.>~~~~~~ BA. 52~~~ DA  47A'
_____   Slighted Arias BA    54,~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
Ii   I  lb *                  8'~~0  B   -26~. 



4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
hLIsIIflg Iip e~  L I *B .3. ¶..N                                                                             F A  ia   -
--Distribution Service Aria Boundaries       CA                             A*4         ~t        S  
SEE ANNEX TO THIS M  FOR UST OEtPOPOSD tWORK.1                     q                                  1NF1     
°    i    2    3    4    5  KILOMETERS                               ax
t       1       2       3  MILES          C BAAS12\                                           'A
(SD  BA~, .34 JA13 s   
Rivers&                                  S D.                                            L    GAUNA 3
.1        -.'g ..     Df SD * 20                                        /                   L A       U  N  A        -NI
.t' ..... ..B A -l .:;6*A
0~~ ~~~~~~5 1 2 3 4 5                                                                                 lKILOMATERS
*0 M                                                                     6
I                           *.~~~~~~.-  *9    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      t,.D- 
SD                                                                                            - A-1
-F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DE
. ................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1T



