Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14293
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
APRIL 11, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso -(P)
Average used in appraisal estimates (February 1986): US$ = P 18.7
Actual yearly average market values: I/
US$ = P 20.39 (1986)    US$ = P 24.31 (1990)
= P 20.57 (1987)         = P 27.48 (1991)
= P 21.09 (1988)         = P 25.51 (1992)
= P 21.74 (1989)         = P 27.12 (1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
cu m   =    Cubic meter (1,000 liters or 264 US gallons)
ha     =    hectare (2.47 acres)
km     =    kilometer (0.62 miles)
1      =    liter (0.26 US gallons)
1/cd   =    liter per capita per day
m      =    meter (1,000 millimeters or 3.28 feet)
mm     =    millimeter
Ml     =    million liters per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          = Asian Development Bank
COA          = Commission on Audit
DPWH         = Department of Public Works and Highways
ICG         = Internal cash generation
IDC         = Interest during construction
IFRR        = Financial Internal Rate of Return
MCM          = Million cubic meters
MMWDP        = Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Project
MWSP II      = Second Manila Water Supply Project
MWSRP-I      = Manila Water Supply Rehabilitation Project I
MWSS         = Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NEDA         = National Economic Development Authority
NRW          = Non revenue water
OGCC         = Office of the Government Corporate Council
SAR          = Staff Appraisal Report
Average market value (rf) values from "International Financial
Statistics" published by the International Monetary Fund.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 11, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on The Philippines
Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Proiect (Loan 2676-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on The Philippines - Metropolitan Manila Water
Distribution Project (Loan 2676-PH) prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department I of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II of the report was contributed by the
Borrower, Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) of Manila.
The project was the third Bank-funded project for water supply in Manila. It was closely linked
with a parallel ADB project aiming at a major reduction of unaccounted-for-water (UFW), estimated
at 55 percent at the time. The project focused on maximizing the utilization of the existing production
and transmission capacity. The effort included expansion of, and improvements to, the distribution
system part of which, about 35 percent of the total cost, was the completion of carry-over works from
a preceding project. Technical assistance was provided to strengthen MWSS's financial management.
The project underwent several revisions mainly due to increased self funding of distribution
extensions requested by MWSS. This resulted in the cancellation of about 45 percent of the loan. The
revisions together with numerous procurement and contractor perfornance problems delayed the project
by about three years. The project exceeded its target in distribution extensions (including self-funded
components), and achieved about 95 percent of the targeted number of service (house) connections.
Right-of-way problems experienced in low-income areas caused a major shortfall in the number of "yard
tap" connections. As a result, incremental service coverage was at about 70 percent of the projected
target. Achievements of the parallel UFW reduction prograrn were minimal. All this slowed down the
growth of water sales and the expected full utilization of the existing capacitv did not materialize. The
financial situation of MWWS, however, remained healthy; the covenanted RoR requirements of six to
eight percent were exceeded. Limited institution building objectives were largely met.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory and its institutional development as modest.
The sustainability of project benefits is rated as likely.
The Project Completion Report gives a thorough review of project implementation and its
achievements. Part 1I presents a realistic picture of project results as well as a candid discussion of
issues and problems faced.
No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaticn.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface      .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .
Evaluation  Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 ii
PART  I:  PROJECT  REVIEW FROM BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . .
Project  Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project  Objectives  and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               2
Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               2
Project  Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               2
Project  Organization  and Design   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                3
Design     .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  3
Project  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                3
Loan  Processing  and  Project  Start-up   . . . . . . . . . . .                            3
Procurement         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           3
Project  Revisions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              4
Project  Delays    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              4
Project  Costs         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          5
Project Financing .                              . . . . .                                 5
Loan Allocations  and Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . .                               5
Project  Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                6
Physical  Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               6
Financial  Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              6
Economic  Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               7
Institutional  Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              7
Project  Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                7
Bank  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . .                                8
Borrower/Implementing  Agency  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . .                               8
Performance  of Suppliers  and Contractors  . . . . . . . . . . .                               8
Project  Documentation  and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               9
Conclusions  and Lessons  Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               9
PART  II:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWERS  PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .                              10
Evolution  and  Implementation of the  Project    . . . . . . . . .                           10
Conceptualization           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       10
Changes  in  Project  Content/Financing   . . . . . . . . . . .                           10
Comparative Analysis             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       13
Physical Accomplishments  Under  Part A  . . . . . . . . . . .                            13
Physical  Accomplishments  Under  Parts  B - G.  . . . . . . . .                          14
Project  Cost  and Annual  Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . .                           15
Project  Internal  Financial  Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . .                           15
Causes  of  Delay   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              16
Internal    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             16
External    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             16
Contractor's  Financing  Problems  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            17
MWSS  Internal  Problems   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            17
Lessons  and  Improvements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              18
Feasibility Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              18
Detailed  Engineering   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             18
Borrower's  Performance            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      21
Bank'  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               23
1. Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              23
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised . . . . . . . . . . . .              24
3. Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27
a) Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . . . .             27
b) Original and Final Allocation of Proceeds   . . . . . . .             28
4. Project Implementation: Monitoring Indicators . . . . . . .              29
5. Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              31
6. Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              35
a) Direct Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             35
b) Economic Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             36
c) Financial Impact: Key Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . .              37
7. Status of Major Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              39
8. Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              44
a) Bank Staff/Consultant Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              44
b) Bank Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             45
Annex 1: Description of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               47
Annex 2: Calculation of Internal Financial Rate of Return (Appraisal)              49
Annex 3: Calculation of Internal Financial Rate of Return (Completion)    so
Annex 4: Compliance With Major Covenants (Prepared by MWSS)   . . . .              58



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Metropolitan
Manila Water Distribution Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 2676-PH
in the amount of US$69.0 million to the Republic of the Philippines was
approved on April 3, 1986. This was the third project financed by the Bank
exclusively for community water supply in Manila . The Bank had also financed
a Sewerage and Sanitation Project for Manila (Part III, Section 1).
During project implementation, at the request of the Borrower,
US$31.0 million of the loan amount was canceled and the original closing date
of December 31, 1991 was extended twice to December 31, 1993. The loan
account was closed on May 19,1994 when the undisbursed balance of US$2.7
million was canceled. The final disbursed amount was US$35.3 million.
The PCR has been prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I
and III) and the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System of Manila which
prepared Part II.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Project and its Objectives
i.          The Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Project (MMWDP) was
intended to assist with improvement of the efficiency of the Metropolitan
Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) in utilization of existing water
production and transmission capacity for the benefit of about 2.3 million
people, of which about 20% were poor. The project components were
conventional, with no significant innovations, and comprised a program of
additions and improvements to the distribution system and technical assistance
to strengthen financial management and for the preparation of the proposed
future Laiban Dam project (Paras. 1.9-1.10 and Annex 1).
ii.         The project was a follow-up to the Second Manila Water Supply
Project (MWSP II) which the Bank had financed (Ln. 1615-PH) in 1978 (Part III-
1). MWSP II had experienced long delays and cost overruns during a severe
national economic crisis and it appeared that funds required for completion of
water distribution components were inadequate. Therefore, the new project was
intended to finance completion of some distribution started under MWSP II:
about 35% of the amount of the new loan was intended for this purpose (Paras.
1.3-1.4, 1.9-1.10 and 2.1).
iii.        Prior to identification of the new project, the Bank was expected
to assist with the financing of a large increase in water production capacity,
the next stage of MWSS's ambitious long-term development program. The change
in plans resulted from a joint MWSS/Bank review of investment priorities when
it was agreed that top priority should go to new distribution and service
connections so as to better use available capacity, increase population
coverage and improve MWSS revenues (Paras. 1.3, 1.5 and 2.1).
iv.         Another change in MWSS priorities at that time, from production
expansion to better use of existing facilities, was reflected in the first ADB
financed Manila Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. This was MWSS's first
major effort directed specifically toward reduction of its unacceptably high
non revenue water (NRW) problem and it was a critical companion to the new
Bank project (paras. 1.3, 1.5, 1.8 and 1.11).
Implementation Experience
v.          Loan processing proceeded efficiently and the loan was approved
substantially on schedule in spite of a number of issues which had to be
resolved (Part III-2a and 2b). Various government actions on behalf of MWSS
were taken in time to avoid an extended delay in negotiations. Project
planning was advanced to the point where the first contracts could be tendered
about the time the loan was scheduled for approval. The latest date for
effectiveness had to be extended twice, however, while problems relating to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and restrictions attached to the Monetary
Board's approval of the loan were resolved. It appears also that reservations
by MWSS's new management about proceeding with the project may have
contributed to this delay (Paras. 1.14-1.16, 2.15 and 2.20).
vi.         The project was being revised constantly.  At the very beginning,
MWSS determined that, because of subsidence in the inflation rate and because
government equity contributions were again available, the balance of MWSP II
works would not require funding from the new loan. As the project progressed,
MWSS decided to finance, from its own or other sources of funds, other works
which had been identified as part of the project. Also, MWSS elected not to
use consultants to assist with project management, and when the Laiban project
was deferred, there was no longer any need to include the relevant consulting
services as part of this project (Paras. 1.20-1.22).



- iii -
vii.         The preliminary plans for connections to and within subdivisions
and blighted and other areas (Annex 1) were based on surveys, maps and other
data which proved to be inadequate or incorrect. This caused a number of
problems, particularly with respect to access and rights-of-way, and required
the replacement or cancellation of some of the intended works (Paras. 2.10,
2.16, 2.21, 2.28, 2.32, 2.44 and 2.47-2.48). Otherwise, there were no
significant problems with project designs.
viii.        In accordance with MWSS practice, most of the works were carried
out through a large number of small contracts, placing an extra burden on
project management which already was in a state of transition to a new
centralized system (paras. 1.13 and 1.17). In addition to being overloaded,
the procurement process was hampered by an extremely cumbersome bureaucratic
system of checks and balances involving not only MWSS but also various
government agencies. Some of these constraints were relieved during the
project at the initiative of MWSS project staff (Para. 1.18).
ix.         There were difficulties with several contractors who abandoned the
work or were terminated, requiring retendering or the taking over of the work
by MWSS. While some of these contractors lacked the necessary technical
qualifications, most of the problems were caused by underbidding or the lack
of necessary financial resources. During the project, the government-dictated
requirements for qualifying contractors were strengthened (Paras 1.19 and
2.30-2.31).
x.          The project implementation period was extended about three years
byond the original scheduled completion date of December 31, 1990 (Part III-
2a), primarily because of the delays resulting from the many project
revisions. There were also delays caused by tendering and contract award
procedures and the performance failures of some contractors (Para. 1.23).
xi.         The final cost of the project was about P 1,585 million (US$ 69.4
million equivalent, before interest and other charges on the loan during
construction (IDC). This is about 92% of the appraisal estimate of P 1,725
million. The savings are attributed to the project revisions and to price
inflation which was lower than predicted during appraisal (Paras. 1.24-1.27
and Part III-5b and 5c). The reduced bank loan of US$35.3 million was
required for only 47k of project expenditures, or 43t of total project
financing including IDC, as compared to the appraisal forecasts of about 71%
and 72% respectively. Other funds required for the project from MWSS and
other sources were available as needed MWSS (Paras. 1.28-1.29).
xii.         From the start, the rate of withdrawals from the loan was far
behind the appraisl forecasts. The date of closing the loan account, in May
1994, nearly two-and-one-half years later than the original closing date, was,
however, predictable from the country profile for disbursements on Bank
financed Philippine projects in this sector that existed when the project was
appraised (Paras. 1.30-1.32 and Part III-3a and b).
Project Results
xiii.       Taking into account the revisions and somewhat reduced scope of
the project, it is considered to have satisfied the physical objectives. The
length of pipelines constructed during the project period and financed in part
at least from the loan and MWSS funds was more than three times the estimated
amounts.  Not counting service connections internal to the subdivisions to
which MWSS extended service, about 95% of of the target for service
connections was met. The disappointments were in the inability to add many
yard connections in low income areas and that the estimated additional
population served by distribution extensions was only about 70 % of the
objective (Paras. 1.33-1.34 and PartIII-4 and 6a).
xiv.        MWSS financial performance during the project period was
disappointing, principally in the failure to achieve operating revenue targets
despite the fact that projected water production and house connections were
close to the target. The volume of water sold, however, was only 57° of the
forecast for 1993   The main reasons are two-fold:  a) failure to reduce NRW



- iv -
which, in 1993, was still about 57% of production; and b) increases in water
tariffs during the project were not up to the required levels. Another factor
was that reduction in arrears owed by government agencies had not been reduced
sufficiently (paras. 1.35-1.39 and Part III-6c).
xv.          The recalculated internal financial rate of return (IFRR) for the
completed project is about 17%. While this is well below the optimistic
appraisal estimate of nearly 40%, such an IFRR is considered very good for a
water supply project (Para. 1.40 and Part III-6b).
xvi.         The MWSS institution continued to develop during the project
period. An improved management information system was established and project
management capabilities have been further developed by MWSS staff having
carried out the project without assistance from consultants (Para. 1.41).
Sustainabilitv
xvii.        The principle risks to achievement and enhancement of the
project's potential benefits would be failures to properly maintain its system
and to make significant progress on the serious NRW problem which, in turn.
robs MWSS of the finances required for efficient operation and maintenance.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xviii.       Although revised considerably and reduced in scope, the project
satisfied most of its objectives at a reasonable cost and is considered a
success. The recalculated IFRR of about 17% is very good for a project in
this sector. The completion delay of about three years stemmed mainly from a
change in MWSS management, a major reorganization of MWSS and the resulting
reconfiguration of the project. Sustainability of the project is good,
providing that maintenance is adequate and that MWSS makes a more concentrated
and successful effort to reduce the level of NRW.
The principal lessons emerging from the project experience are:
a)    no matter what other improvements and extensions are made to the
MWSS water supply system, reaching MWSS's potential as a viable
public utility organization depends on the success of a
concentrated effort to reduce NRW to levels acceptable for a water
supply utility (paras. 1.8, 1.36, 1.42 and 1.48);
b)    allowing local agencies with adequate capabilities to assume a
larger role in planning and managing a project can pay dividends
in terms of increased initiative and sense of responsibility and
participation by the staff (para. 1.41);
c)    before the beginning of the project, a Bank mission should meet
with the staff directly responsible for carrying out the project
and explain and reach agreement on exactly what is expected in
terms of accounting and reporting on the physical and financial
aspects of the project (paras. 1.25-1.26 and 2.60); and
d)    in project preparation, Bank staff should take more account of the
country disbursement profile when preparing the project timetable
and disbursement forecast (para. 1.32).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identitv
1.        Project Name:         Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Project
Loan Number:         2676-PH
RVP Unit:            Asia Regional Office
Country:             Republic of the Philippines
Borrower:            Republic of the Philippines
Sector:              Water Supply
Background
1.1       while the Philippines is well endowed with water resources, public
water supply systems have had a continuing struggle to tap these resources and
expand their services to a larger proportion of the population, as a means,
along with improved sewerage and other sanitation services, of reducing the
incidence of water-borne and sanitation related diseases prevalent nationwide.
1.2       Much had been done during the 1970's and early 1980's to improve
community water supplies and a start was made to improve sanitary conditions.
Following a major sector review in 1972, sector-institutions were established,
including the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) which was
established in 1972 and is responsible for development, operation and
maintenance of the water supply and sewerage systems in Metropolitan Manila.
National sector objectives were defined and ambitious master plans prepared.
Physical development started with water supply and sanitation projects in
several provincial communities and later in Metropolitan Manila and in rural
areas.
1.3       In 1978 the Bank approved Loan 1615-PH for the Second Manila Water
Supply Project (MWSP II) which had as one of its objectives to assist MWSS
into becoming an efficient and financially viable public utility. The project
was co-financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) which financed source
development works and technical assistance on preparation of a program to
reduce non-revenue water (NRW). The next major stage of MWSS's ambitious
long-term investment plan (referred to as MWS III) was to double water
production capacity through exploitation of a distant catchment area,
scheduled for implementation in 1985-1990.
1.4       The Bank financed component of MWSP II included extension of bulk
water mains and the distribution system and technical assistance on staff
development. It was delayed four years, largely because of unexpected
implementation complexities (reflecting on the realism of the implementation
timetable), a severe national economic/financial crisis and unprecedented cost
increases which resulted to a general shortage of government counterpart funds
and contributed to financial difficulties of contractors. Also, water sales
through 1986 were much lower than projected due to the delay in distribution
works, an increase in non-revenue water (NRW) and lower sales to commercial
customers because of the recession. By 1985 it appeared there would be
insufficient funds to complete the Bank.financed component.
1.5       A joint review by MWSS and the Bank concluded that additional
production capacity would not be needed until 1995. Instead of proceeding
with MWS III, therefore, a new Bank financed project should give immediate
priority to further expansion of distribution to utilize available capacity,
improved population coverage and MWSS revenues, and renewed emphasis on



-2-
reduction of (NRW) by expediting the Manila Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project I (MWSRP I) for which ADB had made a loan in September 1983. Mainly
because of a current shortage of funds and partly because of implementation
delays, the uncompleted bulk water mains and distribution works included in
the Bank financed component of MWSP II were to be incorporated in the new
project.
1.6       Meanwhile, MWSS had been reorganized in 1985, and in spite of
several management changes which adversely affected staff moral, particularly
at the senior staff level, it had potential to develop into a well managed
entity with competent professional staff and a good program for training
technical and lower level staff.
1.7       MWSS had severe financial problems, however, including: limits on
borrowing and government equity contributions allowed under the MWSS charter;
its ability to self finance was substantially limited because it carried the
foreign exchange risk on foreign loans to GOP passed on to MWSS and MWSS's
exemption from taxes had been lifted by GOP in 1984; the Government's
agreements to provide counterpart funds as needed for MWSS projects were not
being met; and substantial arrears owed to MWSS for services to government
agencies. In addition, the MWSS organization lacked a unit to focus
specifically on revenue generation (Part III, Section 2b).
1.8       The principal physical and operational problems, which also
adversely affected MWSS's financial performance, were: insufficient
distribution mains and service connections, accentuated by the failure to
complete the mains included in MWSP II; excessive NRW levels (50t or more of
production); and a very weak effort to provide new service connections and
other means of improving revenue generation (Part III, Section 2b).
Proiect Objectives and Description
1.9       Obiectives  The Manila project was designed to address a basic need
and tn strengthen the institutional capacity of a major public utility.  The
project was intended to provide a more reliable and efficient water service
for about 2.3 million people, of which about 20%- were poor, to improve the
efficiency and performance of MWSS through improved utilization of water
production capacity and maintenance of existing facilities, and to further
strengthen financial management. It was designed to benefit from past
experience by adopting a more realistic implementation schedule and by keeping
the need for government counterpart contributions to a minimum.
1.10      Proiect Description  Annex 1 shows the project description from
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement. It comprised: (a) completion of works
commenced under MWSP II; (b) construction of additional bulk mains and
distribution works; (c) infilling distribution networks in 24 areas; (d)
provision of yard connections and standpipes in low-income areas; (e)
acquisition of additional water meters; (f) installation of distribution
control valves; (g) development of some deep wells; (i) preparation of future
projects including seismic monitoring of a proposed future dam site; and (j)
institutional support to MWSS including consulting services, including
supervision of a program to achieve service connection targets, training, and
provision of vehicles and computing facilities. About 35 percent of the loan
for the new project was intended for financing contracts awarded under MWSP II
and scheduled for completion in 1987.
1.11      A critical complementary ongoing undertaking by MWSS was the ADB-
financed MWSRP-I project (para. 1.05) which reflected a changed emphasis from
new works to maintenance and rehabilitation of old distribution facilities.
The ADB project comprised an accelerated program of repair and replacement,
zone by zone, of old network, and institutional measures to strengthen MWSS
procedures and its maintenance organization. Because progress on this project



-3-
had lagged, an action program, already approved by ADB, was provided to the
Bank at negotiations, and agreement was reached on an implementation timetable
and on annual progress reviews by the Bank.
1.12      A number of issues concerning matters which were adversely
affecting MWSS performance were raised by the Bank during the loan processing
stages and agreement was reached with the Government and MWSS on appropriate
action. These included action: to increase MWSS capitalization; for the
Government to release counterpart funds as necessary for the proposed new
project as well as related ongoing projects; in a reorganization of MWSS, to
devote particular attention to improving revenue generation; and to establish
a plan for payment of arrears owed MWSS by government agencies (Part III-2b).
Proiect OrQanization and DesiQn
1.13      Organization  Unlike previous Bank financed projects which were
handled by a Special Projects Office (SPO), this project was to be handled by
the relevant departments, i.e., Engineering for design, Construction for
contract administration and construction supervision, Customer Services for
the connection program, and Finance for project accounting. Coordination was
to be by the Senior Deputy Administrator who formerly headed SPO and who would
be assisted by consultants to advise on and monitor the water distribution and
rehabilitation programs.
1.14      Desicin  By the time the loan was approved, project preparation was
well advanced. The works were based on hydraulic models developed by the
consultants for MWSP II. The surveys and detailed designs, final cost
estimates and preparation of bid documents were being carried out by the
Design Division, for which such work was routine. Priorities had been
established and were satisfactory. A typical contract document to be used
throughout the project for all distribution system civil works had been
approved by the Bank. Bidding for the first five contract packages was
scheduled to begin about the time the Bank loan was approved, and to continue
at interval of three to 12 months until mid-1989.
Proiect Implementation
1.15      Loan ProcessinQ and Project Startup  There were no significant
problems during loan processing. An Executive Order signed in November 1985,
amended the MWSS charter and increased the limit on MWSS capitalization from
3.0 billion pesos to 8.0 billion, and a unit to focus on revenue generation
had been established in MWSS and staffed (para. 1.12). Both of these steps
had been taken in time to avoid an extended delay in negotiations.
Subsequently, loan approval was only slightly behind the timetable established
in the Initiating Project Brief.
1.16      The latest date for effectiveness had to be extended twice,
however, because of a delay in the steps required to make the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement binding on MWSS, and because clarification was needed that the
conditions about import duties and restrictions attached to the government's
Monetary Board approval of the loan did not conflict with the provisions of
the Loan Agreement. It appears also that MWSS uncertainty about proceeding
with the project also may have contributed to the delay (para. 2.20). The
loan became effective on August 22, 1986 (Part III-2a).
1.17      Procurement  Continuing in the pattern of MWSP II, the works were
packaged in a large number of small contracts to encourage participation of
small local contractors, and thereby promote development of the local
contracting industry. While the experience with this practice was better than



in MWSP II, it multiplied the load on project management, which during this
project was in a state of transition (paras. 1.15 and 2.33), and led to delays
in processing documents, including those involving payments.
1.18      Procurement was delayed also by extremely cumbersome procedures for
approval of contract awards, final contracts and notices-to proceed involving
not only MWSS administration and its Board of Trustees but also the Office of
the Government Corporate Council and the Commission on Audit. While some of
these procedures were improved during the course of the project, others
persisted throughout (paras. 2.24-2.26).
1.19      Some contractors had difficulties for financial reasons (attributed
to underbidding, price increases and weak financial management) and others
because of a lack of technical capabilities. The results were a number of
contract which had to be terminated and retendered or that MWSS had to
complete with its own staff. The number of such cases reflects on the
adequacy of procedures for qualifying contractors and on contract conditions
which MWSS was obliged to follow according to government regulations and which
were improved somewhat during the project (paras. 2.30-2.31).
1.20      Proiect Revisions  The specific content of the project described in
the loan documents was changed substantially during implementation as
explained in Part II, paras. 2.2-2.10, 2.21 and 2.28. The major change
occurred at the beginning of the project. During the period between loan
approval and effectiveness, while MWSS was uncertain about proceeding with the
project, MWSS decided that a number of contracts intended to be financed from
the loan could and would be self financed, a result of the improved economic
situation in 1987. These included substantially all of the remaining works
under MWSP II after the loan funds for that project were exhausted. This
required that new works had to be designed and contracts prepared for
financing under this loan and this contributed to the initial project delays.
1.21      Other distribution works were transferred to the Angat Water Supply
Optimization Project's distribution component financed by ADB. Most yard
connections in low income areas could not be implemented because of the lack
of defined rights-of-way. Much of the intended extension of MWSS service to
subdivisions was curtailed because of problems with rights-of-way, policy
regarding MWSS installation of pipelines in private property and non-existent
or substandard distribution mains in the subdivisions.
1.22      MWSS decided also not to use consultants to assist with project
implementation and to use only 12 staff-months of local consulting service in
preparation of the Program for Revenue Improvement. Consulting services for
updating studies for the proposed Laiban Dam project were not needed because
that project was deferred.
1.23      Project Delays  In Part II, paras. 2.20-2.34, MWSS staff have aptly
described the several reasons why project completion was delayed by three
years from the appraisal forecast of December 31 1990 to about the end of
1993. These include: decisions to change the first contracts to be financed
from the loan and other changes in project content made throughout the
implementation period; delays in contract administration caused by MWSS
procedures and government policies; problems with rights-of-way, excavation
permits from local government agencies and limited local pipe manufacturing
capacity; and termination of a number of contracts for failure to perform.



1.24      Project Costs  The cost estimates as shown in the appraisal report
are shown in III-5a, and are compared with the final cost data provided by
MWSS in III-5b and 5c. The final cost of the project was about P 1,585
million (US$69.4 million equivalent) before interest and other charges on the
loan during construction (IDC). These totals are about 92% of the appraisal
estimates when expressed in pesos but only about 81% when expressed in US$
because most project expenditures were in pesos which depreciated about 25%
during project implementation.
1.25      Project cost savings were due to the project revisions made during
implementation (paras. 1.20-1.22) and to local price inflation which was lower
than anticipated when the appraisal estimates were made. The revisions also
were of such a nature that it is not practicable to list the project
components in the cost summaries in the same way as the appraisal forecasts
(paras. 2.12-2.15). Moreover, during the first years of implementation, when
it self financed some of the works, MWSS also decided that these were no
longer part of the project. Bank missions insisted that these components were
still part of the project and that only the source of financing had changed,
to MWSS's credit. By the time MWSS accepted this concept, however, some of
the cost data had become extremely difficult to retrieve and reorganize.
1.26      While Bank staff are satisfied that final cost data on total costs
are reliable, the breakdown between local currency and direct foreign exchange
costs are not. MWSS shows that the total foreign costs equal the amount
disbursed from the loan plus IDC paid by MWSS. Actually, the Bank financed
local currency expenditures totaling P 216.8 million (US$8.22 million), mainly
for civil works for the distribution systems. The problem stems from MWSS
practice of expressing all expenditures as peso costs without noting the
foreign exchange components and the exchange rates in effect when the
expenditures are made, and it is virtually impossible to go back over the
records of the hundreds of contract payments and make the separations.
1.27      Assuming that MWSS financed only local currency costs, the
breakdown between local currency and foreign exchange costs of the completed
project would be approximately as follows:
Final Project Costs
Local    Foreian   Total       Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ millions)                 (Peso millions)
Project    44.90    24.52       69.42     1,368.0      216.8    1,584.8
IDC         ---      12.6 12.65  1265                  313,4       313.4
TOTAL      44.90    37.17       82.07     1,368.0      530.2    1,898.2
1.28      Project Financing  Part III-5d compares the appraisal estimates and
actual sources and amounts of the financing required for the project. Because
of the project revisions and MWSS decisions to finance parts of the project
from its own resources, MWSS had to use Bank financing for only 47s of project
expenditures (compared to the forecast of 71%), and only 43% of the total
financing including IDC (compared to the expected 72%).
1.29      There were no delays or shortfalls in project funds provided from
the local sources to cover the balance of the project financing.
1.30      Loan Allocations and Disbursements  During the project appraisal
stage the Bank approved 75% (cost-sharing) Bank participation in Philippine
social sector projects including those for community water supplies. Thus the



-6-
original allocation of proceeds permitted loan disbursements of up to 70% of
eligible civil works expenditures. In September 1991, to assist the
Philippines during the Middle East crisis, the Bank increased the percentage
of expenditures on civil works that could be financed from the loan to 90%.
1.31      On two occasions MWSS requested cancellations of parts of the loan
amount, totaling US$31.0 million, and reallocation of the balances (paras.
2.2-2.7 and Part III-3a). Another US$2.7 million was canceled when the loan
account was closed on May 19, 1994. The final allocation of proceeds is in
Part III-3b.
1.32      The cumulative estimated and actual loan disbursements are shown in
Part III-3a. Not until 1990 did the actual rate of disbursements equal or
exceed the appraisal forecasts. The actual date when the loan account was
closed (May 19, 1994) was nearly two-and-one-half years later than the
appraisal forecast, but corresponded closely with the country profile for
disbursements on Bank financed Philippine projects in this sector that existed
at the time of appraisal.
Proiect Results
1.33      Physical Results  Because of its nature and the revisions made
during implementation, it not possible to enumerate the physical
accomplishments that can be credited as resulting specifically from the
project (paras. 2.11-2.17). MWSS and Bank staff consider that substantially
all the physical objectives were met or exceeded. The length of pipelines
constructed during the project period and financed in part at least from the
loan and MWSS funds was more than three times the estimated amounts.
Completed service connections, including the carryover from MWSP II, were
about 95% of the target, not counting individual connections in subdivisions
which MWSS serviced through bulk meters.
1.34      The major shortfall was in yard connections in low income areas
(para. 2.16) and in the estimated additional population served by the
increased distribution capacity which was about 70% of the forecast, including
the population in the low income areas (Part III-6a).
1.35       Financial Results   A summary of relevant operational and financial
data from MWSS financial statements for the period from 1985 through to 1993
appears in Part III-6c. The financial results of MWSS are disappointing
principally due to the failure to achieve operating revenue targets. The main
reasons are two-fold: a) failure to reduce NRW, and b) failure to increase
water supply tariffs to the required levels. This is despite the fact that
projected water production and house connections were within 7.5% of target.
The volume of water sold, however, was only 57% of the forecast for 1993.
Over the period from 1985 to 1993, operating revenue was forecast to grow from
P 1,352 million to P 7,545 million, but while there were annual increases in
revenues, these were considerably smaller than forecast, and by 1993 had only
reached P 3,568 million, or 47% of projections.
1.36       For years MWSS has been extremely concerned about the very large
NRW levels but took little action to address the problem directly. In 1983,
however, MWSS embarked on a major program to reduce NRW from 55% in 1985 to
25% by 1993. This was supported by ADB which has made two loans, one in 1983
(paras. 1.5 and 1.11) and a second in 1988. By the end of 1993, the second
project in the program was virtually complete at a cost of over P 2,800



-7-
million, and work to improve administration (customer services, meter reading,
billing & collections etc.) had been on-going throughout the implementation
period. Despite these efforts and the large capital investment, NRW in 1993
was still 57k.
1.37      Average water supply tariffs were forecast to increase from P 3.300
per m3 in 1985 to P 9.800 per m3 by 1993, but by the end of 1993 the average
water tariff had only increased to P 7.305 per m3 (about 25% less than
forecast).
1.38      The failure to reach revenue projections has adversely affected
MWSS's ability to reach its other operational and investment targets.
Operation and maintenance expenditure by 1993 was 48% down on forecast. The
investment program from 1985 through 1993 was reduced from the forecasted P
23,217 million to P 10,119 million. Since 1985, the rate of return targets
have been maintained at over 8% as a requirement of the Loan Agreement; the
lower revenue figures mainly offset by the lower than projected net fixed
assets in operation. The commitment in the Loan Agreement not to incur any
long-term debt unless a debt servicing ratio of at least 1.5 was maintained
was amended to 1.2 by the Bank with the signing of the Loan Agreement for the
Angat Water Supply Optimization Project on November 9, 1989. Capital
investment financed from internal cash generation has been around the 30%
level expected during appraisal.
1.39      Another problem encountered by MWSS is the time taken by customers
to pay their outstanding bills, and in particular government accounts. At the
commencement of the project the average age of outstanding accounts was around
6 months, and by the end of 1993 this had reduced to 4.85 months. Government
debts in 1985 were averaging 6 months sales, and the government made a
commitment to improve this situation. At the end of 1993 these debts were
still high, but had been reduced to 3.5 months average sales.
1.40      Economic Results  The economic results expected from this project,
using the internal financial rate of return (IFRR) as a measure, were
exceptionally high at nearly 40%. The recalculated IFRR based on actual data
is about 17k, which is low by comparison but still good for a project in this
sector (Part III-6b and Annexes 3 and 4). The principal reason for the lower
IFRR is the failure by MWSS to meet the revenue targets.
1.41      Institutional Results  An improved and computerized management
information system was established and is operating satisfactorily. Project
management capabilities also have improved after the transition period
following reorganization. By having the experience of carrying out this
project fairly successfully without consulting engineering support, MWSS
appears to have gained confidence in its ability to efficiently manage
conventional works; the number of recommendations made for improved
specifications and project management procedures demonstrates increased
initiative and sense of participation and responsibility by MWSS staff (paras.
2.35-2.44 and 2.52).
Prolect Sustainabilitv
1.42      The principle risks to achievement and enhancement of the project's
potential benefits would be failures to properly maintain its system and to
make significant progress on the serious NRW problem which, in turn, robs MWSS
of the finances required for efficient operation and maintenance.



-8-
Bank Performance
1.43      The Bank worked closely with MWSS in 1984 when investment
priorities were reviewed and cooperated in the preparation of this project as
a substitute for a project to expand water production capacity (MWS III) which
the Bank had expected to finance (paras. 1.3,1.5 and 2.1). Appraisal and loan
processing proceeded substantially on schedule in spite of the number of
issues to be resolved (Part III-2a and b).
1.44      The records show that the Bank was responsive to MWSS concerns and
supportive of requests for project changes, such as deletions and
substitutions, cancellations of parts of the loan (para. 1.31), extensions of
the loan closing date and the decision not to use consulting services for
assistance with design and project management.  During loan processing, the
Bank increased the allowable limit of project costs which the Bank could
finance to 70 %, and later, during the Gulf Crisis, the limit on financing of
civil works was raised to 90% (para. 1.30 and Part III-2b and 3b).
1.45      Supervision missions were timely, considering Bank staff
constraints, except on a few occasions when local conditions were not
conducive to a productive visit.
Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance
1.46      MWSS performance in carrying out the project was reasonably good as
it continued toward fulfillment of its potential to be an excellent public
utility in spite of the difficulties attendant upon a major reorganization and
management changes. Prompted by experience during the project, MWSS
management took a number of steps to remove bureaucratic obstacles which
hindered procurement and delayed construction (paras. 2.23-2.42).
1.47      MWSS was unable to comply satisfactorily so some covenants in the
project agreement, as noted in Part III-7.  These covenants deal with
financial statements and audit reports, audits of Statements of Expenditure,
annual reviews of tariffs and compliance with agreed timetables for tariff
adjustments.
1.48      The critical problem with NRW which has persisted for at least 30
years was addressed finally through the ADB supported rehabilitation projects.
It is clear from the results, however, that MWSS should be doing much more.
Not only are more rehabilitation works required but also a more urgent and
concentrated effort than MWSS has been making is necessary to locate and
record all elements of it distribution network and service connections, to
crack down on illegal connections and to raise public awareness as to the
costs to the community in general of deteriorated facilities and unregistered
connections.
Performance of Suppliers and Contractors
1.49      As noted in paras. 1.19, and 2.30-2.31, several contractors
abandoned the work or were terminated, mainly for lack of adequate financial
resources. As a result, steps were taken to strengthen qualification
requirements and contract conditions. In addition, the work was sometimes
delayed by the limited capacity of local pipe manufacturers.  Otherwise,
performance of suppliers and contractors was generally satisfactory.



-9-
Project Documentation and Data
1.50      Project documents and data appear to have been appropriate for the
project.  The loan documents did fail to specifically require MWSS to prepare
a project completion report, but MWSS complied with the Bank's request to do
so and prepared an excellent report.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.51      Although revised considerably and reduced in scope, the project
satisfied most of its objectives at a reasonable cost and should be considered
a success. The completion delay of about three years was caused by a change
in MWSS management and a major reorganization of MWSS and the reconfiguration
of the project that resulted. Sustainability of the project is good,
providing that maintenance is adequate and that MWSS makes a more concentrated
effort to reduce the level of NRW which is the main cause of its not reaching
its financial performance potential.
1.52      The principal lessons emerging from the project experience are:
a)   no matter what other improvements and extensions are made to the
MWSS water supply system, reaching MWSS's potential as a viable
public utility organization depends on the success of a
concentrated effort to reduce NRW to levels acceptable for a water
supply utility (paras. 1.8, 1.36, 1.42 and 1.48);
b)   allowing local agencies with adequate capabilities to assume a
larger role in planning and managing a project can pay dividends in
terms of increased initiative and sense of responsibility and
participation by the staff (para. 1.41);
c)   before the beginning of the project, a Bank mission should meet
with the staff directly responsible for carrying out the project
and explain and reach agreement on exactly what is expected in
terms of accounting and reporting on the physical and financial
aspects of the project (paras. 1.25-1.26 and 2.60); and
d)   in project preparation, Bank staff should take more account of the
country disbursement profile when preparing the project timetable
and disbursement forecast (para. 1.32).



-10-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
I/
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Evolution and Implementation of the Project
2.1         Conceptualization  The project arose out of a joint IBRD/MWSS
review of investment priorities in late 1984, taking into account the
country's deteriorating financial condition. A subsequent decision was made
to focus on projects with short gestation periods and maximum returns with the
least investment. The review found that the water sources, treatment plants
and primary distribution system newly completed under the Second Manila Water
Supply Project financed by Loan 1615-PH (MWSP II) could supply approximately
200,000 new connections in addition to the 200,000 expected from MWSP II
itself. Since the projected income from the MWSP II was almost directly
proportional to the number of new connections that could be installed, the
project's internal financial rate of return would be greatly enhanced by
implementing the Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Project (MMWDP)
immediately. Financial projections, also indicated that without MMWDP and the
complimentary rehabilitation project, MWSS would be hard pressed to meet its
increasing debt servicing requirements without water tariff increases or a
massive capital infusion from the national government.
2.2         Changes in Project Content/Financing During Implementation  The
first set of changes in financing was requested in late 1987 and was approved
by the Bank in 1988. This resulted in the cancellation of $21.0 million, the
breakdown of which is shown below:
Original                         New
Category    Allocation   Cancellation   Allocation
($ million)   ($ million)   ($ million)
1.  Civil Works      41.5         10.00             31.5
2.  Goods             8.2           4.00             4.2
3.  Technical         2.3            -               2.3
Assistance &
Training
4.  Interest and      8.00           -               8.00
other Changes
5.  Unallocated       9.00          7.00             2.00
69.00        21.00            48.00
1/ Part II as prepared by MWSS in April 1994 included 11 annexes with
extensive supporting details. All but one of these, Annex 4 in this
report, and references thereto, have been omitted from this report and
the pertinent information from those omitted has been incorporated in
the text and Part III of this report. All the original annexes are
available for reference in Bank files.



-11-
2.3          The cancellation of $10.00 million 'in Category I was for the
portion of the new works which MWSS decided to finance with local funds.
These were contract packages ready for implementation before the loan became
effective on 22 August 1966. The $4.00 million canceled in Category 2 was for
the estimated cost of the mainframe computer. It was decided that this would
be procured only after the plan for an Integrated Management Information
System was developed which was estimated then to take until 1990. To minimize
commitment fees it was decided that the corresponding loan fund be canceled.
2.4          The amount of $7.00 million canceled under Category 5 was the sum
of the reduction in the estimated amount to finance the remaining works of
MWSP II and the estimated foreign portion of the cost to finance the works
which were taken over from the original contractors and to be financed from
local funds. The reduction in cost estimate for the completion of MWSP II was
a result of the improved economic climate in 1987 compared to the uncertain
economic climate in 1985 when the projections for contingencies and price
escalation were made.
2.5          The second set of changes was requested in January 1989 and
approved by the Bank on 08 March 1989 to effect the cancellation of $10.00
million, the breakdown of which is shown below:
Amount after
First
Category   Re-Allocation   Cancellation   Allocation
($ million)  ($ million)    ($ million)
1.  Civil Works       31.5          3.107          28.393
2.  Goods              4.2                           4.200
3.  Technical
Assistance &
Training           2.3          1.45            0.850
4.  Interest and
Other Changes      8.0          5.443           2.557
5.  Unallocated        2.0                           2.000
TOTALS       48.0         10.000          38.000
2.6          The cancellation of $3.107 m in Category I was for the cost of
civil works contracts scheduled for implementation by the Angat Water Supply
Optimization Project (within the distribution system financed by ADB). The
cancellation of $1.45nm in Category 3 was based on the current estimate of
$0.85 m which included the payment for consulting services for MWSP II.
2.7          The cancellation of $5.443 m in Category 4 was resorted to as a
precaution to paying interest and foreign exchange differential cost on
interest payments throughout the maturity of the loan.
2.8          A third set of changes was requested in late 1992 to make use of
an estimated $3 m loan surplus to construct additional water mains, upgrade
the existing Pasay Pumping Station to deliver water to Cavite City through the
newly constructed primary water main along the Manila-Cavite Coastal Road, and
to buy additional water meters. The savings could be attributed to the
stringent control system employed by the Project Management Team and the
non-engagement of consultants in all phases of the project. The additional
contract packages for water mains were the following:
Contract      Contract        Contract         Actual
No.        Estimate         Amount            Cost
(P million)   (P million)       (P million)
DP-WME-l        53.21          39.95            50.745
DP-WME-2         6.50           3.53             6.587
TOTALS          59.71          43.48            56.332



-12-
2.9          The 4th set of changes was decided in mid-1993 with the addition
of the following contract packages.
Contract No.      Contract Amount
(P million)
DP-38                 9.624
DP-89                 3.795
DP-52R                2.900
DP-63R                5.243
SWT-1                 8.500
TOTAL                30.062
Contract Nos. DP-88 and DP-89 were for additional water mains while DP-52R was
for completion of the remaining works in DP-52 which was terminated for
failure of the contractor to finish the work. DP-63R was for completion of
works deleted in DP-63 because of restrictions imposed by DPWH while Ortigas
Avenue was being widened. Contract No.SWT (Supply of Water Tankers) was to
replace the procurement of water meters for which bid documents could not be
finalized because of complaints filed against the committee who prepared the
specifications. These meters were then purchased under another MWSS project.
2.10         Other changes made without formal request include the following:
1) The original plan under Part B of the project to install individual
service connections and meters to about 15,000 households in about 72
existing subdivisions' distribution networks was not pursued because
they were implemented under a different Project Management Office with
funds from internal cash generations. MWSS decided then to bill the
subdivisions' homeowners based on the readings from the master meters at
the entrance of each subdivision;
2) Although not explicitly enumerated as part of the Project, the
replacement of 28 inoperable existing valves was added in line with the
general objective to improve the operational efficiency of the system;
3) Under Part D, the plan to install yard connections in about 160 low
income areas to serve about 70,000 poor households could be implemented
only in a few areas with defined rights-of-way;
4) Part F for drilling and equipping about 5 deep wells including
pumps, storage reservoirs and improvement to the distribution system was
canceled as part of this project and a separate Project Management Team
was created to handle Ground Water Supply Projects; and
5) Under Part G (Institutional Support and Development), the following
changes were made:
(a) On the provision of consulting services:
(i) No consultants were hired for implementation of new
works. The major disbursement under this part was for the
consulting services under MWSP II;
(ii) Only 12 local man-months were used for the Integrated
Program for Revenue improvement; and
(iii) No consultants were hired for the updating of
engineering and financial studies and installing seismic
monitoring systems at Laiban for the preparation of proposed
future projects. Geo-resistivity equipment for use in
seismic monitoring systems at Laiban was procured at a cost
of P 295,000. When the Laiban Dam Project was deferred in
favor of the Angat Water Supply Optimization Project, the
engineering and financial studies were likewise deferred;



-13-
(b) On improving operational performance through acquisition of
vehicles, 79 vehicles were purchased, but motorcycles were not
purchased;
(c) The upgrading of customer records, billing, accounting, and
engineering was not implemented under this Project but a separate
Project Team was created to implement the MWSS Information System
Plan which includes the handling of customer records, billing,
accounting, engineering, etc.. Instead of the mainframe, 74 units
of microcomputers were purchased;
(d) In the actual training program implemented by MWSS under this
project, there were 302 participants who received 1160 hours of
training at a total cost of P 1.0 million; and
(e) Aerial photography to verify and improve customer records and
assist in the detection of illegal connections was not undertaken
as it was seen not effective. An alternative Geographic
Information System is now being worked out under the MWSS
Information System Plan.
Comparative Analysis
2.11         Physical Accomplishment under Part A  While it was indicated under
Part A of the Description of the Project (Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement)
that part of the ongoing works under Loan 1615 of MWSP II consisting of 11 km
of bulk water supply mains, about 17 km of primary, secondary, and tertiary
networks, and 100,000 metered house service connections will be installed and
financed under Loan 2676 upon the exhaustion of the former, the accounting of
the physical accomplishments under the new loan may not be practicable given
the following background.
2.12         During project appraisal, it was difficult to identify and fix
which of the completed and remaining works under MWSP II could be paid under
Loan 1615 and which would be carried over to Loan 2676 because to have done so
would have removed the flexibility of accelerating the disbursement under the
old loan. It was decided that disbursement under the new loan should not be
made until the old loan was consumed. At that time it was difficult to
determine which contractor's billing would come first. Even long after the
effective date of the new loan on 22 August 1986, reimbursements were still
being made under the old loan to consume the remaining balance. What makes
the accounting of the lengths of pipes paid under the new loan difficult is
the fact that the disbursements made under it were for the last billings which
were primarily for price escalation, variation orders for underground
obstructions and other differing site conditions, surface restoration and
release of retention monies. Payments are still on-going due to court cases
with contractors.
2.13         The lengths of pipelines laid from January 1986 until completion
were approximately as follows:
Primary Mains      ________  10.8 km
Secondary Mains _-_-______-14.1 km
Tertiary Mains   __________  9.6 km
TOTAL    34.5 kms.
As to which portion of these pipeline were paid under the old and which under
the new loan and which are funded purely from local funds can no longer be
verified. Also there were service connections which were installed prior to
the effectiveness of the new loan but were hooked up or metered after the
effectiveness of the loan until December 1993. As to whether these were paid
under the new loan could no longer be determined.



-14-
2.14        There were other new connections for walk-in applicants which were
tapped to the lines constructed under MWSP II but no data are readily
available from the Customers' Service Area which is responsible for making
such connections. A rough estimate of the breakdown by ratio and proportion
with the length of pipelines before and after MWSP II is shown below.
Table 1 - No. of Service Connections - Part A
Estimated      I                        ESTIMATED ACTUAL
SAR         I------------------------------------------------------------
I                    Direct            Indirect           Total
109,400        MWSP II               40,842           81,011           121,853
100,000       MMWDP                  34,273           12,019           46,292
0       Self-financed                                            29,649
TOTAL                                                                 197,794
2.15        Physical Accomplishments Under Parts B. C. D, E, & 6   As stated
above, all the contract packages identified during project appraisal under
Parts B and C and four(4) under Part D were implemented before loan
effectiveness and were financed from MWSS internal cash generation. When the
loan became effective and after deciding that the project would be continued,
new contract packages were identified to replace those already implemented,
this time with no distinction as to whether they belonged under Part B, C, or
D. The reporting therefore of the physical accomplishment was not by parts as
shown in the project description but for all three parts together. The
comparison of accomplishments versus planned figures are shown in the
following tables and in Annex 5.
Table 2 - Comparison of Length of Pipelines Laid
Length in Kilometer
as of    : Projected        : Feasibility
Classification               Dec.1993  :upon completion :    Study
1. Self-Financed (Parts B, C, and D)
Primary (300 mm &  over):        24.5  :       24.5
Secondary  (150-250 mm) :        45.4  :       45.4
Tertiary (50-100 mm)             93.2         93.2
Sub-total          163.1  :    163.1
II. IBRD Financed  (Parts B, C, and D) (1987-1993)
Primary                   :      63.63 :      68.49               17
Secondary                 :     125.10 :    127.00         :      64
Tertiary                  :     343.22 :    350.52               139
Sub-total    :     531.95 :    546.01         :     220
Total of I & II
Primary                   :      88.13 :    92.29          :      17
Secondary                 :     170.50 :   172.40          :      64
Tertiary                  :     436.42 :   443.72                139
Grand Total   :      695.05 :   709.11          :     220



-15-
Table 3 - NO. OF HOUSE SERVICE CONNECTIONS GENERATED
VS. TARGET FOR EACH PART
I               I              ACTUAL
COMPONENTS  I FEASIBILITY  I
I    STUDY      I  DIRECT  I  INDIRECT I   TOTAL
1/          2/
PART   B    1      15,600          --         15,600       15,600
PART   C    1      13,500       44,836        11,152       55,988
PART   D    1      70,000        3,486           867        4,353
GRAND TOTAL I      99,000       48,322       27,619        75,941
1/    Not included in the count of registered house service
connections since they are in private subdivisions for
which water supply charges are based on consumption determined by
the main meter for the each subdivision.
2.16         Table 2 shows that the total length of pipelines laid is more than
three times the length measured during the feasibility study. The total
number of new individual house service connections generated directly by the
project is only 48.32% of the projected number as shown in Table 3. This big
discrepancy between the actual and projected number of house service
connections could be attributed to the following:
(1)  From Table 3, it will be noted that 70X. of the projected 99,100
service connections was for yard connections to be installed in blighted
areas (Part D). This part of the project was not fully implemented for
lack of well defined rights-of-way; and
(2) The change in policy during 1988 with regards to the
installation of service connections from free to
costs-charged-to-applicants. It is possible that those who cannot
afford to pay the cost of service connection eventually got their
service connections through illegal means.
2.17         The direct connections shown from 1986 to 1993 are those made
during the construction period while the indirect refers to those connected
for walk-in applicants after the construction period. The latter was
estimated proportionately with the length of pipelines laid under each
respective project because no useful data is available from Customers' Service
Area which is in charge of making the connections.
2.18         Project Cost and Annual Disbursement   The actual project costs
compared with the appraisal estimates are shown in Part III-Sb and 5c. The
big discrepancies between the actual costs and the appraisal estimates are
primarily due to the changes made during the implementation as described in
paras. 2.2-2.10.
2.19         Projects Internal Financial Rate of Return   Computation of the
internal financial rate of return (IFRR) for the project is shown in Annex 3.
The IFRR of the project computed at current prices is 17.4% compared to 39.84%
which was computed during appraisal.



-16-
CAUSES OF DELAYS
Internal:
2.20        The revolutionary government installed in February 1986 appointed
a new MWSS Administrator and consequently reviews of investment priorities
were then made. An internal debate then ensued on whether to continue or to
stop project implementation. Not until April 1987 was it decided that the
Project was to be pursued. Consequently there was the delay in identifying
new projects to replace those which were decided by the previous
Administration to be implemented in advance of effectiveness of the new loan
using local funds.
2.21        The change in priorities of the project (resulting from  the
advance implementation of the parts which were the basis of project appraisal)
and the fact that about 95% of 70% of the project (Part D) in terms of house
service connection target could not be implemented due to right-of-way
problems, made it necessary to identify new project areas. In the process of
looking for new areas, it was found out that the only attractive areas were
subdivisions with no existing reticulation systems and some with reticulation
but which would not qualify for interconnection because of sub-standard
materials and workmanship. Resolution of policy issues then arose as to
whether it was proper for MWSS to install pipelines in private subdivisions.
It took about a year before this issue was resDlved but with no written clear
cut policy because of the complexities involved as regards disbursement of
public funds, and the turn-over of subdivisions' road network to local
government units.
2.22        The implementation of additional contract packages for the
construction of water mains to make use of the estimated surplus of the loan.
also caused the extension of the project duration.
External
2.23         Delay in the Issuance of Excavation Permits   Contractors could
not proceed immediately upon issuance of Notices-to-Proceed (NTP) because of
the delay in the issuance of excavation permits by some local government units
who require cash bonds for restoration works. Various efforts were exerted by
Management to solve this problem but it did not help much.
2.24        Contract Review by Office of Government Corporate Counsel (OGCC)
Until 1989, all contracts were required to be reviewed by (OGCC). With the
representation made by MWSS Management, through the initiative of the Project
Management, the review was facilitated by delegation to the MWSS Legal
Department of the authority of reviewing contracts up to P 20 million since
pro-forma contracts which were reviewed and approved by OGCC prior to printing
were being used.
2.25        Approval of Contracts by MWSS Board   There is a need to review
the present pnlicy of approving contracts by the MWSS Board of Trustees after
the award has been approved by the same body. Suggestions was made by the
Project Management that since a standard form of contract previously approved
by OGCC was being used and the data used in filling-up the blank spaces in the
pro-forma contract were based on the previous approval of the Board for the
award of a given contract, the Administrator could be authorized to enter into
contract based on awards approved by the Board of Trustees.
2.26        Delay in Contract Review by the Commission on Audit (COA)   The
first few contract packages were also delayed due to the required contract
review by the Commission on Audit. The representation made by the MWSS
Management through the initiative of the Project Management was instrumental
in the changing the audit system, from pre-audit to post-audit.



-17-
2.27         Insufficient capacity of local foundries   The inability of local
foundries to cope with the simultaneous orders from various MWSS contractors
in its various projects with the rehabilitation projects and this Project also
contributed to the delay in project implementation.
2.28        Right-of-Way Problems    Subdivision homeowners who are not direct
beneficiaries of some pipelines leading to other subdivision or who are afraid
that the supply to their subdivision might be reduced if connection or
extensions are made from the existing main, normally opposed the construction
of such pipelines, thus resulting in the delay or the deletion of such
pipelines.
Contractors' FinancinQ Problems
2.29        Very low bid prices   There were 13 contracts which were not
completed by contractors mainly because of the low bid prices and consequent
lack of interest to finish the project.
2.30         Price Escalation Formulae not Reflective of Price Increase   The
low bid prices coupled with the fact that price escalation formulae were not
reflective of the price increases contributed to the contractors' financing
problems. Through the initiative of the Project Management, a separate
formula for PVC pipes was approved by the MWSS Board of Trustees in Board Res.
No. 135-88 dated 27 July 1988. The matter was also brought to the attention
of National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) which issued new formulae.
2.31        Lax Criteria for Determining Contracting Capacity   The formula
for determining the contracting capacity of contractors as provided for in the
old Implementing Rules and Regulation (IRR) of PD 1594 allowed contractors
with low financing or credit facilities to be awarded too many contracts.
This problem was brought to the attention of NEDA in March 1988, and the IRR
was subsequently revised to specify credit line as a measure of contracting
capacity.
MWSS Internal Problems
2.32         Inadequate base maps   The coverage of available maps and record
drawing was then limited (i.e. some subdivisions, streets, or alleys,
especially the unserved ones are not indicated). This inadequacy in our maps
made the identification of new project areas longer. This problem is now
partially solved with the creation of a new unit in Planning and Programming
Department which is in charge of mapping and data base management.
2.33        Transition to Centralization of Enaineering Functions   In early
1987, all engineering functions including tendering were centralized under the
Engineering Area. Consequently, problems ranging from lack of office supplies
for reproducing contract documents to lack of personnel contributed to the
delay in tendering.
2.34        Delays in Processing Progress Billing and Variation Order   To a
certain degree the progress of the work was affected by delays in processing
progress billings and variation orders. This was solved with the issuance in
late 1988 of Memorandum Circular No. 742-A (which set the guidelines in
processing of claims for infrastructure projects) and another set of
guidelines for processing variation orders in early 1988.



-18-
LESSONS AND IMPROVEMENTS
Feasibility Study
2.35        Determination of Project Cost and Benefits   While the length of
pipelines used in the estimate of project cost under Parts B and C of the new
works were based on maps and drawings with a scale of 1:4000 for tertiary main
and 1:500 for secondary and primary mains, for lack of time the estimates for
Part D (Blighted Areas) were based on population density and land areas
obtained from the National Housing Authority. It turned out, however, that
the installation of water mains in most of the identified blighted areas is
not feasible due to lack of rights-of-way and/or roadways.
2.36         This makes the targeted service connections for the entire new
works off by about 52%. Also since the lengths of pipelines for this part
were ballpark figures based on population density, the error was also very
big. All these discrepancies point to the following lessons in preparing
feasibility studies for water supply distribution projects:
(1) Estimates of length of pipelines must be based on maps/drawings
with scale of at least 1:2000.
(2) Estimates on the number of service connection to be generated should
be based on updated street-by-street census and not on ballpark figures
based on population density.-
(3) For item I and 2 above to be made possible/available, the water
agency should have a continuing updating on a yearly basis of its base
maps and data bank on prospective customers on a street by street basis.
2.37         The need to Calibrate Hydraulic Network Model   The need to
calibrate hydraulic network models at least yearly for planning and design
purposes was demonstrated in this project, especially for the southern part of
the distribution system where extensions were made based on simulations using
the model which was not calibrated to reflect the current demand pattern and
the performance of the existing facilities. The absence of such calibration
did not enable the designers to detect what is being reported now as the
inadequacy of MWSP II transmission lines to fill up the Fort Bonifacio
Reservoir, thus the extensions to the south could not be commissioned, not for
lack of water but because of bottle necks in the transmission lines.
Detailed Engineering
2.38        Accuracy of Surveys. Drawings and Quantifications   For tertiary
mains, the degree of accuracy of the survey employed in this project is higher
than in MWSP II in the sense that survey instruments were used and survey data
were plotted to a scale of 1:500, while in MWSP II drawings were based on
aerial photographs which were enlarged to a scale of 1:4000. The accurate
survey drawings, in turn, made the plotting of the alignments of the pipelines
more accurate and with accurate pipeline alignments, the estimation of bid
quantities were more accurate than in previous projects. The accuracy of the
estimates could have been improved had the street-by-street quantification
been made in standard forms with signatures of estimators and supervisors for
future reference.
2.39         Improvements Made Towards Economical Design/Construction
(1) To make durable and stronger pipe materials such as gray
cast/ductile iron competitive with other materials, ordinary native
materials were allowed to be used as backfill for the pipe zone.
However, the result of public bidding proved that such measure is not
sufficient to make durable materials competitive. Statistical data
should be gathered so that the economic life can be considered in the
evaluation of bids.



-19-
(2) The meter boxes, curb stops and curb stop boxes which were used in
MWSP II were no longer used in this project.
(3) Sand bedding was no longer required in sandy soil.
(4) Backfill in unpaved roads not subject to traffic loads was no
longer subject to field density tests.
2.40         Tendering and Awarding   From  the results of the bidding it was
gathered that durable pipe materials cannot compete with less durable
materials unless replacement cost are considered in the evaluation of bids
(para. 2.39).
2.41         Of 21 contract packages which were terminated for failure of the
contractor to finish, 16 had very low bid prices, below 70% of the government
estimate (para. 2.29).
2.42        Contract Management/Construction Supervision   The introduction
into the joint measurement team of a third party from an independent control
unit to witness the measurement of work accomplishment, which in other
projects is done only by the contractor and the full time field engineer,
proved to be an effective control measure in preventing delays and errors or
overstatement of contractor's accomplishment. The simultaneous computation of
payable quantities based on common source documents, (the "joint measurement
data sheets"), allowed the validation of computed quantities long before the
receipt of contractor billing. Also, the custody of the original joint
measurement data sheets bearing the signatures of the measurement team was
assigned to a central records unit thus preventing any alterations and serving
as deterrent for the over-statement of measurements because responsible
persons can be easily identified.
2.43         Some provisions of the contract documents were found to be lacking
in details, thereby causing delay in decision making. Others were found to be
unnecessarily rigid. The necessary improvements were already in the new
bidding documents to be used in Angat Water Supply Optimization Project.
Among the improvements made were:
(1) A clearer set of guidelines on how to determine the time extensions
to which contractors are entitled;
(2) A set of guidelines on how to revise the Contract S-curve for the
purpose of computing prices escalation and slippage;
(3) A set of guidelines on how the contractors' accomplishment will be
valued in case of termination;
(4) A new provision that will prevent contractors from capitalizing the
time required in negotiating the price to be adopted in a variation
order in requesting for time extensions; and
(5) A clearer provisions on how progress billings should be prepared
and how payment will be made.



-20-
2.44        Lessons from Construction   Several lessons were learned from the
construction phase. Some of which were recurrences from the previous project
(MWSP II). From the start to completion or termination of a contract, most of
the contracts have incurred delays and variations in the final cost. If the
following recommendations are to be considered in the MWSS policy in the
construction phase of the contracts, improvements in future projects will be
attained.
(1) The contract agreement regarding the purchase of materials (whether
local or imported) upon signing of contractor of the contract award
should be strictly implemented and monitored by the project management.
This undertaking will alleviate if not eliminate the delay in the
manufacture and delivery of materials which retards the momentum of the
project activities.
(2) Upon the signing of the notice of award to the contractor, the
project management should assist the contractor in the application of
excavation permit by coordinating with the local officials concerned.
(3) There should be 2 sets of contract time which will consider the
season wherein the contract will be covered. The first set should
consider the rainy months in July until September and the after effect
of the rains; and the second set would be the ideal time for the
contract not affected by the expected rainy season. In both sets
however, the social environment where the project is located should also
be considered.
(4) The project management should not rely on the response of the
private companies and other government offices involved with underground
facilities to the notice given to them about the project contract.
After the bidding of the water main construction contract, the Resident
Engineer concerned should initiate the follow-up on the notices to
assess the extent of obstructions for the future construction. This
will shorten the processing of variation orders which will eventually
avoid the delay in the overall completion of the project.
(5) The issue on the Right-of-Way (ROW) problem is another factor of
delay. During the tendering of contract documents, a follow-up
reconnaissance survey should be undertaken to obtain a final assessment
on water mains to be constructed on private properties. A delay in the
contract completion is inevitable if the ROW problem will only e tackled
when the construction is already on the questionable location.
(6) With the start of the new contracts on major traffic congested
roads, construction activities are only allowed during nighttime when
vehicular traffic is low. In future projects of similar conditions, the
contract time should consider the efficiency of worker as lower than the
normal daytime efficiency thus the contract time should also be
flexible.
(7) With regards to the involvement of the Operations Area and other
MWSS offices, a permanent representative should be assigned with the
project office in order to witness the activities in accordance with the
prevailing MWSS operating procedures. There were several scheduled
interconnections which were deferred because of the absence of the
representative from the Operations Area. At times when the activity
cannot be postponed further and were continued without the said
representative, petty crimes of corruption happen in order for the
absent representative to certify the activity.
(8) Delays in conducting the required tests happen because of inadequate
quantity of testing apparatus and equipments. Experience showed that
many of the apparatus and equipments went out of order and beyond repair
hence replacements are essential.



-21-
(9) A decisive logistic support should also be given to the inspection
personnel. Adequate vehicles and appropriate rationing of gasoline are
necessary to facilitate an extensive monitoring of activities in areas
far from the main office. Contractors' activities are deferred,
specially in pipe laying, when the assigned inspector is not present.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
2.45         The project was started at a time when the system-wide
reorganization of MWSS was being made in 1985 and when the revolutionary
government was installed in February 1986.   Therefore, the MWSS performance
in the preparation and implementation of the project was greatly affected by
the aberration during the transition period.
2.46         One major change made during the reorganization is the
centralization of all major functions. All planning and design works were
placed under the Engineering Area. All budgeting, accounting, internal audit,
and treasury were placed under the Finance Area. Before the reorganization,
there was an Office for Special Projects which had all the functions required
to plan, design, tender, and administer the construction of projects. Now and
during project implementation, planning, designing and tendering are handled
by Engineering Area; contracting is handled by the Legal Department;
accounting, budgeting and internal control are handled by Finance Area. Under
the new set up, the Project Manager has the problem of coordination and of
getting the desired results from other departments of MWSS. This problem was
compounded during the change in administration in 1986. It was only in
mid-1987 that government operations started gaining momentum.
2.47         Feasibility Study   The feasibility study was undertaken in barely
three (3) months by an in-house team created under Office Order No.4399.
Given the very short time to undertake preliminary surveys and designs and to
conduct census on the prospective customers, it could not be expected that the
accuracy could be better than in previous projects.
2.48         It may be pointed out though that the discrepancy in house service
connection projections, is just the same as in previous project. As pointed
out in para. 2.35, it would be a good practice if MWSS will have a continuing
activity to update road maps and utility maps including data on surface and
sub-surface conditions, prospective customers, etc. so that anytime a
feasibility study is to be made, the data can be readily made available.
2.49         Detailed Engineering   The detailed engineering was conducted also
by an in-house team with a manpower complement of 110 without the assistance
of consultants. Except for the contract packages where some pipelines could
not be laid due to difficulty in securing excavation permits, the statistical
data on discrepancies between estimated quantities as indicated in the bid
forms and thp actual field requirements are within the allowable physical
contingency allowance.
2.50         Tendering, Awarding and Contracting   This phase of the project
was greatly affected by the centralization of all tendering works for
infrastructure projects in the Engineering Area, without the appropriate
manpower and equipment complement. This cause of delay was compounded by the
additional requirements of the Board of Trustees for awards and contract
approval to be coursed through each member of the Board Committee before a
proposal for award or approval of contract could be calendared for Board
discussion.
2.51        Contract Management/Supervision   The management of the contracts
and the supervision of construction works were also handled by a project
management team without the assistance of consultants.



-22-
2.52        As discussed in paras. 2.42 and 2.43, there were improvements made
in this phase of the work which made the quantifications of contractors'
accomplishment accurate and the processing of progress billing within the
Project Management Team faster than what could had been the rate without the
simultaneous checking by an independent control unit. However, the
performance of the present organizational set up in terms of speed in
processing progress billings and other contract matters is below that of the
previous set-up because of the added internal control provided by the Finance
Area , which before was contained in the Project Management Team itself.
2.53        ComPliance with Loan Covenants   Loan covenants relating to the
physical implementation of the Project, including local cost financing, have
been satisfactorily complied with. The significant points of deviation were on
the non-achievement of the desired level- of non-revenue water and the delay
in the implementation of the project. A summary of compliance with major loan
covenants is given in Annex 4.
BANK'S PERFORMANCE
2.55        Project Aopraisal   The performance of the Bank mission who
undertook the project appraisal was satisfactory. It took the best efforts to
verify in the field the project sites and to verify the veracity of data and
information supplied by the Project Feasibility Study Team.
2.57        Approval of the Tender Documents and Contract Award   The
performance of the Bank with regard to the approval of the tender documents,
contract awards, disbursements was fully satisfactory except for a few mis-
communications.
2.58        Review Missions   Review missions visited the Project during the
period of implementation. Bank staff maintained a close dialogue with senior
management of the MWSS on the need to improve operational efficiency and to
reduce non-revenue water. The Bank Mission responded adequately to the
financial/economic crisis during the 1991 Middle East Conflict by increasing
Banks  financing for civil works from 70% to 90% of eligible disbursements.
It was also supportive of MWSS' request to extend the loan closing date from
end of 1991 to end of 1992 and then to end of 1993 after finding out that
there would be substantial surplus of the loan.
2.59        Completion Report Mission   Although the mission for the
preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR) visited the MwSS on April
1994, the review missions of September 1993 already gave MWSS staff the
guidelines for preparing PCR so that an initial draft was made available
during the visit.
2.60        The gathering of the data relevant to the preparation of the PCR
could have been made easier had there been a Project Launching Mission where
senior officials of MWSS outside the Project Management Office could have been
oriented on the major loan covenants and the necessary data gathering that
their respective offices were supposed to undertake.



- 23 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2676-PH)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Title                 PurPose            Approved    Status           Cocmment
Manila Water         An interim project to    07/64         Complete   Implementation not
Supply Project       expand and improve                                 satisfactory in
(Ln. 386-PH)         the water supply                                  some respects4
system of the Manila                              i ncluding inability
Metropclitan Area.                               of responsible agency
to satisfy covenants
on operaticns and
fiinancial
performance.
Second Manila        Water supply for          07/25/78   Complete   Carried out by
Water Supply         Metropolitan Manila.                   12/86      MWSS. Some works
Project (MWSP-II)                                           (F'CR No.   ncot completed
(Ln. 1615-PH)                                               7153)      because cf ccst
overruns were
i nccILided in the
Metropolitan
Manila Water
Distriibution
Froject.
Manila Sewerage       Improvement of            03/20/80   Complete   Carried out by
and Sanitation       environmental                          12/89      MWSS.  F'roject in-
Project              sanitation in                          (PCR No.   cluded design of
(Ln. 1814-PH)        Metropolitan Manila                    8779)      future water
including develop-                               supply projects
ment of institutional                             and some con-
capacity for managing                             struction of water
sewerage and sani-                               supply facilities.
tat icon .
Angat Water          Construction of            10/05/89   Ongoing.   Carried out by
Supply               water transmission,                   Closing    MWSS. Project
Optimization         treatment and                         date of    complements and
Pi-oject             distribution                           12/31/95      expands on work
(Ln. 3124-PH)        facilities and                        may be      carried out on
improvement cf MWSS                  advanced   Metropolitan
operations and                        tc 12/94.  Manila Water
finances.                                        Distributionii
FPrcjec t.



- 24 -
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised
a) Project Timetable
Activity/                     Date                Date                Date
Event                    Flanned             Revised               Actual
P-oject Identification                  --                  --                09/84
Preappraisal Mission                                                          11/84
Appraisal Mission                     :16/85               04/85             04/05/85
Negotiations                         0;1/B6                12/85
01/86           01/23-25/86
Board Approval                       03/86                 (':2/86
033/86
04/86            04/0:3/86
Loan/Credit Signature                   --                                  04/1(/86
Loan Effectiveness                  07/09/86              08/08/86
09/08/86          08/22/86
Closing Date                         12/31/91             12/31/92
12/31/93          12/31/93
Final Disbursement                                          --              05/19/94
Project Completion                  12/31/90                --               12/31/93
b) Issues Raised  (Preappraisal through Board Presentation)
Identification/Preappraisal Stage:  (08/84 - 03/85)
MWSS borrowing and equity limits Lnder its charter:  MWSS had nearly
reached limits for borr-owing and GOP equity contributions allowed unlder its
charter-, requiring that GOP must amend charter to' raise those limits.
Initiating Project Brief recommended this to be a condition for
negotiations.  E;xecutive or-der amending charter was signed 11/12/85 and did
increase MWSS capitalization (from P3 billion to FB billion) but did not
increase limits on borrowing.  SubseqLently, limit cn borrowing was n-ot
considered a problem ansd was dropped as an issue.
Availability of couunter-par-t funds:  MWS:S's ability  to self-finance
development was substantially curtailed because it carr-ied foreign exchange
risis on GOP's foreign loans passed or to MWSS.  Also, in 1984 GOF had
lifted MWSS's exemption from  taxes. Therefore, GOP and MWSS undertakings
were required that counterpart funds necessary for this pro ject, as well as
fcr specific related ongoing pro jects, woLild be available as needed.  The
Initiating Project Brief recommended this as a cc.ndition for negotiations.
Subsequently, the required GOP 198J eqLtity contributions were released, and
by negotiaticns (in January 1986) 85%M. of the 1986 requirements had been
released and the 1987 GOF contribution had been approved in priniciple.



- 25 -
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised (CContinued)
b) Issues Raised (Preappraisal through Board Presentation)
Identification/Preappraisal Stage: (continued)
Over-staffing, low productivity and weak management cn new service
connections:  This was a longstanding problem which MWSS did little to
solve.  During 1985. however, a major reorganization cf MWSB was initiated
with the approval cf the President, and this included particular focus on
improving revenue generation.  In addition, the pro ject included provisicn
of consulting services to assist MWSS with an integrated action prcgram  to
achieve, inter alia, ser-vice connection targets.
Appraisal Stage:  (04/85 - i)5/85)
Banlk's current limit of 60% financing of Philippine projects:  Recent CPP,
which would allow increase up to 75%, would resolve this issue if approved
fcr this project, however.  The 75% financing was approved during the post-
appraisal "Decision Meeting": the Operations Pc licy Sub-committee had
appr-oved 75% (cost-shar-inig) Bank participation in Philippine social sector
projects and the Decisioni Meeting agreed that community water supply is in
the social sector.
Need for retroactive financing for expenditures in 1985:  Required
particularly because project would include completion of components of an
ongoing Bank financed project (MWS II).  Because of a difference of opinlioIn
among Bank staff as to whether MWS II contracts should be retroactively
financed frc'm this loan, the Decisicn Meeting agreed to defer this issue
until negotiations when contract details would be available.  As approved,
about 35% of the loan for this project was intended for contracts awarded
under MWS II and scheduled for completicn in 1987, but nc withdrawals were
allowed in respect of payments made prior the date of the loan agreement.
MWSS inability to satisfy current rate-of-return (ROR) covenant (Loan 1615-
PH) uLItil at least 1990:  Decision Meeting agreed that proposed revised ROR
covenant (6% through 1988, 7% for 1989 and 8% thereafter) for MWSS would be
acceptable.  These revised requirements were incorporated in the loan
documents.
Post-Appraisal: (06/85 - 10/85)
Whether project to be processed as supplemental loan fcr MWS II (Loar, 1615-
PH) or as a new project: Decision meeting agreed that it would be treated
as a new operation since it would fccus on continuing support of an cverall
development program. Its supplemental aspect would be clearly defined,
however, together with supporting figures showing percent of new loan which
would be supplemental.  This reqLuirement was satisfied in the SAR and
President's Report.



- 26 -
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised (Continued)
b) Issues Raised (Preappraisal through Board Presentation)
Post-Appraisal: (Continued)
MWSS progress on parallel programs critical to success of this project:
Decision Meeting agreed that following GOP approval of proposed MWSS
reorganization, action plans for, (a) establishment and staffing of an MWSS
unit to focus on revenue generation5 and (b) implementation of a
rehabilitation project financed by ADB, wculd be formulated and
implementation of the action plans wculd have started as a condition for
loan negotiations.  At the Yellow Cover Review meeting it was agreed that
timely implementation of the ADB-assisted rehabilitation project wouldl be
covered by a covenant in the Project Agreement between MWSS and the Bankq
subject to consultation with ADB.  The MWSS unit to focus on revenue
generation was established prior- to negotiations.  The action program for
the ADB project was reviewed during negotiations, agreement was reached on
the time schedule and a covenant in the Project Agreement provided for an
annual review of progr-ess with the Bank.
Man_agement Review: (11/85 - 12/85)
Problem with arrear-s owed to MWSS for water supply to government agencies:
At Loan Ccmmittee review, request was made to require GOP to pay arrears as
condition for Boar-d Presentation or Lcan Effectiveness and to keep future
payments current. If this not feasible, then payment schedule for arrears
and future payments should be agreed.  During negotiations an action plan
was agreed.  This wJas recorded in the Minutes of Negotiations and a
provision added in the Loan Agreement (Section 4.01).
Negotiations:  (01/86)
No major issues developed during negotiations.
Board Presentation:  (04/03/86)
No issues were raised during Board consideration, but there were questions
about the sanitation situation in Manila and the lack of a sewerage
component in the project.  Staff respcnse acknowledged regret that sewerage
improvement could not be included because of MWSS and government financial
constraints. Staff was satisfied, however, that for the requirements of
this water distribution project, sewerage was adequate for the moment.



- 27 -
3. Loan Disbursements
a) Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US $ ' 000)
IBRD FY                Appraisal                        Actual
and Semester             Estimate                                 % of Appraisal
Ending                 Amount                Amount               Estimate
1986
12/31/85                     --
06/30/86                    4.9                   --                     --
1987
12/31/86                   14.6                 4.24                    29%
06/30/87                   25.5                 7.86                    31%
1988
12/31/87                   36.7                10.81                    29%
06/30/88                   45.6                12.66                    28%
1989
12/31/88                   52.1                14.56                    28%
06/30/89                   58.0                14.81                    26%
1990
12/31/89                   63.8                17.59                    28%
06/30/90                   66.1                20.86                    32%
1991
12/31/90                   68.0                22.07                    32%
06/30/91                   69.0                26.75                    39%
1992
12/31/91                   69.0                28.12                    41%
06/30/92                   69.0                28.71                    42%
1993
12/31/92                   69.0                30.52                    44/.
06/30/93                   69.0                32.77                    47%
1994
12/31/93                   69.0                34.10                    49%
05/19/94                   69.0                35.30                    51%
Cancellations:
On September 28, 1987:   $21q000'000
On March 8, 1989:           10.000!000
On May 19!1994:              2.704,327
Total Canceled:              33!704,327
Net Amount of Loan:           35,295,673
Closing Date:   Original:               12/31/91
First Extension to:  12/31/92
Second Extension to: 12/31/93
Final: 12/31/93
Loan Account Closed: 05/19/94



- 28 -
3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS (Continued)
b) Original and Final Allocation of Proceeds
(US$ equivalent)
Loan, Agreement
Amount cf              % of                   Actual
Loan             Expenditures               Amount
Category            Allocated          To Bie Financed           Disbursed
(1) Civil Works          4 1, 500,)00.         701. 1/                 26,381,902
(2) Goods                 8, 200,0)00:)I  1007.)i  of foreign           6,194,276
expenditires.
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 657.
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
Cured lccally.
(3) Technical
assistance
and training          2,300, 00C0)        100%.                       162,413
(4) Interest and othet-  8,000,000       Amounts due                   2,557,o81
charges on the                       persuant to
Loan accrued on or                   Section 2.02 (c)
before May 14, 1990                 cf this Agreement
(5) Unallocated           91. 000,000                                           U
TOTALS              69,000,000                                   35,295,672
I/ On September 1, 1991, in view of Middle East crisis, disbursements for civil
works were increased to 90'!.



- 29 -
4.  Project  Implementation
Monitorina  Indicators
Schedule                         Actual
Indicator                 1985      1986      1987        1985      1986       1987
Connection Prograa
MWS II - direct                 46400    37800         --          --    25172       7501
- indirect              23400    30000    30000             --     6199       9808
Tota!       69800    67Q00    30000            --    31341      17309
Other                              20200    25900    16800             --        --        --
Project (new works)
Subdivisions                    --      3900      9000          --        NA      2522
Infilling                       --        --     3400           --        )A
Blighted Areas & Other                    --        --          --              13124
Total Project           --      3900    12400           --    24248       5646
TDtal HDuse Connections         90000    97600    59200            --    55589    22955
Public Faucets - normal            10        --        --                    NA        NA
- project         --                             -           NA        NA
Total Faucets           10        --        --          --        --        --
Total All Connections           90010    97600    59200           _       55589    78544
Cusulative Total               460610   558210   617410        438288   501225   536825
Schedule                          Actual                         Actual
1988      1989      1990        1988      1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
Bonnection Program
hWS 11 - direct                    --        --        --        2268       255       976        252         48      4370
- indirect              11600         --       --        9359      9240      8528        8186      9022      20699
Total       69800        --        --       11627      9495      9504       8438      9070      25069
Other                           15000    15000       5000          --        --        --         --         --         --
Project (new works)
Subdivisions                 2700         --        --        7521      8905    11253        3821       251         --
Infilling                    7800      2300         --                     I                         J          I
Blighted Areas & Other       17600    41100    12200        )2277    )  10   )  869    ) 1736   )1869    )7535
Total Proiect        28l00    43400    12200          9798      8915    12122        5557      2120       7535
Total House Connections         54700    66400    25200         21425    18410    21626        13995    11190       32604
Public Faucets - normal            --        --                              --                   --        --         --
- project         70         70       60
Total Faucets           70        70        60          --        --        --          --        --         --
Total All Connections           54770    66470    25260         99969   116739   140005    154000   165190    197794
Cumulative Total               672180   738650   763910        566506   627310   667820    709770   746050    790330
Note: Numbers of connections include master meters at subdivisions and on highrise blocks, but do not include
private individual oeters where there is no account with MWSS.



- 30 -
4. Project lfle atiDn
Nonitoring Indicators (Continued)
lagleaentation Period
Indicator                         -I 986-  -1987-  -1988-  -1989-  -1990-  -1991-  -1992-  -1993-
Rehabilitation Project 1:  Schedule                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Actual                      --------------------------------------------------06/92
Rehabilitation Project II: Schedule                                                xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Actual                           02/870-----------------------------------------------6/94
Water Losses: Total:          Target                       501      45X     40X      35X     30X      28X      26X     25X
Actual                       bbX     61X      59X      58%     58X      52X      55%     57X
Water Production: Forecast (MCMI                           821      863     891      897     894      911      914      920
Actual   (MCMI                          905     863      879     888      909      813     851      933
(X of FDrecast)              110     100%     991     M99     1021      891     931    IOIX
Water Sales:       Forecast (MCMI                          411      475     535      583     625      656      677     691
Actual   (MCt)                          311     337      359     376      385      386     382      397
(X of Forecast)               7b6     71X      671      641     62X      591    5b       571
Personnel: Water Operations: Target (no.)                 5400    5900    5900    5900    5900         --       --      --
Actual (no.)               5329    5978    6174    5966    5947    5947    5571    5571
X of Target                 981    1011    1051    1011    I011         --       --      --
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets
Target (%1                 7.43    7.13    8.01    8.61    9.98   11.14    12.3   13.42
Actual (X)                11.80    9.80   10.60   10.30    9.40   11.30   11.06   12.16
Average Water Tariff: Current Prices:
Forecast (p/ cu al                4.74    5.16    5.83    6.48    7.17    7.85    8.82    9.80
Actual (p/cu a)                   4.00    4.02    4.36    4.74    5.14    6.23    6.83    7.31
1 of forecast               84X     80X      75X     731      721      791     771      75X
I/
Internal Cash Generation: FDrecast  1X)                    -17     3.4    56.9    73.6    36.1    33.0    19.3    26.4
Actual (Xl                      18      2.1    14.9    55.2    34.5    29.8    52.7    28.2
1/
Debt Service Ratio: Forecast (tiees)                      1.17    1.44    1.92    2.10    2.26    2.45    2.28    2.41
Actual (times)                1.12    0.91    1.04    1.33    1.44    1.38    1.40    1.37
I/   After seeting all debt servicing charges including those for debts yet to be incurred.



- 31 -
5. Project Costs and Financina
1/
a) Project Costs - Aopraisal Estimates
Local   Forei      total       Local   Foreign   Total
Project Component              (Million pesos)                  (Million US$)
Water mains -
Ongoing works              292.1      269.6    561.8         15.8    14.6      30.4
New works                   29.2       50.9      80.2         1.6     2.8       4.3
Subdivision connections        57.1       27.4      84.5         3.1      1.5      4.6
Service connections
Infilling areas             94.8       48.5    143.3         5.1      2.6       7.7
Blighted areas             184.6       70.4    255.0         10.0     3.8      13.8
Metering                        1.1       27.4      28.9         0.1      1.5       1.6
System improvement - valves  18.5          0.0      18.5         1.0      0.0       1.0
Deep wells and connections    2.3          2.2       4.5         0.1      0.1      0.2
Future projects preparation   3.3         16.9      20.2         0.2      0.9       1.1
Institutional support and
development                  22.9    130.2    153.1           1.2     7.0       8.3
Total Baseline costs          706.3      643.6  1,349.9         38.2    34.8      73.0
Physical contingencies    50.9         30.4      81.3         2.8     1.6       4.4
Price contingencies         162.7    131.6    294.3           4.4     3.6       8.0
Total Project Costs           919.9      805.7  1,725.6         45.3    40.0      85.4
Interest during
construction:
IBRD financed                0.0      161.2    161.2         0.0      8.0       8.0
MWSS financed                 0.0      60.4      60.4         0.0     3.0       3.0
Total financing required    919.9   1,027.3  1,947.2            45.3    51.0      96.4
1/    Estimates in format used in Staff Appraisal Report.



- 32 -
5. Project Costs and FinancinQ
1/
b) Project Costs - Revised Format
(Million US$)
Appraisal Estimate                Actual Costs
Project Component          Local   Foreign   total        Local   Foreign   Total
A. Water mains - Ongoing
(Balance of MWSP II)      15.800   14.600   30.400         3.254    5.824    9.078
B. Water Mains - New works   2.700    2.900    5.600          9.572   20.261   29.833
C. Self-financed Works        18.200    7.900   26.100       11.991       ---   11.991
D. Materials and Supplies    1.110    7.390    8.500          0.762    6.517    7.279
E. Technical Assistance        0.390    2.010    2.400        0.012    0.104    0.116
Sub-total              38.200   34.800   73.000        25.591   32.706   58.297
Engineering and Admin.           ---       ---      ---      11.127       ---   11.127
Total Baseline Costs    38.200   34.800   73.000         36.718   32.706   69.424
Physical Contingencies         2.800    1.600    4.400        ---2/    ---2/       --2/
Total Constant Prices   41.000   36.400   77.400         36.718   32.706   69.424
Price Contingencies            4.400    3.600    8.000          ---       ---       ---
3/
Total Project Costs      45.400   40.000   85.400        36.718   32.706   69.424
Interest during 4/
construction:
IBRD financed              0.000    8.000    8.000           ---    2.557    2.557
MWSS financed               0.000    3.000    3.000          ---   10.090   10.090
Total financing required        45.4      51.0     96.4      36.718   45.353   82.071
1/ Format revised to be consistent with MWSS records systems: (B) comprises water
mains-new works, system improvements-valves, deep wells and connections; (C)
comprises connections to subdivisions, and infilling and blighted areas; (D)
comprises metering, institutional support and development; and (E) comprises
future project preparation, and institutional support and development.
2/ Individual contracts had built-in allowances for physical and price
contingencies
3/ $64.972 million out of the estimated total of $69.424 million represents
actual disbursements as of April 1994.
4/ Interest and other charges on the Bank loan through May 1994, of which part
was financed through the loan and the balance by MWSS.



- 33 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
1/
c) Project Costs - Revised Format
(Million pesos)
Appraisal Estimate                Actual Costs
Project Component          Local   Foreign   total        Local   Foreign   Total
Water mains - Ongoing
(Balance of MWSP II)       292.10   269.60   561.80        67.74    70.27   138.01
Water Mains - New works        50.00    53.10   103.10        228.74   513.51   742.25
Self-financed Works           336.50   146.30   482.80        276.69       ---   276.69
Materials and Supplies         17.40   120.20   137.60         18.17   134.92   153.09
Technical Assistance            9.90    54.30    64.20          0.13      2.25     2.38
Sub-total              705.90   643.50  1349.50        591.47   720.95  1312.42
Engineering and Admin.           ---       ---       ---      272.35       ---   272.35
Total Baseline Costs    705.90   643.50  1349.50         863.82   720.95  1584.77
Physical Contingencies         50.90    30.40    81.30         ---2/    ---2/      --2/
Total Constant Prices   756.80   673.90  1430.70         863.82   720.95  1584.77
Price Contingencies           162.70   131.60   294.30           ---       ---      ---
3/
Total Project Costs       919.50   805.50  1725.00       863.82   720.95  1584.77
Interest during 4/
construction:
IBRD financed                0.00   161.20   161.20          ---    53.27    53.27
MWSS financed                0.00    60.40    60.40           ---   260.11   260.11
Total financing required    919.50  1027.10  1946.60          863.82  1034.33  1898.15
1/ Format revised to be consistent with MWSS records systems: (B) comprises water
mains-new works, system improvements-valves, deep wells and connections; (C)
comprises connections to subdivisions, and infilling and blighted areas; (D)
comprises metering, institutional support and development; and (E) comprises
future project preparation, and institutional support and development.
2/ Individual contracts had built-in allowances for physical and price
contingencies.
3/ P 1467.12 million out of the estimated total of P 1584.77 million represents
actual disbursements as of April 1994.
4/ Interest and other charges on the Bank loan through May 1994, of which part
was financed through the loan and the balance by MWSS.



- 34 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
d} Project FinancinQ
US$ (millions)
Appraisal                    Actual
Amount        '             Amount        'M.
1/
Total Project Cost                  85.4        89%            69.42        85%
Interest During Construction        11.0        11%            12.65        15%
Financing Required           96.4       100%            82.07        100%
Project Financing
For Project
Bank Loan                    61.0        71%            32.74        47%
MWSS Corporate Funds         24.4        29%            36.68        53%
For Interest
Bank Loan                     8.0        73%             2.56        20%
MWSS Corporate Funds          3.0        27%             10.09       80%
For Total Required Finance
Bank Loan                    89.0        72%            35.30        43%
MWSS Corporate Funds         27.4        28%            46.77        57%
Total Financing              96.4       100%            82.07       100%
Pesos (millions)
Appraisal                    Actual
Amount        %           Amount          X
1/
Total Project Cost                 1,725.6      89%          1,584.8        83%
Interest During Construction         221.6      11%            313.4        17%
Financing Required          1,947.2    100%           1,898.2        100%
Project Financing
For Project
Bank Loan                   1,234.0      71%            721.0        45%
MWSS Corporate Funds          491.6      29%            863.8        55%
For Interest
Hank Loan                     161.2      73%             53.3         17%
MWSS Corporate Funds           60.4      27%            260.1        83%
For Total Required Finance
Bank Loan                   1,395.2      72%            774.3        41X.
MWSS Corporate Funds          552.0      28%          1,123.9        59%
Total Financing             1,947.2    100%           1,898.2       100%
1/  Duties and taxes included in appraisal estimate totaled about P87m ($4.3m
equivalent). No data is available on actual duties and taxes.



- 35 -
6. Project Benefits
a) Direct Benefits
Estimate at
1/     Project 2/
Appraisal       Completion
Estimate          1994
Additional population served by
increased distribution capacity
and added service connections
(increase in population served
between end of 1985 and project
completion)                            2.3 million    1.6 million
Previously unserved population
which gained access to piped
water supply from MWSS.                1.6 million          N.A.
1/    As given in the Appraisal Report for 1991, the first full year of after
project completion.
2/    Estimate for beginning of 1994, the first year project actually in full
operation. Population figures are based on 8.1 persons per connection
times the total direct and indirect connections added 1966 through 1993.
Indirect connections are those whithin areas which are served by MWSS
master meters.
There is no data on previously unserved population which actually gained
access to piped water suppply from MWSS during the project period.



- 36 -
6. Project Benefits
b) Economic Impact
Actual
Appraisal Estimate       (At Final Development)
Economic Rate of Return                Not Calculated            Not Calculated
Incremental Financial Rate                 39.8%                       17.4
of Return (IFRR)
Underlying Assumptions:
For Appraisal Estimate: (See Annex 2)
The Incremental Financial Rate of Return (IFRR) was calculated taking into
account the incremental operating revenues and costs and the capital costs
of the project. Incremental water revenues were calculated using forecast
of average water consumption per connection added as a result of the
project and the targets for average water tariffs (net of franchise tax),
discounted to constant 1985 prices. Discounted project costs were deducted
to determine the net benefit flow. The deflators used were: 1986 = 1.20;
1987=1.38; 1988=1.518; 1989=1.6698; 1990=1.8034; and 1991-2025=1.9477.
For the Project Completion Report: (See Annex 3)
The IFRR estimated upon completion of the project was calculated taking
into account the incremental operating revenues and costs and the capital
costs of the project. Incremental water revenues (net of franchise tax and
bad debt allowance) was calculated using water consumption per connection
added as a result of the project multiplied by the average water tariff.



- 37 -
6.. Project Results
c) Financial ImPact: Key Indicators
(Million  Pesos)
1985             1986               1987              1988              1989
Avg. Water Tariff (p/cu.a.)
Estimate                        3.300             4.740             5.160              5.830            6.480
Actual                          3.078             3.995              4.01B             4.358            4.741
Hater Revenue: Estimate                       1114.17           1946.62           2450.22           3117.10           3766.34
Actual                         932.28           1241.53            1351.97           1566.58          1781.54
Total Revenue: Estimate                       1352.64          2332.21            2917.95           3690.95           4436.32
Actual                        1133.59           1493.76           1656.80            1905.19          21b6.71
Oper. Costs:   Estimate                        607.25           940.11            1218.60           1466.31           1715.69
Actual                         452.75            583.84            649.93            733.99            878.07
Franchise and Income
Taxes:    Estimate                       0.00            409.85             501.75            515.43           659.57
Actual                           0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00
Net Surplus after interest
and depreciation
Estimate                       435.20            590.80            700.55            705.73            861.40
Actual                         616.70            854.27            525.62            538.57            494.88
1990            1991               1992              1993
Avg. Water Tariff (p/cu.e.)
Estimate                        7.170             7.850             8.820             9.B00
Actual                          5.136             6.225             6.833             7.305
Water Revenue: Estimate                       44B5.88          5216.11            5967.06           6768.9B
Actual                    1976.20          2406.04            2617.01           2900.92
Total Revenue: Estimate                      5264.91           6114.35            6991.39           7923.69
Actual                        2392.81           2965.36           3245.18           3567.93
Oper. Costs:   Estimate                       1956.90          2203.12            2441.B3           2704.56
Actual                         937.93           1063.56           1136.37           1223.70
Franchise and Income
Taxes:    Estimate                     859.49           1070.31            1305.15           1514.17
Actual                           0.00              0.00              0.00              0.00
Net Surplus after interest
and Depreciation:
Estimate                      1164.47           1477.45           1837.61           2138.40
Actual                         791.12           1069.02           1194.06            1175.65



- 38 -
6. Project Results
c) Financial-Impact: Key Indicators (Continued)
(Million Pesos)
1985              1986                 1987               1988              1989
Average Fixed Assets
in Operation: Estiaate                        9551.68           12137.11            15161.B1           18564.92           21242.08
Actual                         5157.30            6389.60             8049.19            8820.89           10141.96
Rate of Return: Estimate                           4.67X              7.43X               7.13X              8.01X              8.61X
Actual                          10.70X             11.80X               9.80X             10.60X             10.30X
Loan Liability
Foreign:      Estimate                       4583.17            4913.41             5296.58            5651.11            5730.25
Actual                         4226.35            4243.83             4362.78            4340.00            4803.10
Local:        Estimate                           0.00               0.00                0.00               0.00               0.00
Actual                            0.00               0.00                0.00               0.00             230.00
Total Debt Servicing:
Estimate                        667.20             853.25              910.45             996.15            1158.69
Actual                          497.74             866.51             1104.82            1213.56            1193.87
Accounts Receivable:
Estimate                        405.79             699.67              875.39            1107.29            1330.73
Actual                          279.38             436.00              414.67             530.28             497.74
1990               1991                1992               1993
Average Fixed Assets
in Operation: Estiaate                       23084.94           24989.63            26808.50           28536.84
Actual                        11904.31           13555.90
Rate of Return: Estimate                           9.98X             11.14X              12.30X             13.42X
Actual                           9.40X             11.30X
Loan Liability
Foreign:      Estimate                       6589.34            8301.90            11090.07           14010.37
Actual                         6351.2B            5917.50
Local:        Estimate                           0.00            500.00              1400.00           2200.00
Actual                          730.00            1930.35
Total Debt Servicing:
Estimate                       1183.75            1395.47             1607.95            1880.98
Actual                         1327.13            1713.55             1862.96            2029.20
Accounts Receivable:
Estimate                       1579.30            1834.14             2097.25            2376.92
Actual                          967.74            1150.48             1479.88            1598.02



- 39 -
7. Status of Major Covenants
Covenant                 Subject                       Compliance/Comments
Loan Aoreement
2.02 (b)       Borrower to open and maintain    Satisfactory compliance.  Account
in dollars a special account.    was opened soon after loan
Deposits into, and payments       effectiveness.
out of, the special account to
be made in accordance with
this agreement.
3.01 (a)       Borrower to cause MWSS to          Satisfactory compliance.
perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project
Agreement, to take or cause to
be taken, all action including
the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other
resources necessary to enable
MWSS to perform such
obligations.
3.01 (b)       The Borrower to relend the         Satisfactory compliance.
loan proceeds to MWSS under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
approved by the Bank.
3.02           Procurement of goods, works        Satisfactory compliance.
and services to be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
4.01           The Borrower to take all           Unsatisfactory compliance.  The
necessary measures to ensure       levels of arrears remained above the
that water/sewerage charges       agreed levels throughout the project
due MWSS be settled by the         implementation period.
Borrower's agencies and local
governments in accordance with
an action plan satisfactory to
the Bank.
6.01           Execution of the Subsidiary        Satisfactory compliance.
Loan Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and MWSS is
specified as an additional
condition of effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement.



- 40 -
7. Status of Major Covenants (Continued)
Covenant                 Subject                         Compliance/Comments
Project
Agrement
Whereas (B)    By a Subsidiary Loan Agreement   Satisfactory compliance.
(SLA) between the Borrower and
MWSS, the proceeds of the loan
to be made available to MWSS
on the terms and conditions
set forth in the SLA.
2.01            MWSS to carry out project with   Generally satisfactory compliance.
due diligence and efficiency       Efficiency in handling bidding and
and in conformity with             processing contract awards was poor
appropriate administrative,        during some periods, however.  Also,
financial, engineering and         project management suffered during
public utility practices, and    period of transition to more
provide, or cause to be            centralized management system.
provided, promptly as needed,
funds, facilities, services
and other required resources.
2.02            Procurement of goods, works        Satisfactory compliance.
and consultants' services to
be governed by Schedule 1.
2.05 (a)        MWSS, at the request of the        Satisfactory compliance.
Bank, to exchange views with
the Bank on progress,
performance of its obligations
under this agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and other matters relating to
the purposes of the loan.
2.05 (b)        MWSS to promptly inform Bank       Satisfactory compliance.
of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to
interfere with project
progress, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the loan,
or MWSS performance of its
obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement



- 41 -
7. Status of Major Covenants (Continued)
Covenant                 Subject                         ComRIiance/Comments
Project
Aareement
3.01            MWSS to operate and conduct         Generally satisfactory compliance.
its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative,
financial, engineering and
public utility practices under
supervision of qualified
management assisted by
competent staff in adequate
numbers.
3.02            MWSS to operate and maintain        Generally satisfactory performance.
its facilities, and make all       Efforts to reduce a serious non-
necessary repairs and renewals   revenue-water problem have thus far
in accordance with sound           been inadequate.
engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
3.04            MWSS to: (a) carry out              Satisfactory compliance.
accelerated distribution
network repair and replacement
program in accordance with
action plan agreed with the
Bank; and (b) review annually
with Bank the progress in
implementing such plan.
4.01 (a)        MWSS to maintain records            Satisfactory compliance.
adequate to reflect in sound
account practices its
operations and financial
condition.
4.01 (b)(i)    MWSS accounts and financial          Satisfactory compliance.
statements, and the Special
Account, for each fiscal year
audited by independent
auditors acceptable to Bank.
4.01 (b)(ii)   MWSS to furnish to Bank not          All financial reports were at least
later than six months after        two months late, and auditor's
each year end, certified           report's were two to B months late,
copies of audited financial        with an average delay of 4 months.
statements and auditor's
report.



- 42 -
7. Status of Major Covenants (Continued)
Covenant                 Subject                        Compliance/Comments
ProJect
Aareement
4.01 (c)         For all expenditures for which   All audit reports on Statements of
withdrawals were made on basis   Expenditure were late - up to 9
of statements of expenditure,    months.
MWSS to:
(i) maintain records
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain such records at
least one year after Bank has
received audit report;
(iii) allow Bank
representative to examine such
records; and
(iv) insure such separate
accounts are included in
annual audits, and that report
thereof includes a separate
opinion as to whether
withdrawals for such
expenditures were used for
purposes for which they were
provided.
4.02 (a)         Except as Bank shall otherwise   Satisfactory compliance.  Actual
agree, MWSS to earn an annual    rates of return were:
rate of return on average          1966 = 9.3%        1990 = 9.4%
current net value of MWSS          1987 = 8.0%        1991 = 11.3%
assets in operation of not         1988 = 8.7%        1992 = 11.1%
less than : (i) 6% in 1986;        1989 = 10.3%       1993 = 12.2%
(ii) 7% in 1987; and 8% in
198B and thereafter.
4.02 (b)         To meet these requirements,        Partial compliance.  The studies
MWSS annually to carry out         and their results were not
review of level and structure    completed on time and not every
of its tariffs and other           year.  Tariff adjustments were not
charges, submit results of the   made in accordance with timetables
review to Bank not later than    agreed by the Bank.
June 30 each year, and
implement recommendations
agreed by the Bank in
accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 43 -
7. Status of Major Covenants (Continued)
Covenant                  Subject                        Compliance/Comments
Project
Aareement
4.03             Except as Bank agrees               Unsatisfactory compliance.  Debt
otherwise, MWSS to maintain a    service ratios ranged from 0.91
debt service ratio not less         (1987) to 1.44 (1990).  The Bank,
than 1.5                           however, reviewed the situation in
each case and determined that the
situation was acceptable.
4.04             MWSS to: (i) annually update        Partial compliance.  The programs
its five-year investment           and investment plans were not
program and financing plan;         supplied on time and not for all
(ii) furnish these to Bank by    years and reviews with the Bank
September 30 each year for          were not semiannual.
review; and (iii) review these
semiannually with Bank.



- 44 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
a) Bank Staff/Consultant Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                    Bank Fiscal Year
FY65    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Preappraisal     30.6
Appraisal         3.6    26.1
Negotiations               8.9
Supervision                1.9    17.8       9.5      5.8    14.2
PCR Prep.
TOTALS     34.2    36.9    17.8        9.5      5.8    14.2
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-
Stage of
Project Cycle            Bank Fiscal Year
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94                TOTALS
Preappraisal                                                  30.6
Appraisal                                                     29.7
Negotiations                                                   8.9
Supersion         7.0      4.8      7.0      3.0              71.0
1/
PCR Prep.                           3.9      3.0               6.9
TOTALS      7.0      4.8    10.9       6.0              147.1
1/ Estimated



- 45 -
S. Use of Bank Resources (Continued)
b) Bank Missions
Type of                                        Performance           Problem
Mission           Dates             Staff         Ratings             Types
Identifica-   09/24 -                                 ---                ---
tion           10/18/84
Preparation   11/84               Fin. Analyst
Engineer
Appraisal     04/29 -             Fin. Analyst
Engineer
Research Asst
Oper. Asst
Post-          11/25 -            Fin. Analyst
appraisal      12/10/85           Engineer
SPN # 1        06/08-23/86        Fin. Analyst         1
Engineers (2)
SPN # 2        11/10-14/86        Fin. Analyst         2      Project management
Engineers (2)
SPN # 3       03/12-23/87         Engineer             2      Project management
Fin. Analyst
Consultant
SPN # 4       07/28 -             Engineer             2      Project Management
08/12/87           Fin. Analyst
SPN # 5       02/07-18/88         Engineer             2      Project management
Fin. Analyst
SPN # 6        10/11-15/88        Fin. Analyst         2      Project management
Engineer
SPN # 7        12/14-18/89        Engineer             2      Training
Procurement
SPN # 8        06/06-20/90        Engineer             1
Fin. Analyst
Engineer
SPN # 9        10/25 -            Engineer
11/09/90
SPN # 10       10/22-31/91        Engineer             1
Fin. Analyst
Emgineer



- 46 -
B. Use of Bank Resources (Continued)
b) Bank Missions (Continued)
Type of                                        Performance          Problem
Mission           Dates            Staff         Ratinqs             Types
SPN # 11      10/04-14/92        Fin. Analyst
SPN # 12      03/21-             Engineer             1
04/10/93           Fin. Analyst
SPN # 13      04/21-29/94        Engineer             I
Fin. Analyst



- 47 -
Annex 1
(Pg. 1 of 2)
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are to improve water supply in the MWSS
service area consisting of Metropolitan Manila, the City of Cavite and 10
other municipalities contiguous to Metropolitan Manila and to improve MWSS'
implementation, operation and financial administration capabilities through
provision of institutional support.
The project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modification thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to
time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Water Mains and Connections
Construction of about 11 km of bulk water supply mains and about
17 km of primary, secondary and tertiary networks and installation
of about 100,000 metered house service connections.
Part B:      Subdivision Connections
Connection of about 72 subdivisions to the distribution network,
including provision of meters and service connections to serve
about 15,600 households.
Part C:      Infilling Areas Connections
Infilling of about 24 areas with secondary and tertiary
distribution pipelines, including provision of meters and service
connections to serve about 13,500 households.
Part D:      Blighted Areas Connections
Provision of tertiary pipelines, yard connections and public
standpipes in about 160 low-income areas to serve about 70,000
poor households.
Part E:      Metering
Acquisition of about 100,000 domestic, industrial and commercial
meters for Parts B, C, D and E of the project
Part F:     Deep Wells and Connections
Drilling and equipping about 5 deep wells, including pumps,
storage reservoirs and improvements to the distribution system.
1/    From Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement dated April 10, 1986.



- 48 -
Annex 1
(Pg. 2 of 2)
Part 6:      Institutional Support and Development
(1)   Provision of consulting services to assist MWSS with:
(i)   project implementation;
(ii)   the implementation of an integrated action program to
achieve service connection targets and general management
support; and
(iii)   updating of engineering and financial studies and installing
seismic monitoring system at Laiban for the preparation of
proposed future projects.
(2)   Improving operation performance through acquisition of about 110
vehicles, including utility trucks and motorcycles for Project
implementation and supervision.
(3)   Upgrading customer records, billing, accounting and engineering
through purchase of computer equipment and services.
(4)   Training of staff to improve operational efficiency, project
preparation and meter maintenance practices.
(5)   Undertaking aerial photography to verify and improve customer
records and assist in the detection of illegal connections and
thus improve billing efficiency.
T     *      *
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 49 -
Annex 2
Calculation of Incremental Financial Rate of Return
ADpraisal Estimate
1991 -
198b           1987             1988            1989            1990              2015
New Connections:
NWS 11 Completion                  67800           30000            11600               0               0                  0
Project (new works)                 3900           12400            28100          43400           12200                   0
Total per annum                    71700           42400            39700          43400           12200                   0
Cumulative Total                   71700          114100           153800         197200          209400             209400
Average Sales per
Connection (cu e)                     806.19          807.83           830.75          826.49          832.78             832.78
Total Increaental
Hater Sales:
('000 cu .)                    57804           92173           127769          162984          174384             174384
Avg. Tariff (Current
Price)    p/cu a                        4.51            4.91             5.55            6.15            6.83               7.57
Deflator                               1.200          1.3800           1.5180          1.6t98          1.8034             1.9477
Avg. Tariff (Constant
Price)    p/cu a                        3.76            3.56             3.66            3.68            3.79               3.89
Incremental Revenue
'000 p                    217.25          327.95           467.14          600.28          660.44             677.77
Incremental 0&M Cost
'000 p                     39.04           85.99            135.24         185.57          208.60             217.77
Project Cost '000 p                   395.50          531.90           358.60          175.30          265.40               0.00
Net Benefit ('000 p)                 -217.29         -289.94           -26.70          239.41          186.44             460.00
Incremental Financial Rate of Return   39.84



- 50 -                                       Annex 3
Page 1 of 8
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
FINANCIAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(In Million Pesos at Current Prices)
FINANCIAL
CASH          CASH         TAXES        NET CASH   INVESTMENT  NET BENEFIT
YEAR        RECEIPTS    EXPENSES                       BENEFIT        COST          FLOW
1986         81.89         58.15         18.52          5.23        134.59        (129.36)
1987        144.64         85.93         24.17         34.54        136.35        (101.81)
1988        199.56        116.20         30.99         52.36        167.24        (114.88)
1989        256.26        149.06         35.98         71.22        251.56        (180.34)
1990        311.22        186.17         37.26         87.80        257.99        (170.19)
1991        398.54        217.58         53.73        127.22        264.40        (137.18)
1992        460.97        237.01         58.75        165.21        172.25         (7.04)
1993        564.67        288.03         77.03        199.61        131.71         67.90
1994        636.98        316.83         81.26        238.88        199.26         39.62
1995        682.74        339.01         61.37        282.36          0.00        282.36
1996        721.99        361.05         62.82        298.12          0.00        298.12
1997        783.98        382.71         78.43        322.84          0.00        322.84
1998        837.19        403.76         84.83        348.60          0.00        348.60
1999        897.42        423.95         99.55        373.92          0.00        373.92
2000        952.88        445.15        108.30        399.43           0.00       399.43
2001      1,021.56        467.40        124.31        429.85          0.00        429.85
2002      1,091.37        490.77        137.06        463.54           0.00       463.54
2003      1,157.15        515.31        148.51        493.33          0.00        493.33
2004      1,237.38        541.08        165.68        530.62           0.00       530.62
2005      1,321.51        568.13        181.44        571.94          0.00        571.94
2006      1,406.38 .      596.54        195.09        614.75          0.00        614.75
2007      1,490.66        626.36        207.11        657.19           0.00       657.19
NPV AT WAC          11.67%  - --              ---             >                           440.57
INTERNAL RATE OF RETUR        -------- ------------------------------------------->       17.41%
Prepared By: CORPLAN
28-Apr-94



51 -                                      Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
METRO MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF CAPITAL
COST
UND SOURCE                      %            OF       WEIGHTED
FINANCED      CAPITAL      AVERAGE
IBRD Loan 2676                   46.00%        7.76%        3.57%
Equity and I.C.G.                54.00%       15.00%        8.10%
W.A.C.C.                       100.00%                     11.67%
Prepared By: CORPLAN
26-Apr 28-Apr-94



METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
WATER REVE ICti PROJECTION
(In Million Pesos A Current Prices)
*Liters                                                -   AERAGE WATER                REVENUE
*          ~~~~~Per           :    VOLUME SOLD                       TARIFF                   (in Million Pesos)                                  GROSS  LLOWANC    NET
YEAR        NO.OF    Person       ERSO                                  ------              -      -             -      -----    -----                BAD      ACCTS       FOR       ACCTS    CASH
CONN.    Served       PER          (1000)                                                WATER    ENVL   Mainm Serv                     DEBTS   REC'SLE    BAD         REC'BLE  RECPTS
*          I~~~~~Day  CONN        cu.m./d    : (MCM) : BASIC    CERA    TOTAL  REVENUE  CHARGE   Charge    TOTAL                         (2%)      (25%)    DEBTS
1986        55583        150       8.1        67533.35       24.650  :     3.81     0.18      3.99     90.35       9.84       1.00    109.19           2.18     27.30       2.18      25.11     81.89
1987        78538       151        8.1        96059.83       35.062        3.84     0.18      4.02    140.95      14.09       1.41    150.46           3.13     39.11       5.31      33.80    144.64
1988        99963       150        8.1       121455.05       44.331        3.97     0.38      4.35    192.84      19.28       1.80    213.92        .4.28       53.48       9.59      43.89    19g.56
1989       118373        147       8.1       140946.73  : 51.446           4.26     0.48'    4.74    243.85       24.39       2.13    270.37           5.41     67.59      15.00      52.59    256.26
1990       139999        138       8.1       156490.88       57.119        4.52     0.61      5.13    293.02      29.30       2.52    324.84           6.50      81.21     21.50      59.72    311.22
1991       153994        134  :    8.1        167145.09      61.008        5.09     1.13      6.22    379.47      37.95       2.77    420.19           8.40    102.86      27.72      75.15    398.54
1992       185184        128       8.1       171262.77  : 62.S11           5.87     0.97      6.84    427.57      42.76       2.97    473.31           9.47     115.20     34.05      81.14    460.97
1993       197788        126       8.1       201862.43       73.680        6.13     1.15      7.28    536.39      53.64       3.56    593.59          11.87    144.12      41.65     102.47    584.87
1994       197788        125  : 8.1          200260.35       73.095  :     6.43      1.61     8.04    587.61      58.76       3.56    649.93          13.00    i57.08      49.24     107.84    636.98
1995   :197788  :        125       8.1       200260.35  : 73.095           7.42      1.15     8.57    626.06      62.61       3.56    692.22          13.84    166.56      56.58     109.97    682.74
1996   : 197788  :       125       8.1   :200260.35          73.095        7.83      1.20     9.03    659.83      65.98       3.56    729.37   :      14.59    173.94      62.77     111.17    721.99 
1997   : 197788  :       125  :    8.1        200260.35  : 73.095          8.22      1.70     9.92    724.74      72.47       3.56    800.77   :      16.02    190.73      69.32     121.41    783.96     Ln
1998   : 197788          125       8.1       200260.35  : 73.095           0 .63     1.85    10.48    765.96      76.60       3.56    848.12   :      16.92    199.66      74.37     125.29    837.19     "
1999   : 197788  :      125        8.1       200260.35       73.095        9.06     2.25     11.31     826.78     82.68       3.56    913.02          18.26    215.26      79.63     135.63    897.42 
2000   : 197788          125  :    8.1        200260.35  : 73.095          9.51i     2.45    11.96    874.07      87.41       3.58    965.04          19.30    227.41      85.09     142.33    952.88
2001       19778a        125  :    8.1        200260.35      73.095        9.99      2.90    12.88    941.68      94.17       3.56   1039 41          20.79    245.27      91.29     153.98  '1,021 56
2002       197788        125       8.1   : 200260.35  : 73.095  : 10.49              3.23    13.72   1002.94     100.29       3.56   1106.79   :      22.14    260.66      97.41     163.27   1,091.37
2003       197788        125  :    8.1        200260.35      73.095  : 11.01         3.53    14.54   1062.87     106.29       3.56   1172.72   :      23.45    276.26     103.94     172.32   1,157.15
2004   : 197788  :       125       8.1   :200260.35  : 73.095  : 12.06              3.53     15.59   1139.62     113.96       3.56   1257.15   :      25.14    296.03     110.82     185.20   1,237.38
2005   : 197788          125       8.1   m200260.35  : 73.095             1 3.li    3 53     16.64   1216.37     121.64       3.56   1341.57   :      26.83    316.09     11I8.35    197.74   1,321.51
2006       197788  .     125       8.1   m200260.35  : 73.095  : 14.16               3.53    17.69   1293. 12/   129.31       3.56   1426.00   .      28.52    335 71     126.08    209 63   1,406.38
2007   : 197788  :       125       8.1      .200260 35  : 73.095          15.21     3.53     18.74   1369.87     136.99       3.56   1510.42          30 21    355.47     134.16    221.31   1.490.66
Prepared By: CORPLAN
28-Apr-94
00
LA0
0 9
MIhX
0,3L.



53.                                         Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECTED CASH EXPENSES
(In Million Pesos at Current Prices)
NUMBER OF CONNECTIONS (Thou.)
------------- ----------- -------------  TOTAL OPERATING & MAINTENANCE COST     0 & M
YEAR   MULATI  MMM W D P         ------------- ------------ ----------- ------------ ------------ --------    COST
TOTAL   Annual  Cumula- Supplies  Chem.   Power Personnel Sundry   Total  MMWDP
MWSS  Installed   tive    & Mat.
1986   501.23    55.58    55.58    30.04    49.79   157.56   212.92    74.02   524.33    58.15
1987   534.34    22.96    78.54    36.82    40.67   136.66   280.38    90.09   584.62    85.93
1988   566.51    21.43    99.96    28.66    52.77   116.97   359.85   100.30   658.55   116.20
1989   627.31    18.41   118.37    31.35    65.79   101.05   474.52   117.23   789.94   149.06
1990   667.82    21.63   140.00    32.78    64.31   124.18   507.30   159.48   888.05   186.17
1991   709.77    14.00   153.99    29.58    83.06   152.00   568.80   169.42  1002.86   217.58
1992   746.05    11.19   165.18    29.51   102.19   151.02   566.76   220.99  1070.47   237.01
1993   790.33    32.60   197.79    24.80    84.95   154.31   623.38   263.49  1150.93   288.03
1994   790.33    0.00   197.79    27.28    93.45   169.74   685.72   289.84  1266.02   316.83
1995   790.33    0.00   197.79    29.19    99.99   181.62   733.72   310.13  1354.64   339.01
1996   790.33    0.00   197.79    31.09   106.49   193.43   781.41   330.29  1442.70   361.05
1997   790.33    0.00   197.79    32.95   112.87   205.03   828.29   350.10  1529.26   382.71
1998   790.33    0.00   197.79    34.76   119.08   216.31   873.85   369.36  1613.37   403.76
1999   790.33    0.00   197.79    36.50   125.04   227.13   917.54   387.83  1694.04   423.95
2000   790.33     0.00   197.79    38.33   131.29   238.48   963.42   407.22  1778.74   445.15
2001   790.33     0.00   197.79    40.24   137.85   250.41  1011.59   427.58  1867.67   467.40
2002   790.33     0.00   197.79    42.26   144.75   262.93  1062.17   448.96  1961.06   490.77
2003   790.33     0.00   197.79    44.37   151.98   276.07  1115.28   471.41  2059.11   515.31
2004   790.33     0.00   197.79    46.59   159.58   289.88  1171.04   494.98  2162.07   541.08
2005   790.33     0.00   197.79    48.92   167.56   304.37  1229.60   519.73  2270.17   568.13
2006   790.33     0.00   197.79    51.36   175.94   319.59  1291.08   545.71  2383.68   596.54
2007   790.33     0.00   197.79    53.93   184.74   335.57  1355.63   573.00  2502.86   626.36
Prepared By: CORPLAN
28-Apr.94



-54 -                                   Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
METROPOLITAN MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
INVESTMENT COST
TOTAL COST              TOTAL COST
LOCAL      FOREIGN   EXCLUDING                 INCLUDING
YEAR        COST         COST       I.D.C.      I.D.C.       I.D.C.
(P)         (P)         (P)          (P)         (P)
1986      121.88       12.71       134.59        0.00       134.59
1987       91.85       44.50       136.35        0.00       136.35
1988       64.77       48.37       113.14       54.10       167.24
1989       99.30      122.38       221.68       29.88       251.56
1990       80.73      130.79       211.52       46.47       257.99
1991       31.20      175.98       207.18       57.22       264.40
1992       33.68       74.41       108.09       64.16       172.25
1993       -8.19       74.29        66.10       65.61       131.71
1994       93.69      105.57       199.26        0.00       199.26
1995        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
1996        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
1997        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
1998        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
1999        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
2000        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
2001        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
2002        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
2003        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
2004        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
2005        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
2006        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
2007        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
Total     608.91      789.00    1,397.91       317.43    1,715.34
Prepared By: CORPLAN
28-Apr-94



METROPOLITAN MANILA WA~TER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF FOREIGN LOAN (IBRD 2676)
(In Million US 5)
Terms       ILoan Amnt.               $35.586    Year Loan Start                      1966             Loan Term         20             Interest Rate             7.76%
And        IFinancing code                  0   Interest Cap. Until Yr.              1994             Grace              5             Comimittment Fee          0.75%
Conditions                                         Year Amortization Start             1991              Repayffen         15             Guarantee Fee             0.00%
Draw-                 Gross      Prin-       Net      Balance     Semi-    Commit-    Inte-       Intetest    Guaran-     Total    Interest   Interest    Outstan-
down      Interest   Draw-       cipal      Draw-     To Be      Annual      ment       rest        Plus       tee      Interest    CapIta-    Opera-      ding
YEAR            tor the    Financ-ed   down      Repay-      down       Drawn     Amort      Charge    Payment   Com.Fee        Fee      Payment    lized       tional    Balance
Project               535.586     menl
1986          3.994      0.000      3.994      0 000      3.994     31.592      0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.000     0.000       3.994
1987          3 163      0.000      3.163      0.000      3.163     28.429      0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000     0.000       7.157
1988          6.770      0.000      6 770      0.000      6.770     21.659      0.000      0.000      2.557      2.557      0.000       2.557      2.557     0.000      13.927
1989          3.170      0.000      3.170      0.000      3.170     18.488      0.000      0.000       1.348      1.348     0.000       1.348      1.348     0.000      17.098
1990          4.482      0.000      4.482      0.000      4.482     14.006      0 000      0.000       1.767      1.767     0.000       1.767      1.767     0 000     21.580
1991          5 850      0.000      5.850      1.267      4.584      8.156      0.000      0.000       2.073      2.073      0.000      2.073      2.073     0.000     26.164 
1992          2.140      0.000      2.140      2.533     (0.393)     6.016      0.000      0.000      2.471      2.471      0.000      2.471      2.471      0.000     25.770            -
1993          3 860      0.000      3.860      2.533      1.327      2.156      0.000      0.000      2.328      2.328      0.000      2.328       2.328     0.000     27.097            I
1994          2.1I56     0.000      2.156      2.533     (0.377)     0.000      0.000      0.000      2.088      2.088      0.000      2.088      2.088      0.000     26.719
1995          0.000      0.000      0.000      2.533     (2.533)     0.000      0.000      0.000      1.975      1.975      0.000      1.975      0.000      1.975     24.186
1996          0.000      0 000      0.000      2.533     (2.533)     0.000      0.000      0.000      1.779      1.779      0.000      1.779      0.000      1.779     21.653
1997          0 000      0 000      0.000      2.533     (2.533)     0 000      0.000      0.000      1.582      1.582      0.000      1.582      0.000      1.582     19.119
1998          0.000      0 000      0.000      2.533     (2.533)     0.000      0.000      0.000      1.385      1.385      0.000      1.385      0.000      1.385     16.586
1 999         0 000      0.000      0.000      2.533     (2.533)     0.000      0.000      0.000      1.189      1.189      0.000      1.189      0.000      1.189     14.052
2000          0.000      0.000      00(00      2.533     (2.533)     0.000      0.000      0.000      0.992      0.992      0.000      0.992      0.000      0.992     11.519
2001          0.000      0.000      0.000      2.533     (2 533)     0 000      0 000      0:000      0 796      0.796      0 000      0.796      0 000      0.796      8.986
2002          0000o      0 000      0.000      2 533     (2.533)     0 000      0.000      0.000      0 599      0.599      0.000      0 599      0 000      0.599      6.452
2003          0 000      0.000      0 000      2.533     (2.533)     0.000      0 000      0 000      0.402      0.402      0.000      0.402      0.000      0.402      3.919
2004          0.000      0.000      0.000      2.533     (2.633)     0 000      0.000      0.000      0.206      0.206      0.000      0.206      0.000      0.206       1.385
2005          0.000      0.000      0.000      1.385     (1.385)     0.000      0.000      0.000      0.054      0.054      0.000      0.054      0.000      0.054      0.000
OQ
Prepared By. CORPLAN                                                                                                                                                               :
28-Apr-94                                                                                                                                                         



-56 -                                         Annex 3
Page 7of8
METRO MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION SUMMARY
(In Million Pesos At Current Prices)
:   ASSETS      YEARLY    ANNUAL         REV'D                    REVD         NET
:  ENTERING    DEPR'N        REVN        FIXED        YEAR       ACCUM.       FIXED
:   PERATIO      RATE       FACTOR      ASSETS       DEPR'N      DEPR'N      ASSETS
YEAR                       6.178990%        7.33%
1986   :        0.00      6.179%      7.326%         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
1987   :      134.59      6.179%      7.326%       134.59        4.16        4.16      130.43
1988   :      136.35      6.179%       7.326%      280.80       12.83       17.30      263.50
1989          167.24      6.179%       7.326%      468.61       23.15       41.72      426.89
1990   :      251.56      6.179%       7.326%      754.50       37.79       82.56      671.94
1991   :      257.99      6.179%       7.326%    1,067.76       56.30      144.91      922.85
1992          264.40      6.179%       7.326%    1,410.38       76.56      232.08    1,178.29
1993          172.25      6.179%      7.326%    1,685.94        95.66      344.75    1,341.20
1994   :      131.71      6.179%      7.326%    1,941.16       112.06      482.06    1,459.10
.1995          199.26      6.179%      7.326%    2,282.62      130.49      647.87    1,634.76
1996            0.00      6.179%      7.326%    2,449.84       146.21      841.54    1,608.30
1997   :        0.00      6.179%      7.326%    2,629.31       156.92    1,060.11    1,569.20
1998            0.00      6.179%       7.326%    2,821.93      168.42    1,306.18    1,515.74
1999            0.00      6.179%      7.326%    3,028.65       180.75    1,582.62    1,446.03
2000   :         0.00     6.179%       7.326%    3,250.52      193.99    1,892.56     1,357.97
2001   :         0.00     6.179%       7.326%    3,488.65      208.21    2,239.41    1,249.24
2002   :         0.00     6.179%       7.326%    3,744.22      223.46    2,626.92    1,117.30
2003             0.00      6.179%      7.326%    4,018.51      239.83    3,059.19      959.32
2004             0.00     6.179%       7.326%    4,312.89      257.40    3,540.69      772.20
2005             0.00     6.179%       7.326%    4,628.84      276.25    4,076.33      552.51
2006   :         0.00     6.179%       7.326%    4,967.94      296.49    4,671.44      296.49
2007             0.00     6.179%       7.326%    5,331.87      318.21    5,331.87        0.00
Prepared By: CORPLAN
28-Apr-94



METRO MANILA WATER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
(In Million Pesos At Current Prices)
REVENUE              REVENUE                                                   REAL                      NET                  NET
FROM   FRANCHIS   NET OF          PERATIN    YEAR        BAD    INTEREST PROPERTY   TOTAL            TAXABLE  INCOME   INCOME
PERATIO    TAX    FRAN. TAX       EXPENSES  DEPR'N    DEBTS   EXPENSE    TAX    EXPENSES              INCOME       TAX    AFTER TAX
YEAR
1986         109.19       2.18    107.00          58.15      0.00       2.18      0.00       0.00      60.33         46.68     16.34      30.34
1987         156.46       3.13     153.33         85.93      4.16       3.13      0.00       0.00      93.22         60.11     21.04      39.07
1988         213.92       4.28    209.65         116.20     12.83       4.28      0.00       0.00     133.32         76.33     26.71      49.61
1989         270.37       5.41    264.96         149.06     23.15       5.41       0.00      0.00     177.62         87.34     30.57      56.77
1990         324.84       6.50    318.35         186.17     37.79       6.50      0.00       0.00     230.45         87.89     30.76      57.13
1991         420.19       8.40    411.78         217.58     56.30       8.40      0.00       0.00     282.29        129.50     45.32      84.17
1992         473.31       9.47    463.84         237.01     76.56       9.47      0.00       0.00     323.04        140.80     49.28      91.52
1993         593.59      11.87    581.72         288.03     95.66      11.87      0.00       0.00     395.56        186.15     65.15     121.00
1994         649.93      13.00    636.93         316.83    112.06      13.00      0.00       0.00     441.89        195.04     68.26     126.78
1995         692.22      13.84    678.38        339.01     130.49      13.84     59.25       0.00     542.60        135.78     47.52      88.25
1996         729.37      14.59    714.78         361.05    146.21      14.59     55.13       0.00     576.98        137.81     48.23      89.57
1997         800.77      16.02    784.76        382.71     156.92      16.02     50.78       0.00    606.43         178.33     62.42     115.91
1998         846.12      16.92    829.20        403.76     168.42      16.92     46.08       0.00    635.17         194.02     67.91     126.11
1999         913.02      18.26    894.76        423.95     180.75      18.26     39.54       0.00    662.50         232.26     81.29     150.97
2000         965.04      19.30    945.74         445.15    193.99      19.30      33.00      0.00     691.44        254.30     89.00     165.29
2001        1,039.41     20.79   1,018.62        467.40    208.21      20.79      26.46      0.00     722.86        295.77    103.52     192.25
2002        1,106.79     22.14   1,084.65        490.77    223.46      22.14      19.92      0.00     756.29        328.37    114.93     213.44
2003        1,172.72     23.45   1,149.27        515.31    239.83      23.45      13.38      0.00     791.98        357.29    125.05     232.24
2004        1,257.15     25.14   1,232.00        541.08    257.40      25.14      6.85       0.00     830.46        401.54    140.54     261.00
2005        1,341.57     26.83   1,314.74        568.13    276.25      26.83       1.79      0.00     873.00        441.74    154.61     287.13
2006        1,426.00     28.52   1,397.48        596.54    296.49      28.52       0.00      0.00     921.55        475.93    166.57     309.35
2007   :    1,510.42     30.21   1,480.21        626.36    318.21      30.21      0.00       0.00     974.78        505.43    176.90     328.53
OD D
00
Prepared By: CORPLAN                                                                                                                         o X
2  X
28-Apr-94                                                                                                                     O 



- 58 -
Annex 4
1/             Page 1 of 5
ComPliance with Major Covenants
Loan Agreement 2.02 (b)
Borrower to open and maintain in dollars a special account. Deposits into, and
payments ot of, the special account to be made in accordance with this agreement.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with. Account was opened on 01 October 1986.
Loan Agreement 3.01 (a)
Borrower to cause MWSS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement, to take or cause to be taken, all action including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resorces necessary to enable
MWSS to perform such obligations.
Compliance:
A Project Facilitation Committee was created under the Office of the
President. This was replaced later by the Coordinating Council of the
Philippines Assistance Program (CCPAP).
Loan Agreement 3.01 (b)
The Borrower to relend the loan proceeds to MWSS under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement approved by the Bank.
Compliance:
Subsidiary Loan agreement dated 26 June 1986 was entered into.
Loan Agreement 3.02
Procurement of goods, works and services to be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Loan Agreement 4.01
The Borrower to take all necessary measures to ensure that water/sewerage
charges due MWSS be settled by the Borrower's agencies and local governments in
accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank.
Compliance:
Accounts receivable from national and local government units were reduced from
of 6 months of average sales in 1985 to 3.5 months of average sales in 1993.
1/ Prepared by MWSS as Annex 11 of draft Part II of PCR.



- 59 _
Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
Comoliance with MaJor Covenants (Continued)
Project Aqreement 2.01
MWSS to carry out project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, funds,
facilities, services and other required resources.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Agreement 2.02
Procurement of goods, works and consultants services to be governed by
Schedule 1.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily Complied with.
Project Agreement 2.05 (a)
MWSS, at the request of the Bank, to exchange views with the Bank on progress,
performance of its obligations under this agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the loan.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Agreement 2.05 (b)
MWSS to promptly inform Bank of any condition which interferes, or threatens
to interfere with project progress, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
loan, or MWSS performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Compliance:
Quarterly Reports on progress and causes of delays were regularly sent to the
Bank.



- bO -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Compliance with Major Covenants (Continued)
Project Agreement 3.01
MWSS to operate and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices under
supervision of qualified management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily Complied with.
Project Agreement 3.02
MWSS to operate and maintain its facilities, and make all necessary repairs
and renewals in accordance with sound engineering, financial, and public utility
practices.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Agreement 3.04
MWSS to: (a) carry out accelerated distribution network repair and replacement
program in accordance with action plan agreed with the Bank; and (b) review
annually with Bank the progress in implementing such plan.
Compliance:
Network rehabilitation was carried out from 1986 through 1993.
Project Aqreement 4.01 (a)
MWSS to maintain records adequate to reflect in sound account practices its
operations and financial condition.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Agreement 4.01 (b)(i)
MWSS accounts and financial statements, and the Special Account, for each
fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to Bank.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
Compliance with Major Covenants (Continued)
Project Agreement 4.01 (b)(ii)
MWSS to furnish to Bank not later than six months after each year end,
certified copies of audited financial statements and auditor's report.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Aqreement 4.01 (c)
For all expenditures for which withdrawals were made on basis of statements of
expenditures, MWSS to:
(i) maintain records reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain such records
at least one year after Bank has received audit report;
(iii) allow Bank representative to examine such records; and
(iv) insure such separate accounts are includedin annual audits, and that
report thereof includes a separate opinion as to whether withdrawals for such
expenditures were used for purposes for which they were provided.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Agreement 4.02 (a)
Except as Bank shall otherwise agree, MWSS to earn an annual rate of return on
average current net value of MWSS assets in operation of not less than : (i) 6%
in 1986; (ii) 7% in 1987; and 8% in 1988 and thereafter.
Compliance:
Rate of Return were as follows
1986 =  9.3%                  1990 = 9.4%
1987 =  8.0%                  1991 = 11.3%
1988 =  8.7%                  1992 = 11.1%
1989 =  10.3%                 1993 = 12.2%



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Project Agreement 4.02 (b)
To meet these requirements, MWSS annually to carry out review of level and
structure of its tariffs and other charges, submit results of the review to Bank
not later than June 30 each year, and implement recommendations agreed by the
Bank in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.
Project Aareement 4.03
Except as Bank agrees otherwise, MWSS to maintain a debt service ratio not
less than 1.5
Compliance:
Debt service ratio were as follows
1986 =  1.12:1                1990 = 1.44:1
1987 =  0.91:1                1991 = 1.38:1
1988 =  1.04:1                1992 = 1.04:1
1989 =  1.35:1                1993 = 1.35:1
Project Agreement 4.04
MWSS to: (i) annually update its five-year investment program and financing
plan; (ii) furnish these to Bank by September 30 each year for review; and (iii)
review these semiannually with Bank.
Compliance:
Satisfactorily complied with.









