                                                  CONFORMED COPY




                                         CREDIT NUMBER 4625 -ML




      Financing Agreement

(Additional Financing for Multi-Sectoral HIV / AIDS Project)



                          between



                  REPUBLIC OF MALI


                            and


  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             Dated                       , 2009
                                                         CREDIT NUMBER 4625 -ML

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated                                   , 2009 entered into between
REPUBLIC OF MALI ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("Association") for the purpose of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I -- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the
        Original Financing Agreement, or this Agreement.

1.03.   The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the
        Appendix to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II -- FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to four
        million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000)
        (variously, "Credit" and "Financing") to assist in financing the project described
        in Schedule 2 to the original Financing Agreement, as amended hereby
        ("Project").

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
        withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
                                          -2-




2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.

                             ARTICLE III -- PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the HCNLS in accordance
        with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE IV -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.
                                           -3-




                 ARTICLE V -- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.

5.02.   The Recipient's Address is:

        Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances
        Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances
        BP. 234
        Bamako
        Mali

        Facsimile :

        223-20-228853

5.03.   The Association's Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                  Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI)             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                 -4-




AGREED at Bamako, Mali, as of the day and year first above written.




               REPUBLIC OF MALI




               By /s/ Sanoussi Touré

                                                  Authorized Representative




               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




               By /s/ Alassane Diawara

                                                  Authorized Representative
                                          -5-




                                    SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Execution

Section I.     Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

        1.      Sections 1 through 7 of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement
        are hereby incorporated by reference in this Part A as paragraphs 1 through 7
        respectively, and shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the Credit, and the Recipient
        undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof to the same extent as if such
        provisions had been set out in full in this Agreement, subject, however, to the
        following modifications:

        (a)     any reference to "Date of Effectiveness" shall be construed as a reference
                to "Effective Date"; and

        (b)     any reference to any measure or action to be taken prior to the date of
                this Agreement shall be construed as a measure or action to be
                undertaken with effect from the Effective Date and according to the time
                frame indicated in the Original Financing Agreement.

        2.      The Recipient shall strengthen the HNCLS by no later than July 31, 2010
        under terms of reference and with suitably qualified and experienced staff in
        adequate numbers and resources satisfactory to the Association so as to enable
        the HNCLS to carry out the tasks and responsibilities carried out by the CMA
        under the Project until July 31, 2010 at the latest.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        1.     The Recipient shall ensure that:

        (a)     the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
                Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and

        (b)     in the case of Subprojects, the terms and conditions governing Subgrants
                and set forth in the respective CSO Subgrant Agreement or PS Subgrant
                Agreement, as the case may be, shall include a requirement on the part of
                the Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the
                                           -6-




                provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of
                Credit proceeds other than the Recipient.

C.      Safeguards

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Reports referred to in
        Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule include information on the implementation of
        the Medical Waste Management Plan.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      (a)     The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
                prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
                Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
                set forth in Schedule 6 to the Original Financing Agreement, as amended
                pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement.
                Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,
                and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the
                end of the period covered by such report.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
        prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the
        end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited consolidated financial reports for
        the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Association.

3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the
        Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
        furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such
        period.
                                          -7-




Section III.   Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.      International Competitive Bidding. (a)          Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded
        on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

        (b)     The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement
        Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall
        apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
        carried out by domestic contractors.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
        specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
        Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
        specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

         Procurement Method
         (a) Limited International Bidding
         (b) National Competitive Bidding
         (c) Shopping
                                       -8-




      (d) Direct Contracting
      (e) Procurement from United Nations Agencies
      (f) Community Participation in Procurement



C.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services

1.   Quality- and Cost-based Selection. (a)         Except as otherwise provided in
     paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
     awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

     (b)      For the purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short
     list of consultants for consulting services estimated to cost less than $200,000
     equivalent, per contract, may include only consultants from the country of the
     Borrower.

2.   Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
     specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
     which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
     the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

      Procurement Method
      (a) Selection under a Fixed Budget
      (b) Least-Cost Selection
      (c) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
      (d) Single Source Selection
      (e) Individual Consultants



D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

     The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
     Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
     by the Association.
                                               -9-




Section IV.       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.        General

1.        The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
          the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
          additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
          (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
          May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
          applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
          Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.        The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
          amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
          be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

             Category                 Amount of the Credit              Percentage of
                                  Allocated (expressed in SDR)        Expenditures to be
                                                                          Financed
                                                                      (inclusive of Taxes)
     (1) Works, Goods,                      3,300,000                         100%
         Consultants; Services
         and Operating Costs
     (2) Subprojects                           800,000                  100% of amounts
                                                                           disbursed
     TOTAL AMOUNT                           4,100,000



B.        Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.        Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
          made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2.        The Closing Date is July 31, 2011.
                                        - 10 -




                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

               Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                                repayable
                                                       (expressed as a percentage)*
On each March 15 and September 15:
commencing September 15, 2019 to and including                     1%
March 15, 2029
commencing September 15, 2029 to and including                     2%
March 15, 2049


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.
                                        - 11 -




                                    APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006.

2.      "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006.

3.      "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
        through October 15, 2006).

4.      "Original Financing Agreement" means the development grant agreement for a
        Multi-Sectoral HIV / AIDS Project between the Recipient and the Association,
        dated June 24, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Grant
        No. H099 MLI).

5.      "Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Financing
        Agreement, as amended pursuant to Section II of this Appendix.

6.      "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
        Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
        October 2006.

7.      "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
        dated May 6, 2004, as revised as of April 20, 2009, and referred to in
        paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the
        Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
        accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

Section II.    Amendment to Original Financing Agreement

        The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set forth below.
                                        - 12 -




1.   Section 1.02 is amended by inserting therein in their appropriate alphabetical
     order the following new definitions (b), (e), (k), (p) and (hh), the existing
     definitions being renumbered accordingly:

     (b)     "ARV" means Anti-Retroviral Drugs.

     (e)     "CSCOM" or "Community Health Center" means the Recipient's entity
     established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's Decree No. 05 - 299 /P-RM
     of June 28, 2005 establishing the conditions for the establishment and
     fundamental principles of operation of community health centers.

     (k)     "Fiscal Year" means the period from January 1 to December 31.

     (p)     "Most-at-risk-Population" means the population in the territory of the
             Recipient that includes groups exposed at concentrated risk behaviors for
             HIV, and includes female sex workers and their clients, injecting drug
             users, men who have sex with men, miners, truck drivers, seasonal
             workers, female ambulatory vendors and female domestic employees.

     (hh)    "VCT" means Voluntary Counseling and Testing.

2.   Section 2.05 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows:

     "Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2011, or such later date as the
     Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of
     such later date."

3.   Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended to
     read as follows:

     "The objective of the Project is to contribute to the Recipient's multi-sectoral
     efforts to control the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic by improving access to
     prevention, treatment, and care particularly for the Most-At-Risk-Population
     (MARP) and those infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS through:
     (a) strengthening the Recipient's national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic by
     improving its evidence base, coordination, implementation and monitoring and
     evaluation capacity; (b) raising the level of awareness on HIV/AIDS through the
     implementation of a comprehensive sensitization plan targeting Most-At-Risk-
     Population; (c) providing access to testing and counseling facilities; and
     (d) providing access to treatment, care and psychosocial support to persons infected
     with or affected by HIV/AIDS."
                                         - 13 -




4.   Paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is
     amended to read as follows:

     "2.    Provision of support to MOH and CSCOMs to fight the HIV/AIDS
     epidemic, through:

     (a) strengthening the capacity of MOH and CSCOMS to carry out epidemiological
     surveillance and operational research, and bio-medical waste management; and
     (b) expansion of the network of voluntary testing and counseling centers in
     CSOMS, of ARVs and related treatments, and of laboratory support services."

5.   Part A of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended by adding
     therein a new paragraph 3 as follows:

     "3.     Provision of equipment and training to twenty-five (25) health centers to
     operate as HIV/AIDS treatment centers."

6.   Part B of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended by adding
     therein a new paragraph 3 as follows:

     "3.     Provision of equipment and training to health centers in selected major
     private companies to operate as HIV/AIDS treatment centers for the companies'
     personnel, their families and the local population."

7.   Paragraph (d) of Section 1 of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement is
     amended as follows:

     "(d) without limitation to the generality of paragraph (c) above, HCNLS shall
     recruit under terms of reference acceptable to the Association a CMA and FMA.
     The respective contracts entered into with the CMA and FMA must be in a form
     and substance that is satisfactory to the Association, with terms and conditions that
     shall include, inter alia, a clear delineation of their respective responsibilities and
     the obligation to implement the Project in accordance with the PIM, dated
     performance targets and monitoring indicators and progress reporting obligations
     until at the latest July 31, 2010 for CMA and until the completion of the Project for
     FMA."
                                             - 14 -




8.         The Table in Schedule 6 is revised, as set forth in the Table below:

     No.                                      Indicator
     1.     At least 15,000 orphans attend school regularly.
     2.     At least 9,000 PLWA medically eligible for treatment (CD4 count less than
            200) are under ARV prophylaxis (PTME).
     3.     At least 55,000 people aged 15 and older received counseling and testing
            (VCT) for HIV and received their test results.
     4.     60% of HIV+ pregnant women assisted for prenatal care received ARV
            prophylaxis (PTME) by end of Project.
     5.     257 reference centers (circles & communes) and 400 CSCOM offer testing
            and counseling by end of Project.
     6.     160 reference centers (circles & communes) and 400 CSCOM structures
            have means to dispose of medical waste by the end of the Project.
     7.     At least 100 enterprises and business associations have implemented
            HIV/AIDS action plan by the end of the Project.
     8.     Number of private centers offering VCT services increased from 15 to 25.
     9.     7,000 patients with access to treatment monitoring services by private
            laboratory.
     10.    15,000 of commercial sex workers and other Most-at-risk-population
            receiving services from subprojects.
     11.    At least 25 sub-projects implemented among commercial sex workers
            and/or high risk groups (truck drivers, ambulatory vendors, military/police
            staff) annually.
