Page  1
 
 
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC345 
 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: February 4, 2004 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Mali 
Project ID: P082957 
Project Name: Mali - Multi-sectoral 
HIV/AIDS Project (MAP) 
Task Team Leader: Francois Nankobogo 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 16, 2004 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IDAH: 15 
Estimated Board Date: May 20, 2004 
 
Managing Unit: AFTPS 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Other social services (100%) 
Theme: Social risk reduction (P) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team: TBD 
Other financing amounts by source: TBD 
($m.) 
 
 
B.  Project Objective 
 
The project objective is to help Mali reverse the trend of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, through 
strengthened policy-making and implementation capacity, increased awareness and voluntary 
testing to prevent new infections, and increased access to treatment and care. This will be done 
principally through: a) support to update the national plan against HIV/AIDS for the period 
FY05-10; b) support to private sector, civil society, public sector and community initiatives for 
HIV/AIDS prevention and care; and c) the establishment of an efficient multi-sector institutional 
and operational framework for project implementation. The project will complement other 
ongoing HIV/AIDS prevention initiatives. 
 
 
C.  Project Description 
 
Alternative approaches. The “no project” alternative is not desirable due to the risk of increase in 
morbidity and mortality from AIDS advancing rapidly.  Without adequate intervention, the AIDS 
epidemic in Mali can be expected to follow the same course as neighboring countries, with up to 
20% of adults becoming HIV positive. Other alternative approaches would have been to have 
HIV/AIDS activities covered in various sector-specific projects, but the multi-sectoral approach 
is likely to be more effective and sustainable. 
 
Page  2
 
 
Project Components.  The project components are summarized below. IDA financing of US$15 
million is considered. 
 
(i) Support for government multi-sectoral response through policy formulation and 
implementation.
 This sub-component would strengthen the capacity of ministries and other 
public agencies, rural organizations, private sector organizations and civil society in general at 
the central and regional levels, to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting a) further 
development of an integrated national HIV/AIDS strategic plan for 2005-2010; b) the 
preparation and supervision of implementation of action plans in order to achieve a major 
expansion of HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities; and c) capacity enhancement for public 
and private sector institutions involved in HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Most activities will be 
contracted out to local or international firms specialized in communications or training. 
 
(ii) Strengthening government, private sector, civil society and community-based response to 
HIV/AIDS
. The component will seek to enhance the effectiveness of (a) the national health 
system in the area of HIV/AIDS, (b) line ministries in the design and implementation of sectoral 
action plans, and (c) private sector, NGOs and communities in service delivery. Specific modes 
of engagement will be: awareness raising and education, testing, treatment and care.    
 
Awareness Raising and Education
.
 
The project  would provide support for heightening 
awareness of the HIV/AIDS issues through provision of information, education and 
communication. Partnerships with the private sector through joint financing and 
implementation will be sought. The target audience will include members of the private and 
public sectors,  non-governmental organizations, schools  and rural communities. 
 
Testing. 
The project will support the expansion of testing services and encourage nationwide 
voluntary testing. In addition to a reference laboratory in Bamako, there would be a network 
of laboratories whose staff would be trained and accredited to carry out testing and 
monitoring. The focus would initially be on regions with the most urgent needs, and be 
expanded geographically over time. The private sector is keen to develop  partnerships in this 
area. 
 
Treatment and care. 
The project will help increase access to drugs, counseling, and care for 
PLWHA. Only about 300 people are getting antiretroviral drugs now and the three distribution 
centers are in Bamako.  
 
(iii) Capacity building for sustainable prevention of HIV/AIDS
. This component will consist of 
(a) capacity enhancement for national HIV/AIDS councils, (b) strengthening the capacity of  the 
PNLS and public sector institutions, and (c) empowering private sector and civil society through 
skills enhancement, access to funds and governance. 
 
(iv) Project Management and Coordination.
 The grant would support project management and 
coordination which will be under the responsibility of a team of high level civil servants in the 
President’s Office. This component would provide information systems and technical assistance 
to upgrade procedures essential to the execution of the MAP. The National High Council, in
 
which the participation of the private sector will be increased, will provide guidance to line 
Page  3
 
 
ministries, the private sector and  civil society on ways to mainstream HIV/AIDS activities and 
to identify technical support. The project management and coordination team will: (a) serve as 
the Secretariat of the National High Council, (b) handle day-to-day project management (e.g. 
contracting, financial reporting); (c) coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities that will be 
contracted out. Grant mechanisms will be designed to encourage  initiatives from the private 
sector, civil society and communities to intensify prevention, care and social support services for 
the population at large, and specific target groups such as adolescents, PLWHA and their 
dependents. 
 
The project would be supported with a grant of US$15.0 million as provided for in CAS. 
 
Indicators
 
-Number of key line Ministries implementing agreed action plans to control HIV/AIDS 
-Private sector and civil service implementation of own actions plans and participation level in delivery 
of HIV/AIDS MAP services 
-Percentage of the population reached in terms of awareness through private sector, civil society and 
community based HIV/AIDS initiatives (e.g. at least 55% of high risk groups -men in uniform, miners 
and commercial sex workers- used condoms during their last sexual encounter in 2008) 
-Number of people who have gained access to prevention, care and support services (e.g. at least 50% 
of PLWHA have access to drugs). 
 
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
 
The project will be managed in Bamako, Mali, and it will have a national coverage
. 
 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity 
 
Even though Mali is in the process of implementing its third national strategic plan against 
HIV/AIDS, institutional capacity remains weak. Assistance to strengthen the needed capacity 
will be provided in the context of the proposed project. 
 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[x ] 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01)  
A waste management plan will be prepared by the borrower, reviewed by 
ASPEN, approved and disclosed in-country and at InfoShop prior to appraisal. 
 
 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
 
 
[ ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
 
 
Page  4
 
 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
 
 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
) 
 
 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
 
 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
 
 
[ ] 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
) 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 
7.50) 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Assessment Category:
    
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
If TBD, explain follow-up and calendar/steps for the determination of the category:    
 
 
Safeguard Policies Classification:
    
[ ] S
1
   [ X] S
2
  [] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
If TBD, explain follow-up and calendar/steps for the determination of the classification:    
 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage 
ISDS would be prepared : March 9, 2004 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-
stage ISDS 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be 
needed. The specific studies and their timing
1
 should be specified in the PAD-stage 
ISDS. 
 
 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
1
 Reminder: The Bank’s Disclosure policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal 
(i) at the InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible 
to potentially affected persons.   
Page  5
 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Name: Francois Nankobogo 
Date: 2/4/ 2004 
Approved by: 
 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Name: Serigne Omar Fye 
Date: 2/4/2004 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Name: Demba Ba 
Date: 2/4/2004 
Comments 
 
 
