Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB391 
Project Name 
Mali - Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project (MAP) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P082957 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
Bureau de Coordination du PNLS 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 10, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 22, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 20, 2004 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mali needs to put in place a major and cross-sectoral effort to prevent an HIV/AIDS epidemic 
which would  threaten  its development. Although the known prevalence rate is still relatively 
low at 1.7%, some population segments (e.g. commercial sex workers, truck drivers) show much 
higher rates (up to 30%).  Mali remains particularly vulnerable to the rapid increase of the 
epidemic because of high migration patterns of populations that have high-risk behavior and  
infection rates; the lack of appropriate interventions to prevent the spread of the disease; 
widespread poverty (69%), and gender inequities and traditional cultural norms.
1
 Close 
proximity to Burkina Faso and Cote d’Ivoire, countries with substantially higher prevalence 
rates, and high population mobility between Mali and these countries increases the risks for Mali. 
Knowledge of HIV/AIDS is very limited. Particularly worrisome are the results of a recent 
survey, which indicate a relatively high level of promiscuity among young people (ages 15 to 20) 
and low condom use, while two thirds of the young people surveyed profess not to believe in the 
existence of HIV/AIDS. 
 
Government strategy 
 To respond to the challenges of the spread of HIV/AIDS, the Government 
has developed a five-year national strategy (
Plan Stratégique National de Lutte contre le 
VIH/SIDA
 dated January 2001) to combat the epidemic. The strategy spells out the institutional 
structure to carry it out; this includes a National High Council on HIV/AIDS presided by the 
Head of State, and a National Council on HIV/AIDS, chaired by  the Minister of Health. The 
“
Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA
” (PNLS), reporting to the National Health 
Directorate in the Ministry of Health, serves as the Secretariat to the latter Council. To 
implement is strategy to combat HIV/AIDS, the Government has requested IDA’s financial and 
technical assistance. 
 
                                                
 
1
 HIV/AIDS Assessment for USAID Mali Strategy Development, May 13, 2003. 
Page  2
 
 
Government’s commitment. 
The Government has satisfied the four criteria for MAP 
participation: (a) it has formulated a comprehensive strategy on HIV/AIDS; (b) it has formed the 
High National High Council on HIV/AIDS  headed by the President; it has taken a number of 
concrete actions, including  the implementation of two 3-year HIV/AIDS national programs; (c) 
it has funded implementation agencies through its ten-year health program and is interested in 
continuing to do so; and (d) it has agreed to use appropriate implementation arrangements, and to 
contract out activities when appropriate, especially for service delivery and quality control. The 
Government will establish a Secretariat to coordinate implementation of the HIV/AIDS program 
under the supervision of the National High Council on HIV/AIDS.  
 
Relation to the CAS.
 The CAS, which was approved
 
by the Board on July 31, 2003, identifies the 
reversal of the spread of HIV/AIDS as one of its key development objectives. This operation, 
which is provided for in the CAS base case scenario, will encourage and pull together sectoral 
efforts, and  put in place programs in critical sectors such as agriculture, education, transport, 
mining, the army. 
 
Lessons from Bank experience. 
The project builds on the experience accumulated in designing 
and implementing MAP s in over 25 countries. Cross-fertilization with neighboring countries 
having similar programs, namely Mauritania, Burkina Faso, Guinea and Senegal, will be sought. 
The Bank’s public-private partnership experience is also directly applicable to this project.  
 
Other partners’ involvement. 
 There are a large number of projects supported by other partners 
but they are relatively narrow in scope
.
 Several donors have provided support to the 
Government’s initiative, including UNAIDS, WHO, USAID, Canada, France and Switzerland. 
IDA’s assistance within the MAP framework will be closely coordinated with assistance 
provided by these and other donors. In addition to official donors and non-governmental 
organizations working in the field, several private companies, such as  Coca Cola, BioMérieux, 
Bristol-Meyers Squibb, Shell, TOTAL/Elf, and To Mali have shown significant interest in 
participating in this project 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.  
The project will be designed to maximize the involvement of 
the private sector and  civil society in a comprehensive strategy to combat the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic, and to scale up isolated successful interventions to national programs, involving not 
only the health sector but also civil society,
 
the private sector, and NGOs, thereby elevating 
HIV/AIDS from a purely health to a fundamental development issue. So far, involvement of the 
private sector in the execution of the national strategy has been limited, although it is widely 
recognized that the business community has an important role to play. The Bank’s involvement 
through this project is expected to (i) foster a multi-sectoral approach to the epidemic; 
(ii) stimulate substantial private sector and civil society participation in service delivery, and 
(iii) build lasting capacity to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS. The project activities, which will 
be coordinated with those of other donors, will provide the Government with resources to scale 
up existing activities in a coherent way over four years. The Bank also has a comparative 
advantage in strengthening institutions, establishing systems that enhance large programs’ 
effectiveness, and fostering transparency and governance which are critical in delivering 
HIV/AIDS services in a decentralized manner. 
 
Page  3
 
 
2.  Proposed project development objective(s) 
 
The project objective is to help Mali reverse the trend of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, through 
strengthened policy-making and implementation capacity, increased awareness and voluntary 
testing to prevent new infections, and increased access to treatment and care. This will be done 
principally through: a) an update of the national plan against HIV/AIDS for the period FY05-10; 
b) support to private sector, particularly through a business council to be set up, civil society
2
, 
public sector and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS prevention and care; and c) the 
establishment of an efficient multi-sector institutional and operational framework for project 
implementation. The project will complement other ongoing HIV/AIDS prevention initiatives. 
 
3.  Preliminary project description 
 
Alternative approaches. 
The “no project” alternative is not desirable due to the risk of increase in 
morbidity and mortality from AIDS advancing rapidly.  Without adequate intervention, the AIDS 
epidemic in Mali can be expected to follow the same course as neighboring countries, with up to 
20% of adults becoming HIV positive. Other alternative approaches would have been to have 
HIV/AIDS activities covered in various sector-specific projects, but the multi-sectoral approach 
is likely to be more effective and sustainable. 
 
Project Components.  
The project components are summarized below. IDA financing of about 
US$15 million is contemplated.   
 
(i) Support for government multi-sectoral response through policy formulation and 
implementation.
 This sub-component would strengthen the capacity of ministries and other 
public agencies, rural organizations, private sector organizations and civil society in general at 
the central and regional levels, to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting a) further 
development of an integrated national HIV/AIDS strategic plan for 2005-2010; b) the 
preparation and supervision of implementation of action plans in order to achieve a major 
expansion of HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities; and c) the strengthening of public and 
private institutions involved in HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Most activities will be contracted 
out to local or international firms specialized in communications or training. 
 
(ii) Strengthening government, private sector, civil society and community-based response to 
HIV/AIDS
. The component will seek to enhance the effectiveness of (a) the national health 
system in the area of HIV/AIDS, (b) line ministries in the design and implementation of sectoral 
action plans, and (c) private sector, NGOs and communities in service delivery. Specific modes 
of engagement will be: awareness raising and education, testing, treatment and care.    
 
Awareness Raising and Education.
 The project  would provide support for heightening 
awareness of the HIV/AIDS issues through provision of information, education and 
communication. Partnerships with the private sector through joint financing and 
implementation will be sought. The target audience will include members of the private and 
public sectors,  non-governmental organizations, schools  and rural communities. 
 
                                                
 
2
 The health sector NGO umbrella organization “Groupe Pivot”  will be the main partner. 
Page  4
 
 
Testing
. The project will support the expansion of testing services and encourage nationwide 
voluntary testing. In addition to a reference laboratory in Bamako, there would be a network 
of laboratories whose staff would be trained and accredited to carry out testing and 
monitoring. The focus would initially be on regions with the most urgent needs, and be 
expanded geographically over time. The private sector is keen to develop  partnerships in this 
area. 
 
Treatment and care
. The project will help increase access to drugs, counseling, and care for 
PLWHA. Only about 300 people are getting antiretroviral drugs now and the three distribution 
centers are in Bamako.  
 
(iii) Capacity building for sustainable prevention of HIV/AIDS
. This component will consist of 
(a) capacity enhancement for national HIV/AIDS councils, (b) strengthening the capacity of  the 
PNLS and public sector institutions, and (c) empowering private sector and civil society through 
skills enhancement, access to funds and governance. 
 
(iv) Project Management and Coordination.
 The grant would support project management and 
coordination which will be under the responsibility of a team of high level civil servants in the 
President’s Office. This component would provide information systems and technical assistance 
to upgrade procedures essential to the execution of the MAP. The National High Council, in 
which the participation of the private sector will be increased, will provide guidance to line 
ministries, the private sector and  civil society on ways to mainstream HIV/AIDS activities and 
to identify technical support. The project management and coordination team will: (a) serve as 
the Secretariat of the National High Council, (b) handle day-to-day project management (e.g. 
contracting, financial reporting); (c) coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities that will be 
contracted out. Grant mechanisms will be designed to encourage  initiatives from the private 
sector, civil society and communities to intensify prevention, care and social support services for 
the population at large, and specific target groups such as adolescents, PLWHA and their 
dependents. 
 
The project would be supported with a grant of US$15.0 million as provided for in CAS. 
 
Indicators
 
-Number of key line Ministries implementing agreed action plans to control HIV/AIDS 
-Private sector and civil service implementation of own actions plans and participation level in delivery 
of HIV/AIDS MAP services 
-Percentage of the population reached in terms of awareness through private sector, civil society and 
community based HIV/AIDS initiatives (e.g. at least 55% of high risk groups -men in uniform, miners 
and commercial sex workers- used condoms during their last sexual encounter in 2008) 
-Number of people who have gained access to prevention, care and support services (e.g. at least 50% 
of PLWHA have access to drugs). 
 
Page  5
 
 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The project falls under category B for environmental safeguards. An environmental pre-audit 
will be prepared and disclosed in country and at the Bank’s Info-Shop prior to project appraisal.  
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 1 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
15 
 Total 
16 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Francois Nankobogo 
Title: Sr Operations Off. 
Tel: (202) 473-4589 
Fax: (202) 473-8575 
Email: Fnankobogo@worldbank.org
 
