Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17591
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1929-TO)
April 1, 1998
Agriculture Sector
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
CFA franc 1 = US$ 0.002
US$ 1 = 575 CFA francs
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFAF        CFA Franc (Currency issued by the Central Bank of West African Countries)
ERAC        Economic Recovery Project (Cr. 2849-TO)
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation)
GPC         Groupement de Producteurs de Coton (Cotton Farmers Group)
ICAT        Institut de Conseil et d'Appui Technique (Technical Advisory and ,Support Institute)
IRCT        Institut pour la Recherche sur le Coton et les Textiles (Research Institute on Cotton and
Textiles)
ITRA        Institut Togolais de Recherche Agricole (Togolese Institute for Agricultural Research)
OPAT        Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (Togolese Office ofAgricultural Products)
PUGPC       Prefectorial Union of GPCs
SICOT       Societe Industrielle du Coton (Cotton Industrial Company)
SOTOCO    Societe Togolaise du Coton (Togo Cotton Company)
FISCAL YEAR
Government's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
SOTOCO's Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Vice President      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director            Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager      Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader    Christian Fauliau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1929-TO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                               iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                     v
PART I. EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Introduction                                                    1
Project Objectives                                               1
Achievement of Project Objectives                               2
Implementation Evaluation and Factors affecting the Project     3
Project Sustainability                                          10
Bank Performance                                                11
Borrower Performance                                            11
Assessment of Outcome                                           12
Future Operations                                               12
Key Lessons Learned                                             12
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Summary of Assessments                                          13
Related IDA or co-financed Loans/Credits                        15
Project timetable                                               16
Loan/Credit Disbursements                                       16
Key Indicators for Project Implementation                       17
Key Indicators for Project Operation                            19
Studies Included in Project                                     20
Project Costs                                                   21
Project Financing                                               21
Economic Costs and Benefits                                     22
Status of Legal Covenants                                       23
Compliance with Operation manuals Statements                    26
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                    26
Bank Resources: Missions                                        27
ANNEXES
Aide Memoire                                                    31
Borrower's Evaluation                                           35
MAPS: :IBRD-21023R and 21024R
This document has a restricted distribution and rmay be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1929-TO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cotton Sector Development Project for
which Credit 1929-TO in the amount of SDR 10.9 million (US$15.1 million equivalent) was approved
on June 21, 1988, and made effective on August 17, 1989. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, four
years beyond the original closing date of June 30, 1993. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement
took place on July 8, 1997. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (now Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement) and the Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Christian Fauliau.I It was reviewed by Jean Paul Chausse
(Sector Manager, AFTA3) and Theodore Ahlers (Country Director). The co-financiers did not provide
comments on the ICR. The Borrower's comments are fully reflected in the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR started with the Bank's ICR mission in October 1997. It is based on material in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in
the mission's aide-memoire and preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution.2  The
Borrower's report is included as an appendix.
Team members were Hugues Agossou, Koffi Egbeto (AFMTO); Gerard Pallix (Consultant); Dirk
Prevoo, Soulemane Fofana, and Brigitte Kerby-Dia (AFTA3).
2   The Borrower's evaluation report is fully reflected in the ICR.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1929-TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Cotton Sector Development Project was a continuation of previous joint financing by IDA,
CCCE and FAC for the development and modernization of the cotton sector in Togo. The evolution of
the country's general economic context had increased the urgency of rendering the sub-sector more
efficient.  Indeed, cotton's contribution to the Togolese economic and social development is
considerable. In 1987, it was cultivated by 132,000 farmers, about half the country's total, for whom it
represented the most important source of cash income. At the time, the main constraints facing the
sector were the absence of incentives for farmers to invest in new technologies that would raise
productivity, and weak support services. As part of its Medium-Term Rural Development Strategy,
promulgated in March 1985, Government had increased the farmgate price to between 85 and 95 percent
of the f.o.b. price, net of marketing and processing costs. However, declining world market prices,
combined with an appreciating exchange rate and inefficient local marketing and processing, diminished
the impact of these incentives.  The implementing agency was the Togolese Cotton Company
(SOTOCO), a public enterprise created in 1974 to promote the farming, marketing and processing of
cotton. It held broad responsibilities in rural development (agricultural extension, adaptive research,
inputs provision, promotion of farmer groups, and maintenance of feeder roads).  SOTOCO had
satisfactorily implemented the two predecessor projects (Cotton Area Development Project, Cr. 741-TO,
from 1977 to 1982, and the Second Cotton Area Development Project, Cr. 1302-TO, from 1983 to 1991).
Project Objectives
2.    The project had as its objectives to increase the production of cotton and food crops, improve the
efficiency of operations in the cotton sector and strengthen incentives to the sector's participants. By its
completion, it was to have reached 168,000 farmers (about 60 percent of the total), increased cotton
production from 85,000 tons to 133,100 tons and yielded a 25 percent decline in cotton's processing and
marketing cotst. Furthermore, SOTOCO was to operate on a financially independent and commercial
basis by the end of the project.
3.    The project's objectives were clearly defined and formed a coherent link with the Bank's overall
country assistance strategy. Conditionality of the credit was closely linked with the then ongoing
adjustment program and later with the Economic Recovery Project (ERAC, Cr. 2849-TO). Its objectives
were reasonable in that substantial scope existed for the reduction of production costs and that Togolese
cotton could remain competitive even in an environment of declining international prices. The project's
objectives were, however, optimistic concerning the time needed to implement the required institutional
reforms and the impact these would have on production and costs, given past implementation experience
in Togo and other countries. Also. the economic analysis was overly optimistic, assuming that the
without project production increases of cotton and food crops would be zero, thereby effectively
attributing all benefits of prior investments and reforms (it was the third operation in the sector) to the
project. Expected production increases for food crops were also high given the disappointing experience



vi
under the predecessor project and the difficulty in addressing a key constraint to increased production,
i.e. market outlets. The steeper than expected decline of cotton prices in CFA franc (CFAF) terms,
which impacted negatively on farmers' incentives and production, could riot, however, have been
predicted at project preparation.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     The project was implemented from August 1989 to June 1997 and required three extensions.
The extensions were needed to compensate for the time lost due to delays in meeting effectiveness
conditions (14 months delay) and the socio-political unrest between 1992 and 1994, which destabilized
production activities and effectively halted the implementation of institutional reforms. Actual project
costs are estimated at US$29.5 million (US$37.5 million estimated at appraisal).  Financing was
provided by IDA in the amount of US$15.2 million (US$15.1 million planned), the Fonds d'Aide et de
Coop6ration in the amount of US$3.3 million (US$2.7 million planned), the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique in the amount of US$11.6 million (US$11.5 million planned), the Government
in the amount of US$0.2 million (US$7.1 million planned). It is not known if and by how much project
beneficiaries contributed (US$1.9 million planned).
5.    Project implementation was affected by three major events: the aforementioned socio-political
unrest between 1992 and 1994; the unexpected drop in the world market price of cotton (-30% between
1990 and 1993) combined with an overvalued exchange rate, affecting the 1991/92 and 1992/93
campaigns; and the fifty percent devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, which helped restore the
cotton sector's competitiveness.
6.    The project fully met its production objectives. Cotton production increased from 85,000 tons in
1987/88 to 146,473 tons in 1996/97 (84,517 tons in 1993/94), and the number of cotton growing farmers
rose from 132,000 to about 200,000. It is unclear how much of the production increase was directly due
to the project and how much was due to the January 1994 CFAF devaluation. However, the project
increased cotton yields, albeit marginally less than estimated (average yield of 1,225 kg/ha versus 1,256
kg/ha planned and an average yield of 1,039 kg/ha during the previous project); and producer prices for
cotton kept pace with world market developments. At present, Togolese farmers receive almost the
highest price for seed cotton (190 CFAF/kg) in West Africa, plus a 50 percent share of SOTOCO's
profits. In constant 1987 terns, producer prices increased by about 20 percent during the project period.
In addition, SOTOCO was able to reduce significantly its ginning costs from about 487 CFAF in 1987 to
about 380 CFAF in 1996/97 per kg of fiber (in constant 1987 prices).3 Efficiency gains were the results
of a variety of measures supported under the project, including a larger than expected utilization of the
private sector for transporting inputs, a better utilization of SOTOCO's fleet, the elimination of
subsidies, the transfer of certain activities to Cotton Farmer Groups (GPCs), increased throughput
(although the expected increase in ginning rates did not materialize), changes in the acquisition of inputs,
etc. The expected savings from transfering of marketing responsibilities from the export marketing
parastatal (OPAT, Office des Produits Agricoles) to SOTOCO, were delayed as this did not become
effective until late in the project. The delay in the transfer of marketing responsibilities negatively
impacted SOTOCO's ability to translate increased efficiency into profitability. The project successfully
increased food crop production and exceeded appraisal estimates for all crops but sorghum, although
The Staff Appraisal Report expressed the production costs in CFAF rather than in US$, the currency in which
cotton prices are quoted on the world market. In current US$ terms, production costs declined from US$1.76
in 1987 to US$1.37 in 1996 per kg of fiber.



vii
yields were less than planned. The latter were negatively affected by higher input prices as a result of the
removal of subsidies, the expansion of production into marginal areas, and inadequate extension support.
However, appraisal estimates for yields were relatively high from a historic perspective. SOTOCO was
successful in creating 1,739 additional GPCs for a total of 2,195 GPCs currently and in transferring all
activities related to the primary collection of cotton and inputs management to GPCs, thereby exceeding
appraisal estimates by 100 percent. In addition GPCs became active in literacy training and are
gradually taking on other functions (e.g, commercial seeds production, credit). GPCs are now being
given legal recognition, 26 Prefectoral Unions have been established, and a National Federation was in
the process of being formed at the time of Credit closing. An other major achievement of the project was
the opening up of the sector to private investors with the establishment of the Industrial Cotton Company
(SICOT). The only area in which the project was unable to achieve its institutional objectives was in
respect of the financial and administrative autonomy of SOTOCO.
7.    Based on the aforementioned, the project's outcome is judged satisfactory. The ICR mission
could not collect all[ the information necessary to replicate the economic and financial analyses carried
out at appraisal. A relatively simple economic analysis was therefore carried out, which resulted in an
re-estimated Economic Rate of Return of between 11  and 16 percent. This rate is low in comparison
with the appraisal estimate of over 50 percent, but can be largely explained by the highly negative impact
of the drop in cotton prices during the early phases of project implementation; the optimistic assumptions
regarding the speed of institutional reforms and their impact on production and productivity; and the also
optimistic assumptions regarding food crop production, that failed to materialize until late.
8.    The project's achievements are sustainable. Producers have acquired a better technical know-
how, higher incomes and are better organized. The private sector is now involved in the cotton sector
and SOTOCO is now better placed to be privatized as part of Government's strategy to withdraw from
commercial activities.
9.     The Bank's performance was mixed. It was deficient at the preparation and appraisal stages of
the project (over-estimation of project impact on food crops production and under-estimation of the time
necessary to implement the planned institutional reforms). Bank performance was satisfactory during
project implementation. The Borrower's performance was deficient during project implementation. It
delayed the necessary institutional reforms or did not implement them. SOTOCO's performance was
satisfactory, with the exception of the planned cost-efficiency study of its operations, which it never
carried out.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.    SOTOCO did not prepare a formal plan for the future operation of the project, and no future
operation is planned. The Bank is, however, providing advice to the Government for completing the full
liberalization of the cotton sector. SOTOCO is expected to be privatized under the Government's
strategy to withdraw from commercial activities. The agricultural services provided under the project
will be taken over by autonomous semi-private agencies that were created as part of the recently
approved National Agricultural Services Support Project.
11.   Three key lessons can be learned from the implementation of this project:
(a)    The need to have a close coordination between macro-level reforms and sectoral
investment projects in order to maximize the impact of investments. The close link with



viii
ERAC was instrumental in Government's acceptance of the liberalization of cotton
export marketing;
(b)    A mid-term review is an essential instrument to gauge not only the effectiveness of
project implementation, but also the need to validate project objectives and redesign its
approaches and activities to take into account changing circumstances. In the case of
this project, no mid-term review was carried out. However, The project's objectives, as
interpreted by Bank staff and Government officials, slowly evolved from an emphasis on
production and efficiencies to institutional reform. The lack of a mid-term review and
project redesign had no impact on the final outcome, but it could have been an
appropriate forum to highlight slow progress in key areas (e.g., OPAT, price support
fund);
(c)    Institutional reforms requires time to build consensus and be implemented, and their
impact is generally slower than expected. This needs to be factored into project design
and the expected benefit stream.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1929-TO)
PART I: EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Introduction
1.    The Cotton Sector Development Project (Cotton III) was the third project supported by IDA in
the cotton sector.  The first project, the Cotton Area Development Project (Cr. 741-TO), was
implemented from 1977 until 1982. The Second Cotton Area Development Project (Cr. 1302-TO) was
implemented from 1983 until 1991. Its main objective was to increase the production of both cotton and
food crops.  The initial cotton production targets were substantially exceeded.  As a result, a
Supplementary Credit was approved in April 1986 to finance the construction of a fourth ginnery, and
the implementation period was extended. However, delays in construction and a sharper than expected
decline of world cotton prices in 1986 led to a reassessment of the need for this fourth ginnery. The
proposal was abandoned and the supplementary credit canceled. The main physical and institutional
objectives of the project were however achieved and, overall, the results of the project were satisfactory:
cotton production increased rapidly and exceeded appraisal projections by over 100 percent, while
incremental food crop production was below target.
2.    In 1987, cotton cultivation was practiced by 132,000 farmers, about half the country's total, and
annual production growth averaged about 8 percent over the 1970s and 1980s. Most of this growth
resulted, however, from area expansion and not from productivity increases. Togo's cotton was
considered of good quality and its production costs were among the lowest in West Africa. Because of
cotton's importance in the social and economic development of Togo, and of its growth potential, it was
decided to continue the support to the sector, with a focus on increased competitiveness and incentives to
producers.
3.    The main constraints to cotton sector development at the time of project preparation (1987) were
the absence of economic incentives for farmers to invest in new technologies that would increase
productivity and decrease production costs, and weak agricultural support services (agronomic research
and extension). As part of its Medium-Term Rural Development Strategy, promulgated in March 1985,
Government had initiated increasing the farmgate price to between 85 and 95 percent of the f.o.b. price,
net of marketing and processing costs. However, declining world market prices, combined with an
appreciating exchange rate and inefficient local marketing and processing, which represents a high
implicit taxation on producers, diminished the impact of these incentives.
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The project had as its objectives to increase the production of cotton and food crops, improve the
efficiency of operations in the cotton sector and strengthen incentives to the sector's participants. The
project was to be implemented through the greater part of Togo. By its completion it was to have
reached 168,000 farmers (about 60 percent of the total number of farmers in the country), increased
cotton production from 85,000 tons to 133,100 tons and yielded a 25 percent decline in cotton's
processing and marketing costs. Furthermore, the Togolese Cotton Company (SOTOCO, Societe



2
Togolaise du Coton) was to operate on a financially independenit and commercial basis by the end of the
project.
5.    In support of these objectives, the project included three componenits:
(a)    Agricultural productivity and production  program, aimed  at raising  farm-level
productivity and production of cotton and food crops by improving the effectiveness of
SOTOCO's support services, including agricultural extension, adaptive research. input
supply, training, monitoring and evaluation, and feeder roads maintenance.
(b)    Efficiency improvements in cotton sector operations (cotton processing, and primary and
export marketing).
(c)    Producer pricing policy.
6.     The project was to be implemented over four years at a cost of US$37.5 million. Financing was
to be provided by IDA (US$15.1 million), the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE,
US$11.5 million), the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC, US$3.3 million), Cotton Farmers Groups
(GPCs, US$0.5 million) and the Government of Togo (US$7. 1 million).4
7.     The project's objectives were clearly defined and formed a coherent link with the Bank's country
assistance strategy. Conditionality of the credit was closely linked with the ongoing adjustment program
and later with the Economic Recovery Project (ERAC; Cr. 2849-TO). Its objectives were valid in that
substantial scope existed for the reduction of production costs and that Togolese cotton could remain
competitive in an environment of declining international prices. The project's objectives were, however,
optimistic concerning the time needed to implement the required institutional reforms and the impact
these would have on production and costs, given past implementation experience in Togo and other
countries. Also, the economic analysis was overly optimistic and assumed that the without project
production increases of cotton and food crops would be zero, thereby effectively attributing all benefits
of prior investments to the third project and ignoring the costs of previous investments. Expected
production increases for food crops were high given the disappointing experience under the predecessor
project and the difficulty in addressing a key constraint to increased production, i.e. market outlets. The
steeper than expected decline of cotton prices in CFA Franc (CFAF) terms could however not have been
predicted at project preparation.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The project fully met its production objectives. Cotton production increased from 85,000 tons in
1987/88 to 146,473 tons in 1996/97, and the number of cotton growing farrners rose from 132,000 to
about 200,000. It is unclear how much of the production increase was due to the project and how much
due to the January 1994 CFAF devaluation which dramatically restored the international competitiveness
of Togo. However, the project increased cotton yields, albeit marginally less than estimated (average
yield of 1,225 kg/ha versus 1,256 kg/ha planned and an average yield of 1,039 kg/ha during the previous
project). Producer prices for cotton kept pace with world market developments. At the present time,
Togolese farmers receive almost the highest price for seed cotton (190 CFAF/kg) in West Africa, plus a
50 percent share of SOTOCO's profits. In constant 1987 terms, producer prices increased by about 20
4   US$3.5 million to finance the tax portion of the project costs.



3
percent during the project. In addition, SOTOCO was able to substantially reduce its ginning costs from
about 487 CFAF' in 1987 to about 380 CFAF in 1996/97 per kg of fiber (in constant 1987 prices).5
Efficiency gains were the results of a variety of measures supported under the project, including a larger
thain expected utilization of the private sector for transporting inputs, a better utilization of SOTOCO's
fleet, the elimination of subsidies, the transfer of certain activities to Cotton Farmer Groups (GPCs),
increased througlhput (although the expected increase in ginning rates did not materialize), changes in the
acquisition of inputs, etc. Less than expected savings were obtained from the transfer of marketing
responsibilities from the export marketing parastatal (OPAT, Office des Produits Agricoles) to
SOTOCO, as this did not become effective until late in the project. The delay in the transfer of
marketing responsibilities negatively impacted on SOTOCO's ability to translate increased efficiency
into profitability. The project successfully increased food crop production and exceeded appraisal
estimates for all crops but sorghum, although yields were less than planned. The latter were negatively
affected by higher input prices as a result of the removal of subsidies, the expansion of production into
marginal areas, and inadequate extension support.  Moreover, appraisal estimates for yields were
relatively optimistic from a historic perspective. SOTOCO was successful in creating 1,739 new GPCs
(for a total of 2,195 GPCs at the end of the project) and in transferring all activities related to the primary
collection of cotton and inputs management to GPCs, thereby exceeding appraisal estimates by 100
percent. In addition, GPCs became active in literacy training and are gradually taking on other functions
(e.g., commercial seeds production, credit). GPCs are now being given legal recognition, 26 Prefectoral
Unions have been established, and a National Federation was in the process of being formed at the time
of Credit closing. An other major achievement was the opening of the sector to private investors with
the establishment of the Industrial Cotton Company (SICOT). The only area in which the project was
unable to achieve its objectives was with respect to the financial and administrative autonomy for
SOTOCO.
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
9.     The IDA Credit (1929-TO) in the amount of SDR 10.9 million (US$15.1 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board on June 21, 1988, and became effective 14 months later, on August 17, 1989.
The delay was caused by very slow progress in meeting credit conditionalities: (i) the new pricing policy
was not approved by the Government until December 20, 1988; (ii) the adoption of SOTOCO's new
statutes had to be changed from a condition of effectiveness to a dated covenant on April 20, 1989,
because part of the legislative framework supporting the proposed statutes was unlikely to be adopted
until the spring of 1990; (iii) the subsidiary loan agreement with SOTOCO was not signed until April 26,
1989; and (iv) the decree establishing the fiduciary committee, which overseas operations in the cotton
sector, was not issued until August 9, 1989. The project was effectivly implemented from August 1989
to June 1997 and required three extensions beyond the original closing date of June 30, 1993. The
extensions were needed to compensate for the effects of the socio-political crisis that affected Togo in
1991-93 (see para. 10) and the significant delay in credit effectiveness. Actual project costs are
estimated at US$29.7 million, with IDA contributing US$15.2 million, CCCE US$11.6 million, FAC
US$ 2.7 million and Government US$0.2 million.6
5   The Staff Appraisal Report expressed the production costs in CFAF rather than in US$, the currency in which
cotton prices are quoted on the world market. In current US$ terms, production costs declined from US$1.76
in 1987 to US$1.37 in 1996.
6   It is not known how much Government contributed for taxes.



4
Major Factors Not Subject to Government Control
10.    Three main factors outside of Government control affected project implementation. The first
was the deep political crisis in 1991, triggered by increasing pressure to establish a multi-party system,
which led to a protracted period of political instability and a nine-months strike. The political instability
took a heavy toll on Togo's economic and social infrastructure. Major bilateral donors and the European
Union suspended aid to Togo because of the lack of progress on political reforrn. It is estimated that real
GDP fell by about 22 percent between 1991 and 1993, while government revenues and investment
expenditures fell by about 62 and 75 percent, respectively. Physical infrastructure deteriorated sharply as
a result of a three-year lack of maintenance and investment. It was not until 1994, with the improvement
in political and security conditions, together with Togo's increased competitiveness resulting from the
1994 CFAF devaluation, that economic activity took off again, led by the private sector.
11.    The second factor was the increasing overvaluation of the CFAF which progressively reduced
the country's competitiveness vis-a-vis cotton producers outside the CFAF zone. It was not until the
devaluation in January 1994, from 50 FF per CFAF to 100 FF per CFAF, that competitiveness and
incentives were restored and production resumed its upward trend. The delays in the devaluation,
combined with the socio-political crisis, had a particularly negative effect on the financial status of
SOTOCO, and prevented the company from reaching its financial targets until the very end of the
project.
12.   The third factor was the unexpected drop in the world market price for cotton between 1990 and
1993 (a 30 percent decline), which negatively affected the profitability of seed cotton production.
Major Factors Subject to Government Control
13.   The Government was very slow in implementing most agreed actions on restructuring the
industry. At the end of the project, SOTOCO still remained under close supervision of the Government,
and its management still lacks financial and managerial autonomy, despite the recommendations of a
study completed in 1992 -- and covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (see also Part II, Table
10) -- which recommended reducing SOTOCO's extension staff from 1,250 to 650 and giving the
company financial and managerial autonomy. Moreover, SOTOCO has no autonomy in setting the
prices of cotton, as this is done by Ministerial decree, usually too late to have a positive impact on the
cropping season. The Government also delayed the transfer of the responsibility for the marketing of
cotton fiber from OPAT to SOTOCO until the end of 1995. This had a negative impact on margins in
the sector given OPAT's high overhead costs, poor quality of storage and lack of financial transparency.
The Government did not establish the agreed upon Price Support Fund, which would have benefited not
only producers but the entire sub-sector, as experience in Mali has shown.
Implementation Record
Agricultural Productivity and Production Component
14.    This component included several activities (agricultural extension, adaptive research, input
supply, training, and feeder roads maintenance) that were expected to increase productivity and, thus,
overall production. A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) sub-component was included to track project
progress.



5
15.   Agricultural Extenision. The design of extension centered on a farming systems approach and
was based on the training-and-visit method.  However, implementation quickly diverted from the
original plans because of a reluctance by farmers to host group visits and declining means at the disposal
of extension agents due to the socio-political and economic crisis. Extension messages were therefore
refocussed on cotton production only.  The following technical messages were extended: (i)
dissemination of high potential seeds; (ii) sowing density (which was adopted to varying degrees, with
densities as low as 70 percent of the recommended maximum); (iii) sowing period (difficult to adhere to
because of climatic reasons and farmers' habits); (iv) more efficient use of inputs (reduced use of
fertilizers and insecticides); and (v) crop maintenance (weeding often being neglected because it has to
be done in competition with the cultivation of food crops). Food crop extension was neglected.
16.   The project exceeded its physical objective of 133,100 tons of seed cotton production (146,473
tons in 1996/97) and substantially increased yields from an average of 1,039 kg/ha under the previous
project to an average of 1,225 kg/ha (1,256 kg/ha planned). The dissemination of seeds of the GL7
variety, an improved, glandless, variety with a higher percentage of fiber (about 45 percent), has been a
failure in spite of SOTOCO's support (free inputs for farmers adopting the variety) because
recommended cropping densities were too high for the average farmer and SOTOCO could not introduce
differential pricing (small number of producers spread over a wide area made product separation
difficult). One unexpected side effect of the increased cotton production was the increased demand for
labor, which created local tensions and upward pressure on wage rates. Estimated manual labor needs
increased from about 9.9 million man days in 1989/90 to 13.8 million in 1996/97.
Table 1: Cotton Production
Appraisal Estimates                    Actual
1987/88       1991/92 and     1989/90     1994/95     1996/97
following
Seed Cotton (tons)       85,000          133,100        79,856      131,612    146,473
17.   Food crop production received markedly less technical support than cotton. Appraisal goals for
corn, groundnuts, cowpeas and rice were exceeded, while production of sorghum decreased (see Table
2). Recorded progress was mostly linked to the indirect effects of the project (residual fertility from
investments in cotton) and an increase in the cultivated area, rather than specific project interventions
(most important here were improved seeds and animal traction), as yields for most crops remained either
stable or declined.
Table 2: Food Crops Production
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual
Crops (tons)       1987/88        1991/92    1996/97   1989/90   1991/92   1996/97
Corn                    71,500    105,600   105,600    58,618   91,400    115,522
Sorghum/                52,900     78,780    78,780    61,941   68,222      63,292
millet
Groundnuts              11,840     13,700     13,700     8,122   10,408     25,081
Cowpeas                 15,360     20,580    20,580      9,108   12,385     24,839
Rice                     2,200      6,325      6,325     3,663    5,657     12,979



6
18.   The project also introduced partially subsidized fertilizers adapted to food crops (2,000 tons in
1995/96) and promoted a program of support to cultivation with draft animals. The draft animal
cultivation program had been suspended for three years because of problems with credit recovery. The
new system placed responsibility for credit repayment with GPCs rather than with individual farmers.
The program has been successful: it placed 1,679 animals with farmers and recovery levels have been
high. Demand for good quality draft animals currently exceeds supply, given the relative profitability of
cotton growing and labor constraints.
19.   Applied and Adaptive Research. After the cessation of the scientific cooperation of the French
Institute for Research on Cotton and Textiles (IRCT) in 1993, SOTOCO became solely responsible for
financing research on cotton. In spite of budgetary restrictions, research programs were carried out and
two lines, G18A and H279A. have been selected to replace the current variety (STAM45) starting in
1998. H279A is already at the pre-extension and seed production stage and is expected to yield one
percent gain in ginning percentage. The SOTOCO-supported cotton research was not able to draw on all
the regionally and internationally available agronomic information on the most performing cotton
cultivation systems and quickly adapt them to the Togolese environment.
20.   Integrated pest management was to be introduced through an insect scouting program which
could have potentially reduced the number of sprayings needed, thus reducing the negative impact of
pest management on the environment and the cost of cotton cultivation to farmers. Unfortunately, this
was not carried out.
21.    The construction of the small experimental ginning/textile unit was completed in 1996. The unit
was used to analyze the quality and yield of seed cotton from different areas. With the help of this unit,
it was possible to establish that the cotton variety used (STAM45) was highly susceptible to climate
variations and was the main reason for the stagnating ginning rates.
22.   In the area of food crops, the project supported research on corn, cowpeas and rice. The program
included trials on variety adjustment and demonstration plots. Several improved seeds were made
available to farmers, albeit in relatively small quantities.
23.   Support to Farmer Groups. The development of GPCs was supported in an effort to have a
wider impact on rural development. The approach had been tested during the second project. In 1988,
221 GPCs managed 35 percent (24,000 tons) of the primary marketing of seed cotton. The goal was to
increase this to 50 percent (or about 66,500 tons) by 1992. The groups were closely associated with
SOTOCO and received rebates on inputs and technical assistance from SOTOCO in exchange for their
services (primary collection of cotton seed and inputs management). As a result of the project, the
number of GPCs increased from 356 in 1988 to 2,195 in 1997. In addition, 26 Prefectorial Unions of
GPCs (PUGPCs) were created. The establishment of a National Federation of GPCs was underway at
the time of Credit closing. The project exceeded its objective in this area, and by 1993 all primary
marketing of seed cotton was handled by groups.
24.    The project provided extensive training to GPCs, as experience under the previous project had
shown its importance for long-term sustainability. Especially important was the functional literacy
program, which prepared the groups for taking over some activities previously carried out by SOTOCO.
The literacy program enjoyed rapid development with the introduction in 1993 of the intensive sessions
method to replace spread sessions. Between 1988 and 1997, 308 functional literacy centers were
established, 9,551 participants registered in first grade and 5,910 in last grade. There were 3,123 neo-
literates and 619 voluntary literacy teachers. The literacy program has also trained 119 librarians, 180



7
communicators, and 35 local writers. In addition. 66 libraries were constructed and 3,039 books
acquired.
25.    GPC members, as well as staff of the PUGPC, have benefited from technical and management
training in: (i) marketing (information briefings and awareness at the beginning of each campaign); (ii)
training or retraining of GPC's technical teams on: (a) book-keeping on cotton production and
operational monitoring of production within the GPC; (b) proper establishment and maintenance of
demonstration plots; (c) use of herbicidal techniques (sowing, manuring, phytosanitary treatment,
identification of cotton parasites, etc.); (d) developing agricultural calendars; (e) application of BV101
and maintenance of spraying equipment; (f) use and maintenance of draft animals and tools for
cultivation by animal traction; and (g) organization and implementation of seed cotton marketing, book-
keeping, weighing of cotton, and determination of seed cotton quality; (iii) training of GPC's managers
in cooperative development and management (principles of cooperatives, members' rights and
responsibilities, communication techniques, role of the Board of Directors, and role of representatives at
the PUGPC); (iv) audiovisual support on technical intensification and the efficient operation of GPCs in
collaboration with the Togolese television: and (v) radio programs on cotton farming techniques with
Radio-Lome.
26.    At the legal and regulatory levels, an important effort has been made over the past two years to
give to a large majority of GPCs a separate legal status instead of recognition based solely on their
affiliation with SOTOCO. Consequently, by June 1997, a total of 1,643 (or about 75 percent) GPCs had
been granted legal recognition, while recognition of about 500 other groups was under review.
27.   Agricultural Inputs. The project supported a strategy of transferring activities related to storage
and production imeans (fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, treatment material, batteries) to GPCs. The
specific role played by these groups has thus allowed the emergence of a private sector in these activities.
Under the project, SOTOCO procured the required inputs and placed these with GPCs who sold them on
credit to their members (food crop inputs were not sold on credit, given the poor experience under the
predecessor project). GPCs also took over SOTOCO's role in billing and collecting of campaign credits,
by deducting these from the seed cotton receipts due to farmers at the end of the season.
28.   Until the 1996/97 campaign, SOTOCO directly purchased inputs from suppliers through the
Togolese Phosphate Agency (OTP). It was not until the 1996/97 campaign, when OTP was not able to
supply inputs, that SOTOCO went to the private sector to acquire inputs (fertilizers, pesticides,
herbicides, agricultural equipment, etc.) through competitive bidding. A dozen local and foreign
companies now share a market of 24-34,000 tons of fertilizers. Over the last two campaigns, SOTOCO
has been able to offer cotton farmers the lowest fertilizer price in the sub-region.
29.    The transfer of the purchasing responsibility of inputs from SOTOCO to GPCs was foreseen at
appraisal, but not implemented. Establishing direct contacts between private suppliers and the GPCs
presents difficulties, especially where credit is concerned (pre-financing the cost of inputs and
transportation). Furthermore, it is unlikely that the GPCs would receive more favorable prices at this
stage than they receive at present from SOTOCO because of the relatively small size of their individual
orders.
30.   Seed Production. Production of cotton seed was transferred to selected farmers, with technical
support and inputs provided by SOTOCO. The commercial production of seeds for food crops by GPCs,
supported by SOTOCO, has not met the demand expressed by farmers: 30 tons of corn, corresponding to



8
about 2,000 ha (Ikenne, AB] 1), and 12.9 tons of cowpeas, corresponding to approximately 650 ha
(Vitoco, Vita V), are small amounts in comparison to needs.
31.   Feeder Roads Maintenance. Feeder roads maintenance was neglected until the last three years
of project implementation, primarily because of budgetary problems. After 1993, SOTOCO, supported
by the project, has been able to ensure the annual maintenance of about 3,000 km of rural feeder roads in
the cotton producing areas and execute small rehabilitation works where necessary.7
32.    Training. SOTOCO staff received training in management, computer applications, extension
strategy and tools, and cooperative support. Training was well executed anid in line with needs.
33.   Monzitoring and Evaluation. The M&E function was carried out by SCITOCO, but primarily for
cotton. Work was interrupted by the socio-economic crisis, and efforts to relaunch this activity were
impeded by the departure of the respective manager to the African Institute for Economic and Social
Development (Institut Africain de Developpement Economique et Social, INADES). Data collection
continued, but no analysis was carried out on farm level constraints that could have directed the project's
extension efforts. The M&E function was not transferred to the Ministry of Rural Development as
planned.
34.   Management Support. Technical assistance support has been partially implemented (primarily
management support). In addition, external audit missions were undertaken as well as several missions
to help improve the internal management of SOTOCO. The modernization of the computerized
accounting and management system has been initiated, following a study done in 1994, but its
development is not complete and proves complex. The equipment is heterogeneous and already partly
obsolete. The anticipated fund to pay bonuses to personnel based on ideas thiat led to productivity or
efficiency gains has not been put in place. The planned cost-effectiveness review of SOTOCO was not
carried out.
35.    Cotton Processing.8 SOTOCO has four ginneries: the Kara ginnery with a capacity of 25,000
tons, the Notse ginnery with a capacity of 25,000 tons, and the Talo I and Talo 2 ginneries with a
combined capacity of 50,000 tons. In 1995, a private company, the Industrial C(otton Company (Societe
Industrielle du Coton, SICOT) started operating a ginnery independently. Initially, it had a ginning
agreement with SOTOCO, which had the monopoly on fiber exploitation, but since the liberalization of
ginning and fiber marketing, SICOT gins for itself, purchasing seed cotton, on the basis of a transfer
price determined, through negotiations with SOTOCO, from the international rate. Its ginning has
increased from 5,000 tons in 1994/95 to 35,000 tons in 1996/97.
36.    From 1989 to 1997, SOTOCO's industrial indicators evolved as follows: fiber output from 42.01
to 41.42 percent; kernel output from 54.26 to 54.74 percent; throughput from 9.41 to 10.48 kg/hr; cotton
seed per day from 529 to 727 ton; number of ginning days from 146 to 153; number of bales/hour from
22.8 to 24.91; and average weight of bales from 220 to 231 kg. Compared to appraisal forecasts (1996:
fiber output of 43 percent; kernel output of 54 percent), the kernel output is slightly higher, while the
average output of fiber has stagnated with minor annual variations. Fiber output decreased particularly at
SOTOCO states that it has maintained 5,000 ha of rural feed road annually.
8   This section was labeled cotton marketing in the SAR, which is misleading because marketing arrangements
were not discussed under this section.



9
Notse, Talo 1 and Talo 2, as well as SICOT. Only Kara was above the average, with 42.07 percent in
1996/97. The quality of the STAM 45 variety, spread throughout the country and strongly influenced by
climatic conditions, plays a large role in the variability of fiber outputs.
37.    The planned construction in Lome of a cotton storage facility with laboratory has not taken place
because of the retrocession of OPAT's storage facility to SOTOCO in 1995.
Efficiency Improvements in Cotton Sector Operations Component
38.    The SAR anticipated that with more judicious input use, the elimination of subsidies on
insecticides, better utilization of SOTOCO's transport fleet, new marketing arrangements between OPAT
and SOTOCO, and yield increases, production costs of cotton fiber would be reduced from CFAF 487/kg
in 1987 to 356 CFAF per kg by 1992. SOTOCO does not have an analytical accounting system and is
therefore unable to calculate its post-campaign production costs. The only information that is available
is from the pre-campaign budget estimates. Based on these estimates, ginning costs were 379 CFAF per
kg by 1992/93 and 699 CFAF per kg during the 1996/97 campaign. It is difficult with the available
information to express the post-devaluation production costs on the same basis than the estimates in the
SAR. Based on GDP deflator data, production costs have indeed declined. The ginning costs in 1992/93
were 295 CFAF per kg expressed in constant 1987 prices. Applying the same deflator to the 1996/97
cost price would yield production costs of about 380 CFAF. However, the latter number also includes
other costs, which were not included in the earlier estimates, and a much higher purchase price of seed
cotton.
39.   More Effective Use of Agricultural Inputs. The project intended to better control the use of
inputs while recommending lower dosages of fertilizers and pesticides through more adapted and newer
pesticides and limiting fertilizer use to the amount needed to maintain soil fertility. Reductions in
chemical inputs through more judicious use were achieved, although the overall financial impact is not
clear. A pest scouting program was expected to further reduce needs for pesticides, but was never
implemented (see also para. 20).
40.   Elimination of Subsidies The 100 percent subsidy on pesticides was gradually removed over a
4-year period, as agreed. However, the supply of cotton seeds remains completely subsidized. No
modification of this system is expected, because SOTOCO considers the quality of these seeds a key
factor in maintaining appropriate quality and ginning rates.
41.    Transport Costs. The transport of seed cotton by the private sector started in 1985, during the
second project, intended mainly to reduce SOTOCO's deficiency in the area of transportation rather than
to really involve private carriers in the sector. From 1985 to 1992, the quantity transported by the private
sector did not exceed 6 percent. However, from the 1992/93 campaign onward, subcontracting to the
private sector allowed an important evolution of the private sector's involvement, raising its share to 36
percent in 1996.
42.   During the 1991/92 campaign, the rate offered by SOTOCO was 50 CFAF/km/ton, a rate too low
to attract much private interest. But during the socio-political crisis from 1992 to 1994, port traffic was
nearly nil, forcing private carriers to look to the cotton sector for business and explaining why the private
sector's share of cotton transportation rapidly increased to 25 percent in 1993/94. As soon as port
activities resumed in 1994/95, the volume of cotton transportation handled by the private sector
decreased to 14 percent. SOTOCO having understood the potential savings from using private truckers,
increased the rate from 50 to 70 CFAF/km/ton. During the 1996/97 campaign, this rate was further



10
increased to 80 CFAF/km/ton. As a result the share of the private sector has increased from 31 percent
in 1995/96 to 36 percent in 1996/97. It is not clear from the limited data available, how much savilgs
were obtained by using the private sector, as the data are not consistent. They do, however, indicate a
reduction in transportation costs over time.
43.    From 1994 to date, all transportation of kernel and fiber is by private companies. The ginneries
are located on asphalt roads in good condition and thus easily accessible.
44.    Export Marketing Costs. The SAR was not clear as to how export marketing costs would be
reduced. OPAT was judged to be inefficient (which was confirmed by an OED evaluation) with
excessive overheads. Studies were carried out during project implementation to review export marketing
arrangements and identify ways to improve these. OPAT resisted making the recommended changes,
which called for a de facto pull-out, if not abolition of OPAT. After four years of discussions and
negotiations, the Govemment finally agreed, on May 26, 1995, to a complete transfer of cotton
marketing from OPAT to SOTOCO, effective December 30, 1995. OPAT was subsequently liquidated.
This transfer of responsibilities had clear advantages in increased transparency of financial transactions
and a more direct link between the supplier (SOTOCO) and the major international importers.
Producer Pricing Policy Component
45.    Agreement had been reached as part of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, to introduce
flexible producer prices for export crops. The formula for cotton would: (i) give financial incentives to
farmers and SOTOCO to improve their efficiency; (ii) give farmers priority in revenue distribution; and
(iii) pay revenues to Government through corporate taxes. A floor price support fund was to be
established, managed by OPAT. Annual prices would be set by Government taking into account agreed
cost levels for processing and marketing, and expected world market prices. The support fund was to be
a temporary measure until the sector had become sufficiently profitable.
46.    During project implementation, the idea of the support fund was dropped. Instead, farmers were
given each year a floor price, plus 50 percent of the pre-tax profits of the sub-sector. Prices were to be
announced each year before the start of the growing season (March) to be able to impact on the cotton
campaign. In reality, prices were announced usually too late to influence production. The price setting
system played a role in containing costs in the sector, with production costs in constant terms decreasing,
despite a capacity expansion program, and increasing the price paid to farmers for seed cotton by about
20 percent in real terms, as a result of favorable world market price developments. T ogolese farmers are
presently paid one of the highest seed cotton prices in West Africa (190 CFAF per kg).
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
47.    The project's achievements are sustainable. Producers have acquired a belter technical know-
how, higher incomes, and are much better organized. The private sector is now involved in the cotton
sector (transportation, ginning, sale of inputs), and SOTOCO has become better placed to be privatized
as part of Government's strategy to withdraw  from  commercial activities.   The notions of
competitiveness, transparency and better sharing of revenues are now part of the national strategy.
48.    Several challenges still need to be overcome, however, to finalize the restructuring of the cotton
sector. The appearance of SICOT as a private operator, the possible transfer of SOTOCO's factories to
the private sector and the possible liberalization of the seed cotton trade raise the issue of the relationship
between the GPCs (and their Unions) and the ginners. Full liberalization of the sector would imply that



11
the transport costs of seed cotton and inputs would be particularly high for the Northern Regions9 which
could therefore suffer from the regionalization of processing, even if transport costs were to decrease as a
result of future road rehabilitationi. This problem should be considered in order to avoid harming those
regions which are already the poorest.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
49.   The Bank's performance was mixed. Weaknesses in initial project design were not corrected or
identified at appraisal. These weaknesses were: (a) an over-estimation of the impact of the project on
food crop production given the experience under the previous project and the lack of knowledge on
production systems in the country; and (b) an under-estimation of the time necessary to implement
major institutional changes, given the country's political realities and experience in other countries.
Moreover, the appraisal team overestimated the economic benefits of the project.
50.   The difficulties caused by the social unrest of 1991-93 on the one hand and procrastination in
implementation of institutional reforms on the other compelled the Bank on several occasions to consider
suspending disbursements. Late in the project's life, constraints have progressively been lifted and
substantial progress recorded, some certainly facilitated by extemal factors (improved international
cotton prices and devaluation of the CFAF).
51.    Bank technical support on cotton cultivation systems and food crops proved insufficient,
"training and visit" specialists placing more emphasis on organization than content.
52.   During project implementation, the Bank regularly conducted supervision missions which
allowed sustained project monitoring. However, there was no mid-term review. Various technical
studies were only carried out during the last two years of project implementation. Their effect on
SOTOCO's management can consequently not yet be fully appreciated. The tight cohesion between this
project and the reform program under ERAC facilitated the implementation of measures necessary for
restructuring the institutional framework of the sector.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   The Borrower's performance was deficient: (a) the transfer of fiber marketing from OPAT to
SOTOCO, recommended since the start of the project and whose urgency had been confirmed in 1991,
was only made effective at the end of 1995; this had a negative effect on the sector's performance; (b)
the recommendation to open the Fiduciary Committee, which oversaw the cotton filiere, to economic
actors (producers, industrials) was not implemented; and (c) SOTOCO was not given financial and
administrative autonomy as agreed in the Development Credit Agreement.
54.    SOTOCO's performance as implementing agency was satisfactory overall. It was able to
continue operations in very difficult circumstances (1991-93) and to implement several measures to
expand operations while controlling costs. It implemented most of the activities foreseen at appraisal.
Unfortunately, SOTOCO never carried out the planned study on cost efficiency. Also, as is the case in
other West African countries, extension activities not directly related to cotton production were poorly
executed as SOTOCO concentrated its efforts on cotton production..
In 1994/95, SOTOCO's transport costs were: Talo 5.14 CFAF/kg of seed cotton, Notse 3.30 CFAF/kg, and
Kara 9.48 CFAF/kg.



12
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
55.    Based on the aforementionied, the project's outcome is judged satisfactory. The ICR mission
could not collect all the informationi necessary to replicate the economic and financial analyses carried
out at appraisal. In the absence of complete data, a relatively simple analysis was carried out withl
conservative assumptionis on benefits and costs. The re-estimated economic rate of return is betweeni 11
and 16 percent (dependent on cost assumptions). This rate compares unfavorably with the appraisal
estimate of over 50 percent, but can be explained by the highly negative impact of the drop in cotton
prices during the early phases of project implementation and relatively optimistic assumptions on the
part of food crop production that failed to materialize until late in project's life. Ilowever, the project
had a major positive impact on institutionial restructuring, which will improve future efficiency and
sustainability.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
56.    SOTOCO did not prepare a formal plan for the future operation of the project, and no future
operation is planned.  The Bank is, however, providing advice to complete the cotton sector's
restructuring through full liberalization and sector restructuring. The agricultural services provided
under the project will be taken over by the newly created Technical Assistance and Support Institute for
Agricultural Advice (ICAT, Institut de Conseil et d'Appui Technique) for extension and the Togolese
Institute for Agricultural Research (ITRA, Institut Togolais de Recherche Agricole) for research. ICAT
and ITRA are autonomous semi-private agencies and were created as part of the recently approved
National Agricultural Services Support Project. Other services provided by SOTOCO will be gradually
taken over by the GPCs, as their capabilities and financial strength increase over time, and by the private
sector. SOTOCO is expected to be privatized under the Government's strategy to withdraw from
commercial activities.
I.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
57.    Three key lessons can be learned from the implementation of this project:
(a)    The need to have a close coordination between macro-level reforms and sectoral
investment projects in order to maximize the impact of investments. The close link with
ERAC was instrumental in Government's acceptance of the liberalization of cotton
export marketing;
(b)    A mid-term review is an essential instrument to gauge not only the effectiveness of
project implementation, but also the need to validate project objectives and redesign its
approaches and activities to take into account changing circumstances. In the case of
this project, no mid-term review was carried out. However, The project's objectives, as
interpreted by Bank staff and Government officials, slowly evolved from an emphasis on
production and efficiencies to institutional reform. The lack of a rnid-term review and
project redesign had no impact on the final outcome, but it could have been an
appropriate forum to highlight slow progress in key areas (e.g., OPAT, price support
fund);
(c)    Institutional reforns requires time to build consensus and be implemented, and their
impact is generally slower than expected. This needs to be factored into project design
and the expected benefit stream.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1929-TO)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                   O             [1              0                A
Sector Policies                  El                            0               [1
Financial Objectives             IA            [1El 0
Institutional Development        IEEl                                          El
Physical Objectives              El             El             El              El
Poverty Reduction                I             E               E               E
Gender Issues                    El              l             El              IA
Other Social Objectives          O             E               [1 0i
Environmental Objectives         O              El             El              IA
Public Sector Management         El            IA                              El
Private Sector Development       El                            0               0
Trade and tariff reform          E                             E               E
B. Project Sustainability          Likely               Unlikely                Uncertain
(v)                   (/)                     (/)
IA                     El                      El



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessment (continued)
Highly
C. Bank Performnance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                             [1            El
Preparation Assistance                            El                    O
Appraisal
Supervision                               El                           EC
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                   satisfactQry    Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)           (/)
Preparation                                El            IZI            a
Implementation                             C1            al
Covenant Compliance                        El            [ E
Operation (if applicable)                  C1                           El
Highly                                         Highlv
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactorv
El)                            El)              El)(



15
Table 2: Related IDA or co-financed Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit title                        Purpose                  Year of    Status
approval_
Preceding operations
Coffee and Cocoa        Research and extension                     1974   Completed
Development Project I
(Cr. 05030)
Rural Development-      Increase cotton production                 1977   Completed
Cotton Areas (Cr. 07410)  Improve cotton research and extension
Coffee and Cocoa        Replant cocoa and coffee                   1979   Completed
Development Project II    Research and extension
(Cr. 09450)
Cotton Sector           Increase cotton and food crops production  1982   Completed
Development Project     Raise production and productivity of cotton
(Cr. 13020)             and food crops production
Create and support farmers' groups
Support extension and research services
Second Rural            Increase cotton and food crops production  1986   Completed
Development Project     Raise production and productivity of cotton
(Cr. 13021)             and food crops production
Create and support farmers' groups
Support extension and research services
l______________________ Training, monitoring and evaluation
Third Coffee and Cocoa    Support farmers organizations (OPEA)     1987   Completed
Project (Cr. 17450)     Equipment credit
Strengthen coffee and cocoa research in Togo
Replant coffee and cocoa
Increase coffee and cocoa production
Agricultural extension  Restructure and strengthen extension services    1987   Completed
project (Cr. 18080)     Intensive training of MAEP extension staff
Improve the relationship between research and
extension
Following operations
National agricultural   Agricultural services: extension, training and  1997   Not yet started
services support project    support farmer organization
(PNASA) (Cr. 29900)     Agricultural research
Rural credit
Reorganization of MAEP
National Agricultural   Implementation on viable, self-sustained   1997   Awaiting
Services development    structures for agricultural services (ICAT) and    effectiveness
program (PNASA).        research (ICTA)



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    |   Date Planled (1)   [     Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Initiating memorandum n                                                 April 1987
Appraisal                                     November 1987           November 1987
Negotiations                                     May 1988               May 1988
Board Presentationi                             April 1988              June 1988
Signing                                                               February, 1989
Effectiveness                                                          August 1989
Mid-term review                                    none                    none
Mid-term evaluation                                none                    none
Project Completion                           December 31, 1992         J une 30, 1996
Credit Closing                                 June 30, 1993           June 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY   FY   FY   FY       FY      FY     FY     FY    FY
89   90   91   92       93     94      95     96    97
Appraisal Estimate           1.8  4.8  7.8  10.8   13.6   14.8   15.1
Actual                       0.0  3.7  7.0  9.9    11.1   11.2   11.5   14.6  15.2
Actual as % of Estimate      0    77   90   92        82     76     76      97    101
Date of Final Disbursement                          July 8, 1997                        .



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Cotton Production and Yields
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97
Production
(tons)
Actual      72,175   99,599   96,871  100,114   84,517  131,612  102,070  146,449
Planned     94,347  109,650  123,575  133,100  133,100  133,100  133,100  133,100
Area
('000 ha)
Actual        76.3     80.0     78.3     79.8     65.5     92.8     96.4    108.3
Planned       89.3     97.0    102.5    106.0    106.0    106.0    106.0    106.0
Yield
Actual         946    1,245    1,237    1,255    1,291    1,418    1,059     1,352
Planned      1,057    1,130    1,206    1,256    1,256    1,256    1,256    1,256
Farmers
('000)
Actual       143.0    156.3    165.9    179.3    151.8    191.4    185.0    199.6
Planned                                 168.0    168.0    168.0    168.0    168.0
Food Crops Production (tons)
=___________  89/90    90/91   91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97
Corn
Actual       58,618  62,581   91,400   86,843   89,102   93,240  106,387   115,522
Planned      76,250   87,350   97,000  105,600  105,600  105,600  105,600   105,600
Rice
Actual        3,663    2,922    5,657    6,004    7,631    8,525   11,699    12,979
Planned       4,002    4,975    5,650    6,325    6,325    6,325    6,325    6,325
Ground nuts
Actual        8,122    7,192   10,408    8,019    9,467   13,832   33,742    25,081
Planned      12,680   13,350   13,700   13,700   13,700   13,700   13,700    13,700
Cowpeas
Actual        9,108    9,327   12,385   11,196   16,331   22,375   21,957    24,839
Planned       16,650   18,300   19,380   20,580   20,580   20,580   20,580    20,580
Sorghum/
Millet
Actual       61,941   53,617   68,222   55,123   51,509   56,691   72,395    63,292
Planned      58,141   66,700   73,750   78,750   78,750   78,750   78,750    78,780



18
Food Crop Yields (kg/ha)
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97
Corn
Actual           880      855      955      834       818      882      868      883 |
Planned        1,210    1,285    1,329    1,354    1,354    1,354    1,354    1,354
Rice
Actual         1,000      630      873    1,080       812      714      807      992
Planned        1,132    1,171    1,189    1,205    1,205    1,205    1,205    1,205
Ground nuts
Actual           789      566      664      646       603      595      749      582
Planned          685      703      703      703       703      703      703      703
Cowpeas
Actual           538      472      498      481       536      606      562      582
Planned          660      678      685      691       691      691      691      691
Sorghum
Actual           793      433      652       n.a.     598      629      589      547
Planned          694      706      738      750 |    750       750      750      750
Evolution of GPCs'0
1989   1990   1991   1992    1993    1994   1995    1996    1997
Savannah            78     78    135    138    409    409    436    232    457
Kara                55     55      69     61    248    248    248    222         270
Central             44     48      73     77     154     154     178      67    200
Northern            63     72    121    133    480    480    480    338    456
Plateau                                                      I
Southern           116    132    178    227      618     618    701      785     812
Plateau                                                                              l
Total              356    384    576    636   1,919   1,919   2,043   2,247   2,195
Activities of GPCs (as percent of total GPCs)
Fertilizers        Seeds          Insecticides     Seed Cotton
Marketing
1987                    23               27                16               35
1988                    37               33                28              40
1990                    37               48                36              42
1991                    47               66                49               41
1992                   100              100       I       100               60
10  No GPCs were created in 1994. Fluctuations in the numnber of GPCs in a given region are also caused
by mergers of GPCs.



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Performance of industrial apparatus
89/90    90/91   91/92    92/93   93/94    94/95   95/96   96/97
Output/ fiber(%)  42.01    41.76   41.58    41.92   41.81    41.77   41.47   41.42
Output/kernel (%) 54.26    54.05   54.34    53.73   54.02    54.34   55.02   54.74
Speed tons/hr    9.4     9.1    9.5      9.8    9.4       10.5   10.5   10.5
Cotton           529     587    557       468    464      591    601    727
Kernel/day (tons)               I                        I_I
Ginning days     146     214    217       314    198      225    127.5  152.75
Nb Bales/hr      22.8    17.8   19        24      18.4    19.58  20.4   24.91
Weight of bales   220.3   228.5  226.2   230.4  230.2   230.1  229.5  231.3
(kg)__             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _
Production Cost of Fiber (CFAF/kg)
89/90   j 90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97
| Cost Price | 385.95    370.09    379.05    319.05   432.09   507.38  655.9    698.93
Draft Cultivation on Credit
j 1988      1989     1990     1991     11       3996     1997    Total
Number      0       141     9228     9448      121     9346       401 9   1,679
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (carried out)
Study                               Status                       Impact of Study
Support to administrative and accounting  Fulfilled in 1995  Make SOTOCO more competitive by allowing it to
transfer of the marketing of cotton fiber                 incorporate all aspects of commercialization and
from OPAT to SOTOCO                                       translate efficiencies into improved operating
margins.
Practical modes of transfer of the marketing  Fulfilled in 1995  Make the marketing of cotton fiber more efficient
of cotton fiber from OPAT to SOTOCO.
Summary document
Legal study on OPAT's personnel        Fulfilled in 1996  To define the status of OPAT's transferred
transferred to SOTOCO                                      personnel
Audit of SOTOCO's accounts             Each year from 92    Evaluate the accuracy of expenses incurred
to 96
Support mission for SOTOCO's           BDPA-              A strengthened and more efficient SOTOCO
restructuring (1st phase)              SCETAGRI,
Fulfilled in 6/92
Audit of SOTOCO's personnel (2nd phase)  Fulfilled in 1994  Evaluate the qualifications of SOTOCO's personnel
Data processing Audit of SOTOCO        Arthur Andersen,    Evaluate the accuracy of data entry.
Fulfilled in 1994
Audit of SOTOCO's logistic and         HLC, Fulfilled in    Evaluate the state and appropriateness of
transportation                         1996                SOTOCO's logistics and transportation
Support mission for restructuring cotton  BDPA-           To have a better knowledge of production systems
zones in rural areas in Togo           SCETAGRI,          and to make cotton zones more productive.
Fulfilled in 1991
Support project to farmers' organizations in  Fulfilled in 1996  To make farmers organizations more viable and
cotton zones, feasibility study                           durable in cotton zones.
Study of development potential for cotton    CFDT, Fulfilled in   Evaluation of production potential.
cultivation in Togo                    1995
Implementation of economic and financial   BDPA-          To better evaluate the cost of production, the
analysis software of cotton sector in Togo    SCETAGRI,   commercialization of SOTOCO, and to make
Fulfilled in 1996  management more efficient
Strategic study of the liberalization of the    C2G Council,  Help in the decision making of liberalization and
cotton sector in Togo                  Fulfilled in 1996  privatization of the cotton sub-sector.



21
Table 8 A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                   (US$M)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
cost    cost              cost    cost 
Extension                          6.15     3.46     9.61    5.82     4.73    10.55
Research                           0.34     0.50     0.83     0.8     0.30    1.10
Farmers groups                     1.52     0.15     1.68      -      0.80    0.80
Agricultural inputs                0.77     3.11     3.88    4.56     4.29    8.85
Seed production/ food crops        0.63     0.64     1.27    0.03     0.38    0.41
Feeder road maintenance            2.68     2.20     4.88      -      4.49    4.49
Training                           0.96     1.30     2.26      -      0.70    0.70
Monitoring and Evaluation          0.98     0.62     1.60      -      0.19    0.19
Management support                 0.93     1.57     2.50      -      1.66    1.66
Cotton marketing                   1.54     2.48     4.01      -      0.99    0.99
Base costs (include taxes)         16.50    16.03    32.53     -       -        -
Physical contingencies             0.45     0.67     1.12                           l
Price contingencies                2.03     1.83     3.86                           l
Total costs                        18.98    18.53  [ 37.5   11.21 | 18.53   29.74
Table 8 B: Project Financing
Source                       Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)
IDA                                       15.1                       15.23
CFD (former CCCE)                         11.5                       11.56
FAC (French Cooperation)                   3.3                        2.73
Government                                 7.1                        0.22
Beneficiaries                              0.5                         n.a.
TOTAL                                     37.5                       29.74



22
Table 9: Economic costs and benefits
I  Appraisal Estimate             ICR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return             > 50) percent               I1 1- 16 percent
Notes:
In the absence of complete data, a relatively simple analysis was carried out with conservative
assumptions on benefits and costs. The thus estimated economic rate of return was between 11
and 16 percent (dependenit on cost assumptions). This rate compares low with the appraisal
estimate of over 50 percent, but can be explained by the highly negative impact of the drop in
cotton prices on cotton production during the early phases of project implementation and
relatively optimistic assumptions on the part of food crop production that failed to materialize
until late (actual food crop production fell relative to estimates during the first four years of
project implementation).
Assumptions underlying the analysis:
*  Without project crop production was taken from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
*  Actual crop production data was provided by SOTOCO
o  Actual economic prices were estimated on the basis of world market prices, for the major
crops (cotton, corn, rice and sorghum) as published by the World Bank (commodity prices,
November 1997).
*  Farm gate prices were estimated using the structure presented in the SAR
e  Actual costs were estimated on the basis of actual data obtained by the ICR mission and,
where these were incomplete or non-existent, estimated on the basis of data in the SAR.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (1/3)
Credit          Covenant      Present   Original    Revise    Description of Covenant    Comments
Agreement         Type         Status    fulf. date  fulf.
Section                                             date                             _                            l
3.04 (a)           12           C       Project               Gvt to cancel all         Fulfilled
start                insecticide subsidies byl
May 1, 1992
3.04 (b)(i)        11          NC       Project               Each year, Govt to make    Economic crisis strongly
start                budgetary allocations     decreased budget resources.
sufficient to cover the cost   SOTOCO only funded
of public activities such as   extension services and
extension service and     adaptive research
agricultural research
3.04 (b)(ii)       11           CD      Project               By June I each year, the  Budget is submitted with
start                Gvt to submit to IDA for    delays and disbursements
approval the draft        are not completed
budgetary allocations
referred to (i)
3.04 (b)(iii)      11          NC                             By the first day of each  Same as above
calendar quarter, Govt to
deposit the quarterly
amount so required in the
Project Account
3.04 (c)(i)         5          NC                             Govt to take all measures    Transfer of cotton fiber
to permit SOTOCO to be    marketing from OPAT to
managed as an             SOTOCO requested 4 years
autonomous, industrial and  to be achieved (91-95)
commercially enterprise   Reorganization of
SOTOCO still pending
(linked w. PNASA)
SOTOCO management
under control of a
monitoring council
composed of Ministries
3.04 (c)(ii)       12           CD                            Government to take all    Program is in the way with
measures to ensure that, by  the implementation of the
December 31, 1992, all    PNASA project
public service activities
carried out by SOTOCO
shall be actually
transferred to appropriate
Gvt departments/agencies,
in accordance with an
action plan acceptable to
I IDA



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (2/3)
3.04 (d)(i)        5           NC                            The Govt to ensure that the      The administrative
producer cotton price and cotton  fixed price system
export revenues distribution shall   (by the Fiduciary
be determined in accordance with    Committee) is still
the price setting mechanism agreed  running. 94/95
upon with IDA                    benefits have not
been distributed v et
3.04 (d)(ii)       12          NC                            The Govt to establish a Floor Price   OPAT heavy losses
Support Fund aimed at ensuring a   prevent from raismgn
floor producer price for cotton  adequate funds to
implement FPSF
3.04 (d)(iii)      5           CD                            The Govt to ensure that FPSF shall  FPSF has not been
be managed in accordance with by-  implemented
laws and regulations acceptable to
IDA; any disbursement out of
FPSF shall be made in agreement
with IDA
3.05               5          NC                             Except agreed with IDA, the Govt   "Misunderstanding"
shall not authorize any increase of   of liberalization
its ginning capacity before the full  rules led the Gov t to
utilization of the existing ginneries   agree the
has been fully ensured           implementation of a
new private ginnerv
in 95 (50 000 tons).
thus creating losses
in SOTOCO
financial results
5.01 (a)(i)        5           C                             The Govt has taken measures      Cotton products
satisfactory to IDA for setting up a   prices are fully
mechanism for determining cotton   documented by
producer prices                  SOTOCO
5.01 (a)(ii)       12          NC                            The borrower has revised         SOTOCO not
SOTOCO's statutes in a manner    transformed in a
satisfactory to IDA              privately owned
company (with
minor Govt
participation)
5.01 (b)           2           C                             SOTOCO has raised the selling    Input subsidies have
price of cotton insecticides to 25 %   been canceled
of the full cost of such insecticides
5.01 (c)           12          C                             The Subsidiary Loan Agreement    Fulfilled
has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and SOTOCO
5.01 (d)           4           C                             The Gvt has deposited 80 million    Fulfilled
CFAF into the Project Account



25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (3/3)
2.01 (c) (d)        I          NC                             SOTOCO to open project        Public services carried
account only to defray cost of   out by SOTOCO for its
public services carried out by    own
SOTOCO on behalf of
Government
2.01 (e)            I           C                             SOTOCO to open and            Opened in 1990; this
maintain an account to the    IRF, funded by
Insecticide Revolving Fund in   SOTOCO only, covers
a commercial bank on terms    part of inputs sales
and conditions acceptable to
IDA and to deposit proceeds
of insecticides sales made by
SOTOCO into this account
2.02                5           C                             Project to procure goods and    Fulfilled
services to be financed out of
IDA credit in accordance with
IDA guidelines
4.01 (b) (ii)       1           C                             SOTOCO to furnish not later    Fulfilled
than four months after the end
of each fiscal year certified
copies of its financial
statements as audited and
____________   _ _________                      _________    report of such  audit
4.02 (a)            2           C                             SOTOCO to maintain a ratio    Fulfilled
of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.8:1



26
Table i1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                      Actual
Project Cycle     _
Weeks                              US$
1t                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(S0 00)
Through Appraisal.                  29.1                               71.3
Appraisal-Boaard                    44.9                              103.6
Board-Effectioveness                7.0                                14.9
Suoervision                         125.1                             257.5
Completion                          12.5                               37.3
TOTALl                            218.6                              484.6



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (Page 1/4)
Stage of                 l          l T                    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/        Number   Days in    Specialized      Implementation     Development                           Types of problems Comments
Project Cycle       Year          of       Field      Staff Skills       Status          Objectives
Persons              Represented
Identification
Preparation
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal       November        4
1987
Supervision    I   10-20        6          4                                                              The accounts of the sector are strongly imbalanced (4 billion in 93), and the recovery
(joint            February                                                                                measures already recommended in 91 have not been implemented: (i) the support
WB/CCCE)          1992                                                                                    fund is not effective since OPAT has not replenished it; (ii) the producers are not
aware of the price floor principle; (iii) the Fiduciary Committee does not work; (iv)
SOTOCO and OPAT remain costly and inefficient State enterprises; (v) the
production system remains extensive in spite of wide extension; (vi) TA is not
viable; (vii) input management is deficient; (viii) disbursements are 50 % lower than  -
provisions and the State has not respected its counterpart commitments.  An
extension of the project will be necessary pending recovery measures.
Those measures, aiming for the participation of all actors in the sector are: (i) since
92, transfer the marketing function of OPAT to SOTOCO, set a price floor of 85-90
F/kg max, reduce the costs of SOTOCO and OPAT to 25 F/kg each, suppress fiscal
anomalies, reduce the sea transportation costs to reasonable levels, inform producers
on price mechanisms; (ii) cancel the rest of subsidies on insecticides in 93-94,
generalize collection by GAV, transfer input management to producers, train
SOTOCO's personnel, audit SOTOCO and OPAT, launch the Support Fund, pay
counterpart funds. The hypothesis of a project suspension has been emitted in case
of non-implementation of those measures.
In the mid-term, an action plan remains necessary after those emergency measures.
Supervision 11    13             1          1          Economist                                          Social unrest has affected until February 93 the 92/93 campaign but it was a good
September                                                                              one in spite of delays. The 93/94 campaign will be bad (decrease of number of
1993                                                                                   producers, reduction of production). SOTOCO is getting ready to take over the
marketing of the cottoIn fiber. A study is being done on refocussing the activities of
the company and its direct divestiture from extension. But the economic context of
the sector (world price) is worrisome.



(Page 2/4)
Performance Rating
Stage of          Month/        Number    Days in         Specialized     Implementation       Development                                Types of problems / Comments
Project Cycle         Year           of         Field       Staff Skills         Status            Objectives
Persons                 Represented
Supervision 111       13-17           2            5         Economist                                              Results: (i) results inferior to production objectives of cotton and food crops over
D)eccmber                                                                                      project life; (ii) cost price of fiber in Togo 13.6 % > than in Benin; (iii) low financial
1993                                  Financial                                              security margin for SOTOCO (liquidity ration 1.2), (iv) increase of OPAT's debts
analyst                                              which owes SOTOCO 12.55 billion CFAF over 3 years. SOTOCO has taken
measures to control its costs (13 %  reduction between 92 and 93), still insufficient (-
5 % as fast as possible).
Recommendations: (i) integrate marketing functions to SOTOCO (not later than end
of March 94) and industrializatiorn, separate from general functions (extension,
feeder roads maintenanice, transportation); transfer input management to PAO and
private sector according to a cautious and controlled process; (iii) review the
operation principles of the Fiduciary Committee; (iv) create the Support Fund; (v)
adopt various measures: reduce the excessive stock of parts, purchase CS from
factory, study impact of cotton cultivation on the fertility of soils, disseminate BV
treatments, prioritize the ditfusion of Glandless, relaunch IRCT research, continuic    co
rehabilitation of TA debt.
An impleimentation schedule until 1994 of this measures is proposed
Supervision IV       Janiary 25         3           10        Economists                                             Impact of devaluation on the sector: (i) taxation; (ii) treatment otfprevious
to February                                                                                     financial deficits; (iii) good opportunity for creation of a support fund for producer
03, 1994                                                                                       price; (iv) study/support a credit guarantee fund MT for agricultural investment.
Pursue the resttucturing and rationalization of SOl'OCO's industrial production,
conditions of extension finanicing, producers' participation to industrial capital,
financing health insurance, restructuring Fiduciary Committee.
Supervision V           14-23           2                                                                            Macro-economic measures not yet taken affect the project. 'I'he actual transfer of
September                                                                                       OPA'I' to SO'I'OCO tmlUst be made before March 95 otherxvise the project will be
1994                                                                                         closed on 6/30/95. Thie decree on the transfer of cotton marketing fromii OPAT to
SOT'OCO has just been voicd.
Supervision VI          14-20                                                                                        Not available
Decefber                                                                                                                                                                          l
1994                                                                                                                                                                            l



(Page 3/4)
l         I          I               t       Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/i    Number    Days in        Specialized                 I                                             Types of problems /Comments
Project Cycle       Year         of        Field      Staff Skills     Implementation  j  Development
Persons               Represented         Status         Objectives
Supervision VII    26-30 July      3                   Economist                                         Exam of functional and organizational restructuring process of SOTOCO.
1995                                                                                Recommendations: (i) to avoid duplication roles between residual extension of
SOTOCO and ICAT, study the composition of a restricted cotton team for SOTOCO-
ICAT, then reduce the actual mechanism; (ii) restructure the Fiduciary Committee
Extension                                        (Decree projects being implemented) according to already proposed conditions:
integration of producers and economic operators representatives; management by
Expert                                          producers of stabilization fund; (iii) reinforce GAV and start creation of GAV UJnions;
(iv) offer participation to SOTOCO's capital by PAO from 96 after effective transfer of
l_______ ________ _____________                                           fiber marketing to SOTOCO from 5/31/95.
Supervision VIII    9-12 April      1         4         Economist                                         All the markets have been launched and all planned investments implemented except
1996                                                                                for the data processing material and the unit of waste treatment (stage AO). All
investments will be completed before February 97.
Harvest 95-96 23 % lower than objectives because of climatic reasons, parasites, weak
mobilization of extension being compressed, non payment of rebates on 94-95
campaign. The negative consequences on expected financial results have been
worsened by commitments towards SICOT and already concluded sales to OPAT.      NJ
There are also worries on SOTOCO's capacity for provisional managernent. Anomalies
in management found (sale price of CS to SICOT inferior to cost price, excessive
quantities).
26 Producers Unions created at the prefectorial level. 2247 GPC replace GAV and
APCC.
Recommendations : (i) redistribution of rebates to producers for 94-95 campaign to be
decided by Fiduciary Committee before May 96; (ii) acquisition of OPAT certified
accounts on the same date (assets entries do not correspond to physical assets); (iii) plan
lay off of some agents transferred to from OPAT to SOTOCO if they are not necessary.
Supervision IX   27 June to 5      5          9        Economists                                        Mission of analysis of restructuring strategies of the sector (evaluation of four
(oint WB/CFD)      July 1996                                                                              scenario proposed by outside consultant). Assessment strength/weaknesses of sector.
Analyses and temporary comments: (i) collection mechanism and purchase CS will
remain unique or regionalized; (ii) SOTOCO will expand functions sub-contracted
(transportation, progressively credit); (iii) SOTOCO's capital would be open to private
sector and producers; (iv) production and sale CS only will be responsibility of
SOTOCO; (v) support fund managed by producers; (vi) 2 SOTOCO's ginneries taken
over by private sector other than SICOT would be evaluated; (vii) two possible options
for marketing of fiber and seed, either manufacturers working for SOTOCO, owner of
the production, or manufacturers buying the seed and selling freely their production;
(iv) protection measures of national oil market and SOTOCO-NIOTO negotiations on
the price of the seed; (v) provisional calendar of liberalization stages to study.



(Page 4/4)
Performance Rating
Stage of         Monrh/       Number    Days in      Specialized    Implementation      Development                               Types of problems / Comments
Project Cycle       Year           of        Field      Staff SkillsStusOjcie
Persons                Represented
Supervision X    8-31 October       1                    Economist                                          Mission summarizes transfer of assets and personnel from OPAT to SOTOCO. Audit of
1996                                                                                   95 accounts of OPAT not available, hence the impossibility to give rebates to
producers. Mission recommends suppression of OPAT, Consultant anticipated as
support to determine purchase and sale price mechanism of CS.
Comments from Govemment on sector restructuring scenario expected. as well as
designation of a group of reflection.
Various implementation deadlines have been indicated.
.                   .        _                   =~~~~~~~~~~~



31
REPUBLIQUE DU TOGO
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL III - CREDIT 1929-TO
MISSION DE CLOTURE DU PROJET
ASPECTS DE LA GESTION FINANCIERE ET COMPTABLE
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE LA MISSION DU 18 au 26 JUIN 1997
1.     Une mission composee de Monsieur Hugues Aossou, analyste financier a la Mission residente de la
Banque mondiale pour le Bdnin et le Togo et appuyee par Kofi Egbeto, charge du secteur prive d la Mission de
Lome a sejourne au Togo du 18 au 26 juin 1997 afin dexaminer les aspects de gestion financiere et comptable
du Projet de Developpement Rural 3 (PDR 3) objet du credit 1929 TO dont la date de cl6ture est fixee au 30
juin 1997.
2.     La mission s'est rendue a ATAKPAME. siege de SOTOCO ou elle a travaille en etroite collaboration
avec le Directeur financier et comptable de la SOTOCO, Monsieur ADJETEY Lassev et tous ses
collaborateurs. La mission profite de cette occasion pour remercier, une fois encore, tous les responsables de la
SOTOCO pour leur disponibilite et leur franche collaboration.
Principaux points examines
3.     La mission a analyse les trois demiers rapports d'audit disponibles (exercices 93, 94 et 95, celui de
1'exercice clos au 31 decembre 1996 n'etant pas encore livre par le cabinet Ivoirien Price Waterhouse) et
particulierement I'attestation speciale et le certificat special sur le credit IDA 1929 TO pour se faire une idee de
I'appreciation du cabinet sur l'utilisation des fonds du credit de la Banque mondiale.
4.     La mission a egalement procede a l'examen des pieces comptables qui appuient les differentes
demandes de remboursement de fonds (DRF), notamment ceux des numeros 120 a 170 des annees 1996 et 1997
et couvrant environ 30% du credit. Cet examen a ete etendu a l'appreciation du respect des differentes
procedures de la Banque en matiere de decaissements et la passation des marches.



32
5.     La mission a analyse la fiabilit6 des outils de gestion pour un suivi du credit disponible, procede a
l'evaluation des engagements en cours afin d'apprecier si elles peuvent etre couvertes par le credit disponible et
dans le cas contraire, donner aux decideurs les elements chiffres necessaires pour la prise de decision.
6.     Prenant en compte le retrait imminent de la Banque mondiale avec la cloture du financement du PDR
3 a travers la SOTOCO. [a mission a eu a apprecier A travers les comptes de cette derniere, ['incidence que
pourrait avoir ce retrait ou ['absence de toute forme de subventions sur les r6sultats de la SOTOCO.
Observations
7.     Les audits pour les exercices clos les 31 decembre 1993., 1994 et 1995 ont ete effectues par le cabinet
Price Waterhouse. Les opinions emises tant en ce qui concerne ['attestation speciale et le certificat du credit
1929 TO sont favorables et sont resumees ci-apres:
- les transactions effectuees sur le compte special ont ete effectivnement r6alisees dans le
cadre du projet conformement a ['accord de Pret,
- les fonds ayant fait l'objet de retraits sur la base de relev6 de depenses ont ete utilises pour
les buts definis dans le projet,
- les depenses ont ete effectivement comptabilisees et les pieces justificatives afferentes existent,
- les biens et services admis au financement ont ete acquis aupres de pays mernbres de la
Banque.
Les rapports d'audit n'appellent aucune observation particuliere de notre part.
8.     L'examen des pieces comptables qui appuient les differentes demandes de remboursement de fonds
n'appelle pas d'observations particulieres de notre part. La plupart des DRF ont t etablies sur la base de 1'etat
recapitulatif pour des contrats importants respectant les procedures de passation de marche. Notre r6le a donc
consiste A nous assurer que les avis de non objection de la banque avaient ete obtenus pour l'execution desdits
contrats et que les differentes factures r6gl6es rentrent bien dans le cadre de ces differents contrats.
9.     La mission a pu apprecier les outils de 2estion pour un suivi du credit disponible. 11 s'agit d'un travail
important, la date de cl6ture du projet ayant et dejA prorogee par 2 fois, les contrats en cours etant importants
et le taux de consommation du credit etait deja A plus de 75% en fin 1995. En reconstituant les differentes



33
donnees sur la base des informations disponibles (cf tableau emplois-ressources en annexe), nous avons
constate un depassement de plus 500 millions de FCFA.. Ce depassement ne prend pas en compte la partie
(supportee par la Banque) des frais de fonctionnement des 6 premiers mois de l'annee 1997 estimes a 120
millions de FCFA, ni les honoraires de l'auditeur pour 1996 et 1997. Si une etude comparative du credit
disponible et des engagements prevus avait et realisee 18 mois avant la date de cl6ture dudit projet, elle aurait
permis d'eviter ces depassements en limitant les engagements aux fonds disponibles.
La SOTOCO etant une structure generatrice de revenus (pas comme un projet classique), elle pourra financer
sur ses ressources propres ce depassement. Elle n'a manifestement pas bien apprecie la situation de ses
depenses et engagements par rapport au credit disponible. Le tableau en annexe montre clairement que les
DRF 159; 162 et 168 deja envoy6es A Washington ne pourront pas etre remboursees.
10.    Appreciation du resultat d'exploitation de la SOTOCO. Un extrait les donnees chiffrees contenues
dans les comptes d'exploitation des rapports d'audit de 1992 a 1995, nous a permis de constater:
Les donnees sont en milliers de FCFA.
1992          1993           1994          1995
Resultat d'exploitation
avant subventions           - 2.502.661    - 1.743.044    - 1.014.113    - 1.750.541
Resultat net                  158.791      275.180        73.170        1.654.827
II ressort clairement de cette situation que l'exploitation en dehors de toute subvention et de produits
exceptionnels reste deficitaire, bien que le resultat net soit positif durant les 4 annees. Toutefois, il est precoce
de tirer une conclusion hative sans une appreciation approfondie des differents e1lments expliquant ces
resultats et en particulier I'analyse de ce que la SOTOCO elle meme subventionne (graine de coton, intrants
etc...)
Recommandations
11.    La mission recommande que des dispositions soient prises pour la poursuite d'une gestion saine des
fonds de la SOTOCO meme en l'absence d'un financement et d'un contr6le eventuel des bailleurs de fonds.



Suivi crer(it dlisponible et engagenicnts
EMI'LOIS                                                            IRESSOIJRCEIS
DRr                    Libeliks                  Montant dcv.   Montant CFA                   I.ibellds                Monltant (dev.    Montant CFA
159 Envoy6c h Washington                                           7X,715,443 Disponible ,6 Washington at
03 jUill 97 (voit rcIev6 au 31 mai)  66,263.4 XDR             52,348,000
162 Envoyec . Washinigton                                          98,891,190
Reliqtial conipite spdcila au 03 jtinl 97
Voir E'M. from I lassine I ledda,
164 Annuide                                                                 0 Ext 84397 du 03 juin 97                                       68,645,458
165 Preleve par la Btque sur le Sp.Account                          0
168 Envoy6c a Washington le 21/06/97                               146,016,844
169 Actuellement a la mission residente                            45,146,067
170 Preparee et a envoyer a la mission residente                  132,173,307
Divers rdliqiuat sur marchtc en cours en FCFA                  112,668,707
l)cficit i comllil)cr                               504,549,893
en devises U$ ONAN                             21,306.77        11,931,793
TO'A                                                          6    25,543,361 iJo1rA1                                                  625,543,351
I XnRZ - 790 FCFA              1 U$S = 5fi(1 FCFA



35
-t~SO.TO..CO
- -  . .: .. . -:::: :..   PO RT  D'EV.U.AT..     ....:... . .......   -
- -    :zR:oIE'T       PR:O.]-ErDEIW-  ME M1ENT::  :                      . 
I-  OBJECTIES DU PROGRAMME
1.1-  Objectifs globaux
Le troisieme Projet de Developpemnent Rural dans les regions cotonni6res s'appuie sur les bases
de production et institutionnelles deja 6tablies par les deux premniers projets. 11 s'etend sur une
grande partie du territoire Togolais et vise a poursuivre l'accroissement de la production et de
la productivite du coton et des vi-riers, a developper les groupements villageois et a ameliorer
la capacit6 de mise en oeuvre de la Soc,'te Togolaise du Coton (SOTOCO).
Le projet devrait permettre de renforcer la capacite operationnelle du secteur cotonnier tout en
reduisant ses couts, et introduire de nouvelles dispositions financi6res susceptibles d'ameliorer
leur productivit6 face a la baisse des revenus provoqude par la chute des cours mbndiaux et la
ddpr6ciation du dollar. Du fait que la plus grande partie de la population defavorisee du pays
vit dans les zones nrrales, le projet devrait contribuer A la reduction de la pauvret .dans ces
zones.
Le projet cofinance par ltEtat, les paysans, 11DA et deux organisrmes d'aide fianqais, la CPD et
le FAC couvrait au depart une periode de quatre ans de 1988/89 a 1991/92 niais a 6t6 proroge
au 30 Juin 1995 puis au 30 Juin 1997.
1.2-  Objectifs specifiques
Pour atteindre les obJectifs globaux ci-dessus, les objectifs specifiques ci-aprbs devraient etre
rdalisds  la fin du projet;
l'accroissement de la productivite et de la production du coton et des vivriers grace A
l'arnmlioration de:
- l'efficacit6 des services d'appui de la SOTOCO y compris la vulgarisation
agncole,
- la recherche adaptative, l'approvisionnement en intrants, la formation, le suivi-
dvaluation,
- l'utilisation de la traction anirnale,
- l'entretien des pistes de desserte.



36
* I'appui aux groupements villageois pour la gestioii int&gr6e des intrants agricoles,
* I'amelioration de 1'efficacite de la commercialisation et de la transformation du coton,
y compris la collecte primaire, l'grenage, le stockage, le transport et l'exportation,
* l'am6lioration des dispositions finanlcieres du secte.ur par:
- la suppression graducUe des subventions,
- l'application des cntc. cs cormerciaux aux operations de la SOTOCO,
- r6tablissement dune poLitique de prix flexible qui accorde des incitations aux
paysans et a. la SOUMCO, et qui tienne compte des variations des prix
mondiaux.
11-    POINT SUR L'ETAT D'EMCUTION DES ACTIVITES DU PIOJET
2.1-  Aspects techniques
2.1.1- Aspects agricoles
Les quelques problemes de fonctionnement ali cours des anrnes 1992 et 1993 pftr-ause de
crise socio-6conormique ne rendent pas les evaluations aisees. On peut neaxinoins retenir que
les principaux objectif du projet ont &6 globalement atteints
Pour la prodiction de coton, pendant Iannee precedant le demarrage dui projet, la production
nationale de coton-graine 6tait de 67. 170 tonnes, alors qu'au cours de la campagne 1991/92
(quatdeme annie du projet) et celle de 1994-95, elle a respectivement atteint 96.871 et
131.612 tonnes, soit 73% et 99% de 1'objectif prevu a V&valuation. La production attendue
pour la campagne 1996/97 se situera autour de 135.000 tonnes (108.302 ha) soit 101% de
l'objectif II est a noter que la production de 102.050 tonnes enregistr6es au cours de la
campagne 1995/96 n'est pas repr6sentative au vu des conditions climatiques exceptionelles
enregistr6es dans presque toutes les zones cotonmiires du pays.
Les indicateurs cles qui mesurent le progres accompli par le troisieme projet die developpemnent
rural dans les regions cotonnieres en matiere de production cotonniere sont rconsign6s dans le
tableau ci-aprbs;



37
ESTIMATION DE L'EVOLUTION DE LA PRODUCTION COTOLNNERE
AvanL Ic      Objectifs     Resultats    s iia s  Risu.ltats en  Rc=Iltas en
projet       pour la    de la 4 eme    dc la         %des         % des
1987/88     4 eme anne       ann          mpagne  iccifs (46   objectifs
du projet    (1991/92)   1994/95       annee)      (1994/95)
Nombrr. de planteurs         131.983                    165.933    191.396             -
Superfcies (ha)              67.705        106.000       78.285     92.832            74           87
Prof   on (tonnes)            67.170       133.100       96.871    131.612            73           99
Rendemcnt (Kg/ha)               993          1.256         1.237      1.414           98          113
En ce qui coneeme les cultures vivrnres, les resultats bien plus difficiles a evaluer, semblent
moins probants. Quelques 220.370 ha de cultures vivnieres ont 6te plantes en mals, sorgho,
MiA Ni6b6 et Arachide par les participants au projet au cours de Ia campagne 1991/92, et
314.106 ha au cours de 1,995/96, contre 238.050 ha pr6vus dans les objectifs de depart.-Malgre
le manque de mesures incitatives a l'amelioration de la production et de la productivit6 des
cultures vivrieres, le niveau technique intensif qui int6gre l'utilisation de semences am6liordes,
d'engrais, et de farons culturales perfectionnees a connu une progression.
On peut retenir d'une fa,on globale que si les objectifs en superficies cultivees sont atteints, les
productions et par consequent les rendements sont en dega des projeciions.
Les indicateLirs cles consignds dans le tableau ci-apres mesurent les progres accomplis par le
troisi(rme projet de developpement rural dans les regions cotonnieres en mati&re de production
vivriere Ces indicateurs ont et dlabor6s a parLir d'estimations prudentes
ESTIMATION DE LA CROISSANCE DE LA PRODUCTION VIVRERE
Avant le    Objetifs    Rsisultats   Rdsultars   Resultats  RPsIu1tas
projea    pour la 4     de la 4      de la      en % dcs   en % des
1987/88    Fme annc  eme annie  campagne   objectits    objecfs
.________ _____________  _________    du prvtet   (1991/92)   1994/95   (4e& anInee)  (1994/95)
Supc= cic (ha)        50.604       78.000     95.691      105,714        120         135
MVC     Pmrduction (iomr_)    71500       105.600      91.400      93.240          86          8
Rendealr (Kg/ba)       1.412        1.354        955         8S2  -       70          65
SurxfLies (b)        90.000      1OS.000      77.672       74.939         74          71
Sor,bowMil _Procon(zons)        62.500       78.750      55.951      4.6.723         71          59
Rcrxdcmnn (Kg/ha)       694          750         720         623          96          84
Supcrfices (ha)       18403       20.000     15.665      23.247          78         116
Arac1ide  Produc1iot (toancs)   11.S38       14.210     10.408       13.832         73          97
Reed=at (Kg/ba)         643          703         664         595          94          S5
Supetfwcia (h-t)     24.022        29.100     24.S55       36.922         S3         123
NijW    Production (zo.llas)   15.365      20.580      12Z385      22375           60         108
RandclaunL (KXga)      640          691         498         606          72          S8
SUpaSi- (ha)           1.936        5.250      6.4Al       11.940         123        I24
Riz    Proueon (totiw)        2.201        6.325       5.657      28525           89         135
Rendemdcg (Kg/ba)      13t          1.205        273         714 _        73          59



38
4
Outre le developpement des cultures cotonnires et vivri6res, le projet s'est concentre sur
lFam6lioration de ces principaux services. Les r6sultats suivants peuvent etre souign6s dars les
domaines ci-apres:
Fonrnaion et Vdulgrisaion agricoles. Meme si la production de coton-graine et celle des
vivriers, surtout du stade "amidor6", n'a pas atteint les objectifs fix6s, la diffusion de
recommandations techniques a travers les formations de quinzaine (Formation-visite) a permis
aux paysans de s'approprier des techniques culturales plus performantes sUI le coton et dans
une rnoindre mesure sur les cultures vivri&res.
Au cours du projet, les taches de l'encadrement ont ete all6g6es par le transfert des activites de
gestion et de commercialisation aux groupements agricoles.
La Recherche-dHveloppement. Un effort a &6 fait pour Pintroduction de varietes ameliorees de
Mais (Ikenn6, ABI 1) mieux adapties au regiune cimatique et aux besoins des producteurs. En
appui a la Formation et A la Vulgarisation, la recherche-d6veloppement a pemiis de passer du
traitement ULV au TBV en deux annees. Ce passage a pernis aux paysans de faire des
economies substanielles- Actuellernent des actions soutenues sont engagies pour-luser la
"lutte etagee ciblee" (LEC) dans les zones a chenilles exocarpiques- Un plan de production de
semences coton a ete aussi mis en place pour remplacer la vari6t6 STALM45 par la G18A ou la
H1219A plus performante sur le plan rendement au champ et a I'egrenage-
Les grou?pements villageois.Le projet a mis un accent particulier sur la promotion et la
formation des groupements agricoles. En 1987, la zone du projet compte 141 Groupements
agricoles dont 32 en zone PDR Nots6. En 1996/97 on denombre pr6s de 2.283 groupements
de producteurs de coton (GPC) qui commercialisent la totalite du primaire diu coton-graine, y
coinpris le classement prinaire et gerent entierement les intrants agricoles. (distribution et
r&-updration des credits de campagne). La SOTOCO ne s'occupent plus que de
I'approvisionnernent par l'internmdiaire de fournisseurs priv6s. L'effectif des groupements etait
dijA de 1.919 en 1993. Nombreux sont les groupements qui mrnlent des actions rernarquables
dans le developpement de leur localite.
L'6volution positive des groupements a permis dharmoniser leur denominarion (GAV et APCC
en GPC). Aujourd'hui, dans un processus de responsabilisation plus accrue des producteurs
dans la gestion de la filiere, 26 Unions Prefectorales des Groupements de Producteurs de
Coton (UPGPC) ont etd initi6es avec l'implication des producteurs et de leurs groupements.



39
Cette acton de promotion des groupements a ete fortement appuyee par des programmes
d'alphab6tisation fonctionnelle au sein des groupements. Au totaJ 223 centres d'alphabetisation
ont &t6 crees dans les groupements.
La culture ntel'e. Leas resultats enregistres au cours du PDRI metent en 5vidence l'int&r&t
des paysans pour la traction animale. De 2.548 en 1987, le nombre d'unites de culture atte1e
est passe a 3.870 en 1991. II est aujourd'hui de 4.337 unites. II est a noter une concentration
des attelages dans la region des Savanes (pres de 84%) alors qu'elle est moindre dans la region
des plateaux.
Neat 6td I'augmentation sensible du cout de l1'quipement suite A la devaluation du franc CFA,
les difficultes en approNisionnement en boeufs de traits, le dessouchage difficile des parcelles,
la progression de 1'effectif serait aujourd'hui plus importante. L'clquipement des paysans a &6
suspendu durant la peniode 1992 A 1994 pour des non-remboursement des credits. Avec la
devaluation le coudt de l'attelage est passe de 320.000 francs CFA en 1993 a 520.000 francs
CFA en 1996.
La production des semences. La production de semences commerciales de vivners est
entiirement assur6e par des multiplicateurs sdlectionn6s dans les groupements.
Les intrcmts agricoles. Is sont geres directement par les groupements A qui ils sont cedes sur
les couts de revient reels (engrais, insecticides, perits materiels) a l'exception des semences
coton qui sont encore subventionnees a 100%.
2.1.2- Aspects industrieIs
Afin de permettre A la SOTOCO de renforcer son outil industiel, une reallocation des cr6dits a
ete faite par la Banque Mondiale a l'issue de la revue de son portefeuille an Togo en 1994.
Cette r6allocation visait a perrnettre la rtalisation d'investissements dont ta situation est
presentee dans le Tableau des marches IDA en annexe.
2.1.3- Entretien des pistes
De nombreux travaux de pistes ont &e  rialis6es au cours du PDRIU. Pres de 5.000 km de
pistes font arnuellement l'objet de travaux dont 80% sont r6alisds en sous-traitance.



40
2.2-   Aspects financier et comptable
Apres la rdalisation des investissements evoques plus haut, la situation du cr&dit est la suivarite'
CREDIT IDA 1929 TO
LIELLE        CAT   MONTANT   CONSMT    CONSMTr             SOLDE
ALLOUE       en DTS      en FCFA       en DTS
CONSTRUCTIONS         IA        (1 )       80.252.0s         0 27  -- 60.282
CONSTRUCTIONS         lB         340 CO    200341,1C0   151 6.707     15,90
(MICRO USINE)
EQUiPT & VEHICULES     2       2 17  00  2.497.661,840  1.560266.379    272.338,16
SVCS CONSULTANTS      3         4450      4E.1 12,      21.    7     -2'L21 1 .23
INTRANTS AGRICOLES     4       3 COS 000  3 C07,240  11 74.25.077      1 -2,76
RECHERCHE             SA          s0o ooo   202 370,320    3.19C.000   47 562,68
FONCTIONNEMENT        58       3 2C0CC   3.577225,1 S   1- 477.327    -37225,19
IMPREVUS                         1 coCCD        0,C0                    l I.00D
2.3 Aspect institutionnel
La revue de 1994 a fait ressortir les rdflexions et etudes initides par les cadres de Ia SOTOCO
et visant i recentrer celle-ci sur les activites industrielle et cornmerciale. Ce processus devait
aboutir au delestage de la vulgarisation et au transfert progressif de certaines activit6s aux
organisations paysannes (OP) et aux prives.
A ce jour les progres suivants ont et realises a ce sujet:
- la cominmercialisation prinaire du coton-graine et la gestion des intrants agicoles sort
entinrement assurees par les OP,
- l'importation des intrants a ete confi6e entierement aux soci&ts privies aussi bien
nationales qu'intemnationales;
- 1'entretien, 1'ouverture des pistes et la construction d'outvrages d'art sont en partie
assures par des entreprises priv6es.
- les transporteurs prives assurent l'dvacuation d'une bonae partie du coton-graine des
marches villageois vers les usines, activite exclusive du parc de la SOTOCO jusqu'en
1992.



41
La seule mesure prevue par la restructuration mais non encore realisee reste le transfert de la
vulgarisation aux structures de l'Etat Le retard pris dans la mise en oeuvre du PNASA
explique cette situation. En effet selon le plan de restructuration, la SOTOCO ne rnaintiendra
plus que 163 agents contre 800 -tuellement decentralis6s dans les regions pour le soutien a la
production..
Dans le cadre de la politique de liberaisation de l'econornie togolaise, le gouvemement a
autorise l'installation d'une usine pnv; e d 'egrenage du coton graine a Tsevie dont l'activite a
demarre au cours de la campagne I ,) 5
A compter de janvier 1996, la liberaHsation de 1'exportation de la fibre de coton a ete
proclamee, permettant a cette usirne privee (SICOT) d'etre proprintaire des produits finis
qu'elle ddtient
In- 1MPACT DU PROJET Sl-R LES BENEIICIAIRES
L'irpact du projet sur les rendements et la production n'est pas connu avec precision. On peut
d'une fac-on globale dire que les r6sultats obtenus dans le domaine agricole montren-t que, dans
lVensemble, les differents eIdments et facteurs humains du projet de la SOTOCO ont eu utn
d6veloppernent satdsfaisant.
Toutefois, on peut relever que la culture du coton a eu une action favorable sur le
developpernent des cultures vivri&res par le financement des investissements que les paysans
font sur l'ensemble de leurs exploitations agricoles (achat de semences, d'engrais vivriers,
,quipement en culture attelde). nl est aussi damo6tre que la culture cotoni&re i induit la
maltrise des techniques culturales intensives.
Sur le plan du revenu, le projet a perniis la creation d'un environnement sujr pour le
d6veloppement rural par l'arnelioration des infrastructures rurales (pistes, forages).
D'autre part le revenu que procure le coton a permnis aux producteurs et & leurs groupements
de construire et d'amdliorer leur habitat et les infrastructures rurales telles que les ecoles,
dispensaires, magasins. Le tableau ci-dessous presente l'evolution du revenu coton des
producteurs.



42
EVOLUTION DU REVE.NU MOYEN DU PAYS AN
1988/89   1989/90 -990/91   1991/92    1 96997
RENDEMENT NMOYEN PAR HA         I 086      946      1 246    1 237      1 163
PRIX D'ACHAT DU KG               95        95       100       lCC      1*80
REVENU BRUTA L'HECTARE           101 270    89 870  124 500   123 700   209 340
FORFAIT INTRANTS                 23 600    26 593   28 235    33 270    57 478
MARGE AVANT AMORTISSEMENT        77 670    63 277   96 265    90 430    151 862
AMORTISSEMT MATERIEL              4 500      4 500    4 500     4 500     9 000
AIRATOIRE
MARGE NETTE                      73 170    58 777   91 765    85 930    142 882
NOMBRE HOMME-JOUR DE TRAVAIL        150       150      160       150        150
VALORISATION JOURNEE DE             488       392      612       573        952
|TRAVAIL
Par rapport A la campagne 1989/90 au cours de laquelle le projet a 6te mis en vigueur, on
observe dans la situation des paysans des am61iorations tradtmtes par l'augmentation des
rendements et revenus. I1 corrvient toutefois de noter que le quasi doubleraent diu revenu A
l'hectare en 1996197 s'explique en bonne partie par la devaluation du franc CFA.
IV- PROBLEMES ET CONTRAINTES
Sur lep7an techzique
L'inexistence d'un systeme de credit rural a la taille des besoins des ruraux et i l'absence d'une
politique coh6rente d'appui aux cultures vivrinres font qu'une partie des intrants coton est
detournde sur ces cultures, diminuant de ce fait le niveau de productiviti du cotoa
Le developpement de la culture attelee soufe  des problernes suivants: difficultes
d'approvisionnement en boeufs de trait de bon format en milieu paysan surtout dans les regions
sud, meme A partir des ranches et PROPTA, dificult6s de d6fricher les parcelles dans le sud,
couat trop eleve des bocufs et du materiel.
Les groupements de producteur de coton (GPC) sont pour certains encore dans le dommaine
de la vie organique et de la gestion des ressources.



43
Sur le planfinancier el comptable
Les delais observes par le siege de la Banque mondiale vers la fin du projet pour notifier les
non objectons A I'adjudication des marches se sout considerablemen allonges, occasionrt
des retards dans la commande des travaux, 6quipements et etudes;
A cela, il conyient d'ajouter les longs delais de traitement des memoires de remboursement ou
paiements occasionnis par les servces du Plan et du Tresor.
V- SUGGESTIONS ET PEIRSPECTIVES
Malgr6 ces faiblesses, le premier projet a eu un effet notable sur la production de coton et des
effets moindres sur les cultures vivriares associees; iD. assure une bonne base A un
developpemeint de la fliere cotonruere togolaise. Toutefois la fdire cotonniere qui ne s'est
d6velopp6e que grace aux efforts consentis a travers les trois projets successifs est encore
fragile. Elle mnrite de continuer A b&naflcier d'un environnement s6curisant pour que les effets
du demier projet s'expriment enti&rement. Les reformes en cours d'elaboration doive-nr en tenir
compte.



GO                                                                                     M hNAURITANIA M                                       NIGER
MALI                                   7
BURKINA  FASO                            H<SENEGAL ' jJ  X                                                               CHAD
r-11    \8 \ I                                        _, -GAMBRIAt  BURKINA,-Z   -
FASG     - -
*jTh.,                                                           C ),   .  7   BtSSU GUINEA   !L.L K  C    .RENIN)                     /   \
T-                                                SIERRA' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G*U@                    NIGERIA
E                 7OTE D'IVORREE PL 
N.>       |                                                 < <PK                      0                                         jC '--  '  :S E 4TLANT/C  AMR    CFRGNT
SAV/>  i          'ANNA   .. Si(Y                                                                                        EF CEAN
CRGP ROrAT,O  SN   ,  t    / T                                                                                                    GABGN  0CGONG
CR-OP SRCYtATDNC  NXFR   7p         =        w'   TOGO
CAN.5 Lt /7'JUS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AERO
CC7.To$9 NS755;      ,:0                            <                            COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CC.TO,2Ni2        4    /  ,                             7>-   .   PROJET DEf DEVELOPPMENT DU SECTEUR CO TON
j         ,                    G   j~~ PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE AND COTTON GROWING AREAS
,;~~~~~~                          7i--;  :   ,. i  -o,/   W/    N/    I NFRASTRUCTURE DU PROJET ET ZONES COTONNIERES
N fC  f : i:   l,  ~ V    _   / El                                  CGTTON PR OECINA AREAS
OUT/SUE PGALLTIGNCGTANBON
CROP OrAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUET ESSATR
. =  z  :S:S   V    /    t          ,7(>D_/    y /          i                             SIEGE DU PROJE7
0 - 0 : S f < K A R >' ! 3 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STGCG ROHECELRCOHE APPLIOSPEE VIV2RERS
: ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~                      ~          ~~~~~~~~~ S- t 4                I7ATG ONE RECHERCHE IRCE
-  \     A         l       L    H     S     S ;                             U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55F SE EGRENAGF SE C07GN
0&80ssor t9t .t JrX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATELIERS
7go                                 (OKO N
N.- I                            ,~ z; \.L                                    COTTONSECT I          FORETS RESVELO NPATIONAL PARKS
-. .                 rF&I0 0   V   j  0:    N  T AI P        I j YAS     RUjAFE  RNDCOPALER 3ROA                        A
~~~   ~   ~     ~         ~ NRATRCUR     U  POJFSECONLAET ZlONES CO                    NIE S
\   fSO 1OUBOIJA    J          I      :,       :CORS S EAS IMPORTANGS
ZSOPESEES ENPMALIMETRES  E
: 0 _ ;.    . 9,        :  0 ,\          2           /     ) 2               ~~~~~~VALLES CHTOI51E5              )
PROJEFECTURECAPUTRLS
CESIEGE D E PREECTUE(
REGION FOCAPITALS ID EEAC
K                                                        SOTO, 0 ~9 CHEF5-LIEUT SE REGION A
?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                        NATKI ONAL   CAPITALE 
A               -    P Tdx7\ {% RCTARE BOUNDARIE S SAO
C                                0                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la MIFSTTN DE PREFHERCTERES
k~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -,-RGIGNERGY URE
H'                                                                         I               L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LUIMNESD SEGRENGIONSCTO
I               P _.,~'   <  -*- TRONFRES INTERNATOVNALES  A
(!)~~~      ~             ~ ~~                                          ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ COT SEDO ILSCER PRIVE
,T Af             DEf  T ON   (HR PIOBETN
-    = '.' = AmDU j7>-T GL                                                                                  CESA   3      A       PARK
-7s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUE PRINC/,                                           PALE/ 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  YEX IN M  OO jILLIMETERSj
iS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLE CH\/   \S                   tES 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEE    UREV1                                          CAPITALS  <                     _ ,       4 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HF .L...,/IEU DEo WE /T J
jR;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(IE DE    TURES.a   LOL         2                                                 =



TA                                                                                             AAMAURITANIA         k        h\ALI           !            NIGER
F,  MALI           J1
BURKINA  FASO                                  < SENEGAL                                                                            C ADr
GMABEAf ~~~~~~                  R~URKINA
-11' 7- -                                   FASO G        -
BISA       GUINEA      >L              2R      N N
I- ERR                                   I        NIGERIA           5
_GHANA !                                     CENTRAL
__\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEI~.                                                      GH                                          t\  AFRICAN
REPUBLIC
_  ;_   A- A.Ne :   (  -                       CAMLEROON
A  Ax7,
- 5S&QANfSA                                                                                                                 t*Q -m?
OTl                                                                                                         GUINEA    F- PTR
GABON    CiOCGEG
F            :                     . .                                                      TOGO                                       3
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LW9                                         :y1   KERkV                         3;>  PROJET DE DEVELOPPMENT DU SECTEUR COTON
-\ --jg |AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AREA RESPONSIBILITIES
j        ,_zv    ,-^                                ~~~~~~~~ZONA LIZA TION DE RESPONSA BIL /TES DE
FIG Ou                                      VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
t  t                   /            (                           IIIIESO~~~~~M5TOCO
DONOR FINANCED EXTENSION PROJECTS:
-    -                          R~~~~~~~~~~~UTRES PEGJEEG UE VULUARISATDON AGRICGLE
t     4SSOLI    z         V                             PS~~~~~~~~~~~FNANCE PAR GOUVERNEMENT DU TOGO / BAILLEURB DE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - DRDR (IDA)
ElPROET DE VULGAR SATION AGRICOLE - DRDR (IDAI
-PRGJET FEU SAVANIESSAPEDI
GH   A        NA                                                                                             Hi%-PUIRT (GTl
S SRCC (DA, CCCE, FAC)
_go URS A ASSOCIATION POGR LA PRODUCTIVITE IUSAID)
FORGESTS RESERVES. NATIONAL PARES
GORETS, RESERVES. PARCS NATIONAUX
-MEAIN RGADSS
ROUTES PRINCIPALES                     3
SELECTED SECONDARY RGADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES CHO(SIES
MAIN RISERSS
COURS D'EAU IMPORTANTS
tSGHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
ISOHYERTES EN MILLIMETRES             (
oSELECTED TOWNS
VILLES CHOISIES
   PREFECTURE CAPITALS
CHEE -LIESU DE PREFECTURE             J
REGION CAPITALS
CHEES-LIEUXT SE REGION
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CARPTPAL
PREFECTURE BOUNDAREES
LIMITES E PREFECTURES 
_REGION BOUNDARIES
LIMITE5 US REGIONS                    -              B'
INERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   /
FRONTItRESS LNTERNATIGNALES
WAWA                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E  N    IS N 1E- 
LR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                     _         o       U9''Kto
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



