Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7170-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 31, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central
Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       CFA Franc JCFAF)
US$1.00             CFAF 277 a
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFDT      -    Compagnie Francaise de Developpement des Textiles
CNCA      -    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
DRA       -    Direction de la Recherche Agronomique
DRDR      -    Direction Regionale du Developpement Rural
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GAV       -    Grcupement Agricole Villageois
IRCT      -    Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles
MDR       -   Ministbre du Developpement Rural
M&E       -   Monitoring and Evaluation
OPAT      -    Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
RAV       -    Recherche Accompagnement Vivriers
SAL       -    Structural Adjustment Lending
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditures
SOTOCO    -    Societe Togolaise du Coton
SRCC      -    Societe Nationale pour la Renovation et le
D3veloppement de la Cacaoyere et de la Cafeibre
Togolaises
T&V       -    Training and Visit Agricultural Extension System
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SOTOCO'S FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
a/   The exchange rate of CFA Franc (CFAF) is fixed at 50:1 with the
French Franc, which is a floating currency.



VOROX . ..IA     . t..L
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa&e
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE        ............................. iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .. . . ...... v
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .........................  ix
I.   INTRODUCTION   ...................................                   1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .       ............. ................1.... 
A.   Main Features    ............................... ....    1
B.   Government's Agricultural Strategy and IDA's
Involvement in the Sector .........................   2
C.   Principal Constraints Facing Agriculture .....       .........   3
D.   The Food crops and Cotton Sectors ...........5... .......   S
lIII  TEHE PROJECT        ... 9
11.        POET................................................ 9
A.   General  ............................................          9
Rationale, Project Concept and Objectives.                  9
Project Description ...      ... ,....   10
B.  Detailed Project Features    ..... .10
1.  Agricultural Production and Productivity Program ..  10
2.  Efficiency Improvements in Cotton Sector Operations  15
3.  Producer Pricing Policy        ........             .    17
C.   Project Costs and Financing            ..       . .18
Cost Lstimates                        . ..                 18
Financing Plan and Arrangements        . . .               20
Procurement                     ....21
Disbursement                    ..... 23
Reporting, Accounts and Audits        . . .24
D.   Project Management and Implementation        ....    ......  24
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which
took place from 9 to 27 November, 1987, consisting of Messrs. Raine
(mission leader), and Fayd'herbe, Spurling and Shaw (IDA). Messrs.
D'Andlau (CCCE) and F4lix (FAC) also participated in this joint
mission. Figures were checked by Mr. Bakayoko, and secretarial work
was done by Mrs. C. Asare.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be d1iscbosed without Wofld Bankc authotization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..    ........................... 26
A.  Production, Markets and Prices ......    .................. 26
B.  Environmental Impact ..........   ........................ 28
C.  Financial Implications to Farmers, SOTOCO and Government 28
SOTOCO's Financial Performance ........ .............. 30
Producer Floor Price Support Fund .................... 33
Government ..........................................  33
D.  Economic Analysis ..................................... 33
Overall Benefits ....................................  33
Economic Rate of Rcturn .........  .................... 34
Sensitivity Analysis ............ .................... 34
Risks ...........................................  34
V.  ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .....    ............. 35
MATRIX OF MONITORABLE ACTIONS ...........  ........................ 37
ANNEXES
1.  Supply and Demand of Locally Produced Food crops
2.  Key Indicators First and Second Rural Development Projects in
Cotton Areas
3.  Agronomic Packages
4.  Technical Assistance
5.  Price Setting for Export Crops
6.  Project Cost by Component and Type of Expenditure
7.  Detailed Financing Plan
8.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.  SOTOCO's Organigram
10. Incremental Cottor. Production
11. Incremental Food Crop Production
12. SOTOCO's Profit and Loss Forecast
13. SOTOCO's Source and Application of Funds Forecast
14. SOTOCO's Balance Sheet Forecast
15. Government Cash Flow
16. Economic Rate of Return
17. Economic Farmgate Prices - Cotton, Sorghum, Maize
MAPS: IBRD No. 21023R - Project Infrastructure and
Cotton Growing Areas.
IBRD No. 21024R - Agricultural Extension Area Responsibilities.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT VILE
A.  DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Etude de la Filibre Coton au Togot Rapport Principal
et Rapport de Synthase; CFDT, Jullet 1987.
2.   Evaluation Ex-Post du Deuxieme Projet d  De  elo   _  t
Rural de la SOTOCO (PDR II). Rapport Princlpal *t Annees
SOTOCO, Juin 1987.
3.   Evaluation Ex-Ante du Projet de Ddveloppemnt Rural
Intdrimaire de la SOTOCO (PDR Inter). Rapport Principal
et Annexes. SOTOCO, Juin 1987.
4.   Etude Diagnostic du Cycle de la ComercialLsation.
Arthur Anderson, Mai 1987.
5.   Politique des Prix aux Producteurs des Cultures
d'Exportation (Document de Travail). tiniLatre du Plan
et de l'Industrie, Novembre 1986.
6.   Resultats Analytiques Fibres Compares (not publihed)
CFDT, November 1985.
7.   Survey of Cost of Production of Raw Cotton.  43rd Plenary
Meeting of the International CottGn Advisory Cooimttoe,
Arusha, Tanzania, October 1984.
B.   STAFF WORKING PAPERS
1.   Agricultural Program
2.   Extension and Research
3.   Farmrrs Groups and Functional Literacy Program
4.   Seed Production
5.   SOTOCO's Training Program
6.   Monitoring and Evaluation
7.   OPfT's Reorganization Terms of Reference
8.   Cotton Sector Cost Analysis
9.   Detailed Cost Tables



- v -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Government of Togo
Beneficiarys   Soci4t6 Togolaise du Coton (SOTOCO)
Amount:        SDR 10.9 million (US$15.1 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinanciers:  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
(US$11.5 million equivalent) and Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) (US$3.3 million equivalent).
Proiect
Descrintion:   The project, the third in the cotton sector, would seek
to increase the efficiency and productivity of Togo's
successful cotton and food crop production, begun in
1977 with IDA, CCCE and FAC cofinancing. This would be
achieved through: (a) increasing farmers productivity
as a means to increase cotton and food crop production;
(b) improving the cost-effectiveness of SOTOCO's cotton
processing and marketing operations; and (c) modifying
the sector's financial arrangements to be more
responsive to world price fluctuations and to provide
the sector's participants (farmers, SOTOCO and
Government) with greater incentives. Costs of
production of cotton fibre are forecast to decrease by
over 25Z by the end of the project. The participants'
revenues would increase as a result, as would Togo's
international competitiveness in cotton production.
SOTOCO would operate on a financially independent and
commercial basis.



- vi -
latimeted Protect Cost
Z of Base
Local     Foreign    Total       Cost
-- (US$ million) ----
Rztension                       6.15       3.46      9.61       29.5
Ieeearch                        0.34       0.50      0.83        2.6
acmerfm Groups                  1.52       0.15      1.68        5.2
Ageicultural Inputs             0.77       3.11       3.88      11.9
Seed Production-Foodcropu       0.63       0.64      1.27        3.9
teeder Road Maintenance         2.68       2.20      4.88       15.0
Training                        0.96       1.30      2.26        7.0
MNa=torfg a Ivaluation         0.98       0.62       1.60       4.9
Managemenit Support             0.93       3.57      2.50        7.7
Cotton Marketing                1.54       2.48      4.01       12.3
bass Costs Al                  16.50      16.03     32.53      100.0
Physical Couting4mcies          0.45       0.67      1.12        3.5
Price Contingencies             2.03       1.83      3.86       11.9
Total Costs                    18.98      18.53     37.51      115.4
I XIncludes times
Local     Foreign    Total
------ (US$ million) ------
GOVeO n ONt                     5.04       2.06      7.10
IDA                             6.08       9.00     15.08
CCCI                            6.90       6.01     11.54
VAC                             5.53       1.42      3.31
Farmers Groups                  1.89       0.04      0.48
Total                     18.98     18.53      S7.51
h&tAate4disburebiment-from IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Years
89    90    91    92    93    94    95
…-__     (US$ million) ----------…
Annual           1.8   3.0   3.0   3.0   2.8   1.2   0.3
Cmulative        1.8   4.8   7.8  10.8  13.6  14.8  15.1



- vii -
Benefits and Risks
The project's benefits ^lclude improving the efficiency of
Togo's saccessful cotton production and making it more competitive
internationally, and supporting the Government's role of restructuring
its rural development services and policies. As most of the large
capital investments typical of a cotton industry have already been
made under two earlier p,ojects, and production is forecast to
increase almost 60% at a relatively small incremental cost, the rate
of return is high, over 502. The revenues of the sector's
participants (168,000 farm families by project completi-n or about 601
of rural households), SOTOCO and Government would increase
significantly. Because most of the country's poor live in the rural
areas, the project would have an important poverty alleviation
benefit.
The main project risk would be farmers attempting to save on
inputs costs as subsidies are removed by not using the correct amount
of insecticides. A more effective extension service and a pest
scouting program would provide the information and monitoring
necessary to ensure proper insecticide use. Experience in neighboring
countries that have eliminated subsidies has shown that farmers
understand the value of insecticide use and do not significantly
reduce its use. A second risk, exogonous to the project but inherent
to the industry, is possible declines in world prices compared to Bank
projections. The sector's already competitive position would be
further improved by the forecast cost reductions (27Z in real terms)
under the project which would significantly improve Togo's ability to
tolerate world price fluctuations.
Economic Rate of Return: Over 502
Staff Appraisal Report: NO 7170-TO
Maps: IBRD Nos. 21023R and 21024R.



- ix -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Unit            Size
(1982 unless noted)
1. Ponulation
Total                             (1985 - million)        3.0
Rural as Z of Total                   1                   ?7
Density (average and variatiop)  Pop/km2 (range)          48 (20-100)
2. Economic Overview
GNP/Capita                          $ (1983)             264
Rural Income/Capita                 $ (1983)              96
GNP                              Value, CPAF, m.         303
Agriculture share of GNP         Value, CPAF, m.          93
Of which - Eport crops                                    8
- Domestically
used crops                  *                69
Non crop                                      16
3. Land Use
Total area                             000 km2            56.6
Forests (more than 502 covered)        000 km2             5.5
Perennial Crops                        000 km2             1.1
Annual Crops (Cultivated)              000 km2             4.8
Of which cotton                                           0.7
4. Output                                                   (1983184)
Cereals             000 t (index 72/73 - 100)         307.4 (1.32)
Root crops           a              a                 801.1 (1.04)
Cotton (seed)        a                                 30   (5.17)
Cocoa                a              *                  14   (0.75)
Coffee               a              a                    8   (1.18)
Cereals per capita                (kg)                109
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                       (1985 - 000 t)        19
Chemicals                        (1985 - 000 1)    1,500
Improvad seed                    (1985 - t)         3,957
6. Trade
Total Exports               billion   CFAF                62.6
Of which agricultural
products                                 (2)            17.8 (28)
- cocoa                       n       *  a              4.9 ( 8)
- coffee                      *       U  *              6.3 (10)
- cotton                      *          a6.6 (11)
Total Imnorts                                             128.3
Of which food and beverage   *             a             34.9 (27)
- cereals/flour                *       i  '              5.7 (4)
- meat/fish                            a  a               4.4 (3)
Of which agricultural
inputs                         *           a              3.3 (3)



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Togo requested IDA assistance for the financing
of a Cotton Sector Development Project. This project would follow the
First and Second Rural Development Projects in Cotton Areas (Cr. 741-TO,
Cr. 1302-TO) the first of which just fell short of its objectives, while
the secrnd surpassed most objectives. Funds from a Supplemental Credit
(Cr. 1302-1-TO) are presently committed. The proposed project would build
on the solid foundation established by the first two projects to further
inrrease production and productivity of cotton and food crops, develop
farmer groups, and improve the Societe Togolaise de Coton's (SOTOCO)
implementation capacity. The project would introduce efficiency
improvements in the cotton sector's operations while cutting costs, and new
financing arrangements which would provide the sector's participants with
incentives to improve their productivity. Although Togo is among the nore
competitive cotton producing countries in West Africa, these l&st
objectives were included given the recent revenue reduction caused by the
drop in world cotton prices and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against
the CFAF.  Since cotton is traded in dollars, this has reduced the CFAF
income of Togo's cotton industry. The project would be implemented over a
four-year period at a cost of about US$37.5 million and would be cofinanced
by Government, farmers, IDA, and French aid (CCCE and FAC).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Main Features
2.        Togo's agricultural sector accounts for about 30Z of GNP (before
processing of agricultural products) and employs about 1 million persons
full or part-time (about 80X of the national labor force). Domestic crop
production ensures a satisfactory overall level of food self-sufficiency
(about 1,800 calories per person per day). The sector also produces
cotton, cocoa and coffee together contributing about 30Z to Togo's export
earnings, with cotton providing about lOZ. TaAes from export crops and
profits on export crop trading generated until recently about 1O0 of
Government's revenues. Togo's economic prospects and the Bank's
involvement in the country are covered in Country Brief No. Sec-M-87-301 of
March 1987.
3.        Farmers annually plant about 450,000 ha of food crops (maize,
rice, sorghum, cowpea, groundnuts, yam, cassava), 80,000 ha of cotton, and
110,000 ha of perennial crops including coffee, cocoa and oil paln,. Food
crops account for about 75Z of agricultural production. Growth in the
sector has been modest since the early 1970s; about 22 p.a. for cereals,



-2-
slightly less than 12 p.a. for root crope, and an actual decline up en 1986
in coffee and cocoa production. The major exception to these trends has
been cotton production which has grown at 82 p.a. and included 132,000
cotton farmers or about 502 of the country's total in 1987. Most of the
growth in annual crops has come from area expansi%,n rather than
productivity gains.
4.        The lack of an appropriate agricultural development strategy that
provides support services and adequate incentives to farmers is largely
responsible for the sector's modest performance. In the last five year",
Togo's agricultural strategy has evolved rapidly and resnlts h.ve generally
been positive, although several constraints still remain. IDA has been
closely associated with these ehanges and continues to assist ir. rewoving
existing constraints.
B.   Government's Agricultural Strategy and IDA's Involvement in the Sector
5.        Until 1984, Government's principal concern in the agricultural
sector was promating export crop production, so that Togo could take
advantage of favorable world markets ror cotton, and renew the production
base for the coffee and cocoa industries which had deteriorated over the
last 40 years. Food crop production was not seen as a problem, as Togo did
not suffer as badly from adverse weather as its northern, lower rainfall
neighbors, and production regularly grew at the same rate as population
(Anne. 1).  Government and donors' main instrument for public investment in
support of agriculture was crop or area development projcts, which
included extension. research, seed production, input supply and feeder
roads components. IDA financed or is financing five such projects - two
coffee/cocoa projects through the Societe Nationale pour la Renovation et
le Developpement de la Cacaoyere et de la Cafeibre Togolaises (SRCC) (Cr.
503-TO, 94i-TO), two cotton projects through the Societe Togolaise du Coton
(SOTOCO) (Cr. 741-TO, 1302-TO) and one area development project (Cr.
638-TO). The first two projects (Cr. 503 and 638-TO) did not achieve all
their objectives, but the other three have come close to or surpassed
theirs.
6.        With IDA assistance, Government undertook two studies in 1984 to
review the effectiveness of the above strategy. At the project level, the
duplication of efforts, overlapping of jurisdictions, and in some cases,
very modest results became evident. At the level of farmers' incentives,
it was found that prices paid to farmers covered costs of traditional
production practices (low input, low output), but were inadequate to
support the adoption of improved technologies, or in the case of tree
crops, new planting. As a result of these findings, Government prepared a
new Medium-Term Rural Development Strategy with financing from IDA's Second
Technical Assistance Project (TA II - Cr. 1270-TO). The strategy's main
objectives were maintaining food self-sufficiency, increasing Government
revenue from export crops, and providing advice and inputs to farmers to
promote production and producti ity increases. In addition, and different
from earlier objectives, the strategy called for the development of
national level support services supervised and managed by the Ministry of
Rural Development (MDR) rather than continuing to promote enclave type
projects. However, the weakness of this laudable proposal was that the
institutional and professional infrastructure did not exist to manage
national level services.



- 3 -
7.        TDA reviewed this strategy and agreed with the objectives.  It
recommended additionally, however, that greater emphasis be given to
farmers' incentives, i.e., the use of price policy to increase farm
ircomes, particularly for export craps which unlike food crops could be
controlled through appropriate policies. In that same year, Government
carried out several policy changes in the context of the Second Structur"l
Adjustment Lending program (SAL II - Cr. 1599-TO). Producer prices of
cotton, cocoa and coffee were increased 25Z, 202 and 29Z respectively in
real terms, and MDR began to plan a program for reforming the operation of
key agricultural support services.
8.        Government consolidated these policy changes in its "New Strategy
for Rural Development" Government's agricultural strategy (La Nouvelle
Stratdgie), issued in March 1985. This articulated the strategy of
strengthening national support services, having enclave-style projects
conform to common norms, and improving economic incentives to farmers.
This strategy is now being implemented and supported by IDA and other
donors. The extension services were the first to be aligned nationally.
The Training and Visit (T&V) system was introduced - first through pilot
experiences using direct IDA technical assistance, and later by the
Agricultural Extension Project, which has already begun training.
IDA-financed and other projects including SOTOCO are alreaey using the T&V
system. An Agricultural Services Project which would cover research, seed
production, input supply, and sector planning and monitoring is now under
preparation. Project monitoring and evaluation is being consolidated into
a national service. Production increases from higher producer prices are
evident (para 20).
C.   Principal Constraints Facing Agriculture
9.        Togo's economic well-being will depend on growth in the
agricultural sector for a considerable time into the future, as a vehicle
for (a) maintaining food security; (b) generating cash incomes for the
rural population (farm and non-farm families alike): (c) supporting its
balance of payments; and (d) generating tax revenue, preferably via the
taxation of spending and consumption rather than taxation of exports. It
is estimated that the agricultural sector can grow at a rate of between
4-6Z per annum. The constraints on attaining this growth rate and measures
launched or being prepared for relieving them are discuesad below.
10.       Economic Incentives.  Farmers will continue to require adequate
cash incomes to reinvest in new technologies. The principal source of this
revenue, which can be efficiently managed througlh policy means, is export
crop prices. Since 1984, Government has continued to raise farmgate prices
of cotton, coffee and cocoa to between 85 and 95Z of the f.o.b. prices, net
of domestic marketing and processing costs. However, if exchange rates and
markets continue to move against Togo, these nominal prices might not be
sustainable in the future. Thus, it is necessary to define a system for
managing future price adjustments. As part of the proposed SAL III and
the proposed Cotton Sector Development project, Government would adopt a
flexible system which would allow maximum returns to farmers, compatible
with world market conditions.



- 4 -
11.       Establishing adequate producer price levels for export crops
cannot be dissociated from the cost and efficiency of processing and
marketing these crops. Local marketing and processing costs for cotton
would be reduced under the proposed project while means to reduce coffee
and coc-a's are being studied, as part of the ongoing Third Coffee/Cocoa
Project. The second and third SAL programs have begun to reform and
restructure OPAT, the state agricultural export company (para 21) so as to
reduce export marketing costs and increase its effectiveness.
12.       Availability of Technology and its Transfer.  Simple, field-
proven techniques exist to increase agricultural productivity.
Government's short-term priority in agriculture has been to improve its
capacity to teach farmers these new techniques. As mentioned in para 8,
Government has begun the restructuring of its support services with
agricultural extension, and positive results are already apparent. In the
medium-term, Togo must update its technical knowledge to remain competitive
in evolving markets. Agronomic research is weak, owing to low levels of
funding, inadequate direction and focus, and inefficient feedback systems
from the field. The improved extension services will provide part of this
feedback, and the proposed Agricultural Services project will include
improving the management and execution of agronomic research.
13.       Food crop Marketing.  Surplus food crop production is presently
limited in Togo by the fact that local demand (excluding wheat and rice) is
largely met except in drought years (Annex 1).  Occasional food deficits in
neighboring countries do provide some opportunities for export, but demand
is not sufficiently regular to stimulate significant surpluses for which
Togo has a large untapped potential. In addition, while long-term average
food crop prices have not decreased as production and demand have slowly
grc-;l (para 3), price fluctuations within the year occur since as agreed
under SAL II, inter-seasonal arbitrage is limited. To deal with this,
Government attempted to promote production and stabilize prices by
intervening directly in the market; this was abandoned as high cost and
ineffective, and as agreed under SAL II only a 12,000 ton food security
stock is now maintained. Government now relies on farmers groups and
traditional private traders to balance supply and demand. Several donors
are promoting Government's plans set up on-farm and rural cooperative
storaga facilities run by farmers to permit them to serve the arbitrage
functions.  To seek and promote new market outlets, IDA is financing under
SAL III a study that would identify new markets and facilitate the export
of food crops.
14.       Sustainable Public Institutions and Their Funding.  Although 30
agricultural projects exist and an equal number has been proposed for
1988-90, only half of Togo's 260,000 farm families receive agricultural
support services. Most projects, with their individual management and
sources of funding, have little chance of surviving when their external
financing terminates, as they are neither integrated into regular public
institutions nor collectively represent a viable alternative. The export
crop promotion agencies SOTOCO and SRCC are exceptions, due respectively to
a high level of self-financing and integration in the national budget.
However, SOTOCO has had to take on rural development activities for
Government, (e.g., seed production, research, water and road development),



thus diffusing its management effort and not allowing it flexibility to
adjust costs when the cotton market deteriorates. Realizing the sector's
growth potential will require reaching the maximum possible number of
farmers with the services needed for modernization through more focussed,
professional and cost-effective national services and institutions. This
will require an increase in the level of funding for agricultural
operations and investments. Government is moving away from proposing
numerous projects as a means of attracting external financing, to
developing a credible, internally consistent budget for the execution of a
series of priority programs. IDA is assisting in this effort by providing
technical assistance at MDR level (TA II) to improve the preparation of
investments and the coordination of research. As part of SAL III,
Gover.anent will increase the share of the budget for operating costs
(salaries excluded) from 10 to 25Z. The Agricultural Extension Project and
the proposed Agricultural Services project will assist in setting up viable
national level services integrated into the budget, as well as improving
MDR's technical and financial investment planning and formulation. A
review of the agricultural sector public expenditures is also planned for
this fiscal year. Other donors support is also being requested and in some
cases has already been offered for this new approach.
D.   The Food Crops and Cotton Sectors
15.       Food crops.  The main constraint to increasing production of food
crops in Togo is weak demand (para 13). Thus, although the lack of stable
outlets will slow down the adoption of higher cost and risk improved
technologies, many simple, low risk and low input technological
improvements are being adopted by farmers because they increase their
productivity, i.e., less labor to achieve the same and higher yields. The
increases in productivity and production and the key indicators for the
first two projects are presented in paras 16 and 20 respectively and
detailed in Annex 2.
16.       Cotton.  The cotton production program in Togo can be considered
a successful operation in many respects. The graphs below demonstrate:
the production increases,...                   the productivity increases,...
t' /gt 'L\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
.f   t       *           *_        *          ."          * "          sS.~~~~~~~1
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



and the increase in number of cotton farmers.
ta
I:
.a .
Y_
17.       With the exception of half of the Maritime Region and the
coffee/cocoa area to the southwest of the Plateau Region, cotton can be
grown throughout Togo. In 1987, nearly 132,000 rural families (502 of
rural households) grew cotton. Cotton, in the course of the first two
cotton projects, has provided farmers with a reliable cash income and has
become a key component of annual crop farming systems. Cotton in the crop
rotation has also benefited food crop productivity through its residual
fertilizer effect, the higher standards of general husbandry which it has
generated, and the availability of cash for the purchase of inputs for food
crops. Research (through IRCT and SOTOCO programs) and extension are
beginning to be provided to farmers for their whole farming system, thereby
ensuring the most effective use of land and other resources and avoiding
wasteful duplication of agricultural services.
18.       Cotton's contribution to the economy is considerable
(paras 2, 3). Despite the difficulties in cross-country comparisons,
according to a 5-year (1982-1986) study of nine Francophone cotton
producing countries in West Africa, Togo annually ranked between 1st and
4th in lowest cost of production and highest profit margin and export
price achieved. Worldwide, this ranks Togo among the lower cost producers
(Documents Nos. A.6 and A.7 in Project File). More recently however, its
export prices achieved have been comparatively lower.
19.       Reasons for this success can best be measured from the producer's
point of view. In two sociological studies of the cotton farmer, the
reasons farmers gave for growing cotton are: favorable and stable prices,
guaranteed market, availability o' credit for production inputs, a timely
input supply system, and a useful extension service. For most smallholders
in Togo, cotton is the sole annual cash crop offering reliable financial
returns. For the above situation to exist, a good organization must be in
place. SOTOCO, which has directed this large effort, started out as a
small cotton agency in 1974 and has progressed significantly both in
institutional development and managerial competence. Most key managerial
and technical posts are now held by Togolese staff.



- 7 -
20.       IDA, CCCE and FAC nave assisted Government in developing the
cotton sector.  The chart below demonstrates the close correlation between
production increases and
10.                               0 1     (a) the two Rural Development
Projects in Cotton Areas, and
(b) the policy of increasing
producer prices which is a
part of Government's
Structural Adjustment Program
supported by IDA (para 7).
While the correlation of
increased producer prices with
production response is very
direct, it is also clear that
the projects had a significant
____________.__________,___________    effect   on   production,   as   the
farmers' responses testify
e     VW              , t     In I         (para 19).
First RDP     Second RDP
21.       Cotton Sector Constraints.  The export marketing of cotton fibre
through OPAT (para 11) has proven to be a serious constraint on maximizing
export earnings according to several studies (Documents Nos. A.1 and A.4 in
Project File). OPAT is responsible for the purchase and export of cocoa,
coffee, cotton, palm oil, and groundnvts and for the stabilization of the
producer prices for these commodities. Togo uses the "bareme" system to
define institutional responsibilities and to distribute revenues earned
from each export crop. This same system is used in the nine other
Francophone cotton producing countries in West Africa. The annual bareme
not only pre-sets the producer price OPAT purchases the export crop at, but
also sets fixed margins for itself, the crop specific agencies (SOTOCO,
SRCC) and/or traders who collect/process the crops. In addition, from the
revenues OPAT retains, its is also supposed to stabilize producer prices.
No formal stabilization fund exists however.
22.       A World Bank Impact Evaluation Report of Cotton Development in
Burkina Faso, COte d'Ivoire and Togo (No. 6878), praised the cotton
development overall in the three countries, but cites as problems the
bareme system's rigidity and Government's excessive share in risk-taking in
relation to maintaining fixed (presently high) producer prices. When world
prices dropped in 1986, Government suffered important losses (para 78)
because it could not adjust the fixed margins set by the bareme system.
Compounded to these problems, OPAT's performance has been poor both in
commodity marketing for which is does not have specific expertise and in
operations management where overstaffing and excessive costs prevail. Thus
OPAT's bareme margin has traditionally been disproportionately high, so as
to cover its sizeable overheads (about CFAF 470 million in 1987), leaving
less funds to be distributed to farmers.
23.       OPAT's performance as regards the cotton sector has been
particularly detrimental. The OPAT studies (para 21) criticized OPAT's
inventory management which results in excessive handling of the product and



- 8 -
deterioration of quality due in some cases to poor storage techniques.
OPAT does not account for revenue surpluses generated by humidity
absorption weight gains between ginnery and sale point which can add up to
3Z of the fiber original weight and value. SOTOCO has no financial
responsibility downstream of point of delivery at OPAT's warehouse in Lome.
From that point on, SOTOCO is divorced from the demands of the market.
There is thus no incentive to either improve fiber quality and rate of
delivery or reduce costs. No producer-client relationship, so important to
the textile millers and a premium earner, is created. Other cons- traints
which arise from the absence of a cotton marketing specialization within
OPAT are: (a) an excessive reliance on intermediaries some of which are
relatively inexperienced, often resulting in higher costs; (b) risks for
Togolese cotton which is of top quality to compete against itself on the
international markets because of the various intermediaries selling the
cotton; and (c) increasing reliance on f.o.b. sales with excessive freight
and insurance margins; e.g., at present OPAT is charged CFAF 50,000/ton
European port, versus current quotes of CFAF 44,000. Under this proposed
project and SAL III, export marketing arrangements would be changed.
24.       Recent world price and exchange rate fluctuations have resulted
in losses for Togo's cotton sector, although not as serious as in most
other West African cotton producing countries. The graphs below show the
CFAF/kilo cotton fibre received by Togo during the last four years and the
exchange rate differentials (the CFAF is tied to the French Franc at 50:1).
Sales Pdce Togo Rbre
(Alto V 4/46, CIF N. Europe)  Doular Exchange Rate Meltmv to Ff
r4AJSS_                          1
i8700   5207/'I 1,
it   I    I   V  V . , 14 11  ,3          42 I  I    5
0  6--41 74.
While world prices have recuperated somewhat, the losses Togo has
exp?erienced call for a reduction in production costs to better tolerate
future possible fluctuations. Thus, despite the generally positive
performance of the cotton sector described above, there are three elements
which could significantly increase the cotton sector's overall efficiency
and cost-effectiveness.
25.       First, despite productivity gains in cotton production (para 16),
production increases have been derived to a greater extent from expansion



of the area planted with cotton. More experienced farmers and field trials
show that yields can be increased considerably. Yields now range from 250
to 2,000+ kg seed cotton/ha and the average national yield of about 1,000
kg/ha is diminished by the relatively high proportion of new, inexperienced
growers. The upward trend (para 16) in yield/ha could increase further for
three reasons: (a) the number of new households interested in cotton
growing has reduced considerably as more than half of the country's farmers
already grow cotton; (b) the proposed gradual removal of subsidies on all
production inputs would increase costs considerably, thereby providing a
strong incentive to increase productivity; and (c) a more effective
extension service would help focus on the most critical cultivation themes.
26.       Second, the cost-effectiveness of the cotton sector could be
increased through improvements in marketing and ginning operations. Third,
the present institutional and financial arrangements require modifications
to allow greater responsiveness to world market prices and to provide
incentives for participants to improve efficiency. To effectively bring
about these changes, a coordinated agronomic, institutional and financial
program would be needed to provide the sector's participants with
appropriate incentives to improve their performance. Thus, these three
means of improving the cotton sector's productivity are the proposed Cotton
Sector Development project's main objectives.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
Rationale. Proiect Concept and Obiectives
27.       The pro'ect would build on the strong production and
institutional foundations established by the first two projects to increase
production at a lower cost. IDA, CCCE and FAC have been closely associated
with the sector's performance (paras 5, 20). As part of Government's new
agricultural strategy, the project, through the Societe Togolaise du Coton
(SOTOCO), would continue to provide direct field support to -otton and food
crop farmers for an interim period covering the project's four years, after
which these field services would be phased into national level agricultural
services. Meanwhile, institutional and financial revisions would be made
to give SOTOCO greater integration and control of the sector, thus
improving its overall efficiency and performance.
28.       Although significant room for improvement exists in the sector,
Togo's cotton is considered of the highest quality in the West African
region and its production costs are among the lowest. Because of this, it
has had much shorter deficit periods than several other Francophone cotton
producing countries in West Africa. Nonetheless, given the price forecasts
for cotton over the medium-term lower in real terms than over the past 20
years, Togo must maintain its competitiveness by raising productivity and
cutting production costs. This would be achieved during the project period
by (a) on the agronomic side, emphasizing productivity gains; (b) on the
processing and marketing side, improving the



- 10 -
cost-effectiveness of operations; and (c) on the financial and
institutional side, introducing a pricing policy which is responsive to
world prices and provides greater financial incentives to farmers and
SOTOCO. Additionally, the project would support Government's strategy of
forming viable national level agricultural services, which IDA is assisting
through other project and structural adjustment lending. It is thus
important that IDA continue to support the development of the sector at
this turning point toward a more comercially operated and self-sustaining
industry.
Proiect Description
29.       The project would support, over a four-year period, increased
production of cotton and food crops, the efficiency of the cotton sector's
operations, and incentives to the sector's participants. The project would
be implemented throughout the greater part of Togo and by its conclusion
(1991/92) would reach 168,000 farmers (about 602 of Togo's total). The
three-point program includes:
(a) raising the productivity and production of cotton and food crops
by improving the effectiveness of SOTOCO's support services
including agricultural extension, adaptive research, input
supply, training, monitoring and evaluation, and feeder road
maintenance. Special attention would be given to creating and
supporting new farmers groups, introducing integrated pest
management, and providing selected technical assistance. A
warehouse would be built in Lome to accommodate the increased
production;
(b) increasing the efficiency and cutting the costs of cotton
processing, and primary and export marketing; and
(c) improving the sector's financial arrangements by gradually
eliminating subsidies, changing SOTOCO's operating guidelines so
that it can operate along commercial lines, and implementing a
flexible producer price policy that provides incentives to
farmers and SOTOCO and is responsive to world market prices.
The project combines investment and sector reforms. A matrix of
monitorable actions included in the project is presented on pages 37 and
38.
B.   Detailed ProiecW Features
1.   Aaricultural Productivity and Production Program
30.       The agricultural program's two objectives would be to first,
encourage increased production of cotton and food crops principally through
productivity increases, and second, to put agricultural development on a
more sustainable basis by the continued development and support of village
farmers groups. The incentives proposed for achieving these objectives are
described below. With the exception of the functional literacy program for
farmers groups and the pest scouting program, all services are already



- 11 -
being provided by SOTOCO. The project would improve the efficiency and the
focus of these services.
31.       Agricultural Extension.  Agricultural productivity of both cotton
and food crops would be increased through an extension program focussed on
the cultivation practices identified in the Second Project as critical for
high yields but which are not generally adopted. Extension agents would
provide both cotton and food crop recomendations, moving toward the "whole
farm", rather than a crop-specific approach. For cotton, emphasis would be
given to increasing the level of husbandry/technical skills of farmers
starting to grow cotton, thereby reducing the large percentage achieving
low yields. For more advanced farmers, applying inputs at the optimum time
would be emphasized. New cotton varieties developed by, the Research
Institute IRCT, that are higher yielding, and have a higher ginning
percentage (from 42.22 to 442) would be introduced. Slightly lower, more
economic levels of fertilizer and insecticides, which would not affect
production, would be recommended (para 44). For food crops, extension
themes would be introduced in programmed stages. First, the extension
agent would assess the farmer's requirements; second, improved husbandry
practices (plant density, weeding) would be demonstrated to the farmer, and
third, for those farmers producing marketable surpluses, advice would be
provided on purchased inputs. The project would also continue to promote
the use of animal traction in conjunction with other ongoing animal
traction projects.
32.       For both cotton and food crops, the motivation to increase
productivity would be a higher return per manday, a more acceptable level
of financial risk, and a greater farm income. Generally, higher returns
per manday have proven to be a prime motivating factor for intensification
provided that the financial cost of purchased inputs is about half the
value of incremental production. Project extension recommendations meet
these criteria. For cotton farmers, the motivation to increase
productivity would be provided through incentive producer prices, better
focussed and coordinated research and extension services, and gradual
elimination of subsidies on insecticides. Financial implications for
farmers are discussed in para 77. The Table below gives yield estimates
under the project; further details on the agricultural program are given in
Annex 3 and Working Paper No. 1.



- 12 -
Proiect Yield Estimates (kg/ha) a/
1987/88
Crop)                     Average Yield b/  Stage 1      Stage 2   Stage 3
Cotton -
northern zone c/                970                   1,000-1,180 el
Cotton -
southern zone d/              1,050                   1,090-1,280 e/
Maize                            990           1,000         1,200      2,000
Sorghum                          560             600           850     1,000
Groundnuts                       640             600           800     1.000
Cowpea                           640             600           700     1,000
Paddy rice                     1,140          1,000          1,500     2,200
a/ Stages 1-3 - explained in para 31.
b/ For SOTOCO areas.
c/ Savanes and Kara regions.
d/ Centrale, Plateaux and Maritime regions.
el Progressive average yield improvement from 1,000 kg/ha in PY1 to
1,280 kg/ha in PY4.
33.       The extension methodology presently utilized throughout Togo as
directed under the Government's agricultural strategy (La Nouvelle
Strat4gie), follows the T&V methodology (para 8). The project would
emphasize three aspects of the system which are not being carried out
adequately: (a) improving the extension agents' knowledge of their sectors
and 'gricultural problems; (b) better tailoring of recommendations to
farmers needs; and (c) improving grass roots feedback to subject matter
specialists and research workers. The training program that emphasizes
these aspects is detailed in para 39. Extension staffing is adequate; in
1987/88, SOTOCO had an extension agent to farmers ratio of 1:250 and no
additional extension staff would be hired during the project period. Since
a small proportion of cotton is also grown in non-SOTOCO areas covered by
other projects, the extension recommendations for each cotton-growing area
would be standardized based on periodic meetings held between SOTOCO and
other projects. Subject to a review, and as programmed under the
Government's agricultural strategy (La Nouvelle Strategie), the extension
service and staff would be transferred to the MDR's regional directorates
(DRDR) toward the end of the project, to form a national extension service.
The exact timing cannot be determined at this stage because the plans for
developing national service agencies are presently under preparation. In
general, women's participation is inadequate in the extension services.
The Agricultural Extension Project however, will carry out a
socio-anthropological study beneficial to the project, which would
determine the most appropriate ways to improve women's integration in the
extension service and increase their already important participation in the
development of the agricultural sector. The present project would finance
50Z of the cost of extension services representing the proportion of
activities assigned to food crop development on a declining basis. This



- 13 -
would total CFAF 3 billion (US$10.9 million) and would include vehicle
replacement, operating costs and audio-visual equipment. As is presently
done, the other 50Z of extension costs would be covered by cotton sector
revenues. Further details are presented in Working Paper No. 2.
34.       The applied and adaptive agricultural research program would be
continued: the cotton research program subcontracted to IRCT and the food
crop research program undertaken by SOTOCO itself. Changes to the on-going
programs, detailed in Working Paper No. 2, include: (a) adding more
regionally adapted trials fcr cotton (introducing varieties that are higher
yielding and produce higher ginning percentages, weed and insect control),
and food crops (food crop/cotton farming systems, improved and acceptable
varieties); (b) introducing integrated pest management through an insect
scouting program which could permit the number of sprayings to be reduced,
thus providing savings to farmers (this program recently began); (c)
focussing IRCT agro-economic research unit's work on more operationally
relevant information that can be used by extension and/or -esearch in the
short-term; and (d) improving the modus operandi between the two research
groups so that they can review their work together, from the uwhole farm"
sy£tems point of view. By the conclusion of the proposed project, the
responsibility for research on food crops would have been phased into a
national research service (para 67), to be supported under the proposed
Agricultural Services project (para 8). The costs to be covered by the
project is estimated at CFAF 280 million (US$0.8 million) and would include
inputs, a small research ginnery/textile laboratory for IRCT, and
incremental operating costs.
35.       Farmer Groups.  Groupements Agricoles Villageois (GAV) would
continue to be developed and supported under the project. In the 1987/88
cotton campaign, 221 GAVs will manage 352 (24,000 t seed cotton) of primary
marketing of the national crop. The project's objective would be, by the
end of the project, for GAVs to handle 502 of the crop (about 66,500 t).
The incentive for farmers to associate into groups derives from the
revenues they receive or the discounts they obtain from SOTOCO for services
they provide (primary marketing of cotton, management of cotton spraying,
distribution of inputs etc.), and for the services they receive (technical
assistance and materials). With an average revenue per GAV in 1986 of CFAF
700,000 solely from the primary marketing of cotton, the GAVs have invested
in village infrastructure including cereal mills, maternity units, and
village stores. The project would provide the GAVs with additional support
according to demand, through training programs in functional literacy and
group management, village-level food crop storage and marketing, food crop
input distribution, commercial production of improved varieties of food
crop seeds, and village credit (savings and loans). The village-level food
crop storage marketing assistance would provide farmers with an additional
incentive to associate. By marketing together throughout the year (para
13), they can reduce the need to sell their crops at low, post-harvest
prices as they are often forced to do. The functional literacy program,
which would deal with an important constraint identified by farmers groups,
would cover about 50? of the GAVs. The cost of this component is estimated
at CFAF 546 million (US$2 million) and also includes 6 manmonths of
short-term consultancies to the various GAV programs. Part of the costs,
particularly for the literacy program, viuld be covered by the GAVs.
Working Paper No. 3 details the GAV and literacy program.



- 14 -
36.       Agricultural Inouts.  Fertilizer and pesticides would continue to
be sold to cotton farmers on credit, with the cost being deducted when
farmers sell their seed cotton to SOTOCO. The cost of food crops inputs
would be reduced for those GAVs or farmers purchasing in bulk and/or cash.
As under the Second Project, food crop inputs would continue to be sold
only for cash given the poor record of credit recovery. However, the
possible introduction of savings and loans progrAms within the GAVs (para
35) would allow them to purchase food crop inputs for resale to group
members on credit. Subsidies on fertilizers have been removed; during the
project period they would also be removed on insecticides. The project
would finance the cost of incremental inputs estimated at CFAF 1.316
million (US$4.8 million).
37.       Seed Production.  Cotton breeders and foundation seed would
continue to be produced by IRCT under a contract with SOTOCO as described
in Working Paper No. 2. Higher yielding varieties with higher ginning
per(entages would continue to be developed (para 31). Selected food crop
seeds for the cotton areas were produced by SOTOCO during the Second
Project. During the project, commercial food crop seed production would be
transferred to the GAVs where interest and demand provide justification.
Experienced farmers would be selected and trained to produce commercial
food crop seed. They would receive a premium price for seed of good
quality, which would be cleaned in facilities managed by the GAV and
subsequently sold to GAV members and others (para 35). These seed
production arrangements could change with the proposed Agricultural
Services project which would review the activity nationwide and determine
if changes are necessary. The project would finance the cost of seed
production estimated at CFAF 416 million (US$1.5 million), which includes
inputs, farm equipment and incremental operating costs. Working Paper No.
4 provides further details.
38.       Feeder Road Maintenance.  The maintenance of all-weather roads is
vital if production inputs and harvested seed cotton are to be moved
expeditiously and at minimum cost. The project would finance (CFAF 1.579
million - US$5.7 million) the annual maintenance of 3,000 km of feeder
roads constructed by SOTOCO in the cotton areas during the first two cotton
projects. Funds would also be included for associated minor works on these
roads. During the project, arrangements would be made to transfer
responsibility for road maintenance to relevant government services.
39.       TraininR.  The project would support both the continuation of
in-service and external training for SOTOCO staff and for GAV members. The
training of the SOTOCO staff would be continued in such areas as personnel,
garage and factory management, finance, cotton marketing, use of computers,
adaptive research among others. SOTOCO extension staff training would be
progressively integrated with the DRDR extension staff. It would aim at
updating their technical and communication skills at all levels as well as
increase training in areas of identified weaknesses (para 33). The use of
radio broadcasts for both training purposes and the provision of
agricultural information would be tried. The cost of the training program
(GAV training is costed under the GAV project) is estimated at CFAF 726
million (US$2.6 million). The GAV training program is detailed in Working
Paper No. 3 and SOTOCO's in Working Paper No. 5.



- 15 -
40.       Monitoring and Evaluation).  The existing Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) program would be retained, but would be transferred to a
national M&E service, directed by the Agricultural Extension project (para
8). The change would not affect the M&E work substantially, as most of
SOTOCO's M&E staff will continue to cover SOTOCO areas and SOTOCO's
information needs, within national guidelines to be established once the
Extension Project is effective. The M&E unit would continue to play its
important role of ensuring closer coordination between research and
extension by providing a more effective feedback from farmers. The unit
would also broaden its evaluation program to cover the GAVs. The cost of
the agricultural M&E program, further detailed in Working Paper No. 6, is
CFAF 505 million (US$1.8 million) and includes operating costs, vehicle
replacement and equipment.
41.       Management Support.  SOTOCO's management would be assisted by:
(a) technical assistance including a financial controller, industrial
manager, garage manager and a cotton grader/seller presently working at
OPAT (Annex 4); it is expected that the cotton grader/seller will be
transferred to SOTOCO after the OPAT reorganization (para 47); (b)
short-term consultancies: integrated pest management (para 34), GAV
operations (para 35), a cost-effectiveness review of SOTOCO's operations
(para 66); (c) under retroactive financing, a new management information
system is being added to the existing computer system (para 64); and (d) a
productii-ity program fund to reward employees who identify means of
increasing the cost-effectiveness of operations (para 66). The total cost
of these activities is CFAF 772 million (US$2.8 million).
42.       Cotton Marketing.  By the end of 1989, Togo's present ginning
under capacity will have been corrected with the start-up of the Talo
ginnery, financed by the Second Project, thereby doubling the present
65,000 ton capacity. This would be sufficient to gin the project's
forecast production. In line with the integration of most industrial and
marketing activities under SOTOCO (para 47) and the projected expanding
cotton output, it is expected (para 41) that OPAT's cotton grader would be
transferred to SOTOCO and would also be responsible for managing cotton
fibre storage at Lome. To accommodate the increased output, an additional
cotton warehouse would be built in Lome, along with the grader's
laboratory. Total cost: CFAF 1.220 million (US$4.4 million).
2.   Efficiency Improvements in Cotton Sector Operations
43.       Improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of cotton sector
operations would be the second measure taken by the project to increase
productivity. The basis for these improvements are two studies completed
in mid-1987 (Documents Nos. A.1 and A.4 in the Project File) and the
preparation and appraisal mission findings. SOTOCO's management has taken
a positive attitude toward reform: it has begun implementing some of the
recommendations and would carry out others detailed below during the
project period. Implementing these measures would substantially reduce
Togo's costs of producing cotton.



- 16 -
44.       More effective use of agricultural inRuts would be achieved by
introducing recent IRCT research findings which demonstrate that the
intensity of both fertilizer and pesticide use could be reduced without
depressing yields or quality (Annex 3). As a result, the extension
services will recommend that fertilizer levels be reduced from 200 to 150
kg/ha NPKSB, completed with 50 kg of urea. Insecticides use would be
reduced from the recommendatiun of 18 and 15 litres/ha in the south and
north to 15 and 12 litres respectively. This results in a lowering of
cost/kg seed cotton of CFAF 5.5 or a total of 728 million CFAF by PY4.
Under the pest scouting program (para 34), insecticide use would
undoubtedly be further reduced. This reduction in input use started in
May 1988.
45.       The gradual elimination of insecticide subsidies would begin in
PYl, and subsidies would be eliminated by the end of the project. Farmers
would offset these costs by reducing the amount used (para 44), achieving
yield increases and higher producer prices (para 79). The first 252
reduction in subsidies would be a condition of effectiveness and it was
agreed at negotiations that the rest of the subsidies would be removed by
May 1, 1992 (PY4). Although the cost of insecticides is transferred from
OPAT to the farmer, it implies a savings to the sector because the farmer
now bears the cost which is covered by the producer price. Financial
implications to farmers are given in paras 76 and 77. Cost savings amount
to CFAF 30/kg fibre, or a total of CFAF 2.9 billion in PY4.
46.       Transport costs would be reduced by better utilization of the
existing truck fleet for field collection of seed cotton and delivery to
the ginneries. Twenty five trucks would be sold off and the remaining 60
converted where possible to handle containers so as to increase their
carrying capacity and reduce their turn around times. Transport savings
will also be achteved by the construction of the third ginnery at Talo
which will reduce the present average transport radius from 185 km to 125
km. Privatization of seed cotton transport would be encouraged (transport
of fibre and cotton seed is already privatized) by the sale of redundant
trucks to private operators. Lower support costs from the sale of the
trucks alone would reduce costs/kg fibre by CFAF 1, or a total of CFAF 5
million/year. It was agreed at negotiations that the 25 trucks would be
retired or sold by July 1989.
47.       Export marketing costs would be reduced by changing current
arrangements between SOTOCO and OPAT for the sale of fibre and seed. As
part of OPAT's restructuring under SAL III, a study will be carried out
(terms of reference, Working Paper No. 7) aimed at eliminating export crop
inefficiencies and providing SOTOCO with a closer link with the purchasers
(para 23). New arrangements have been agreed to, in which SOTOCO would
take on several of OPAT's marketing functions, pending the completion of
the above study.  It has been agreed that information would be shared
between SOTOCO and OPAT, storage improved, and cotton sales policy
determined together. These and other new arrangements, and the projected
reductions of OPAT's overhead (Working Paper No. 8), would reduce marketing
costs by CFAF 7.3/kg fibre, for a total of CFAF 471 million/year.



- 17 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these new marketing
arrangements would be effective by December l988 when the reorganization
study carried out under SAL III is completed.
48.       Partial integration of marketing within SOTOCO is underway since
1987 through the sales of cotton seed directly to IOTO, a recently
privatized cotton seed oil mill. The eales agreement eliminates OPAT's
physical intervention as seeds are delivered directly to the plant. The
sale price is aligned to world cotton seed oil prices. Cotton seed will be
transported in bulk rather than in sacks as done currently, thereby
reducing costs further.
49.       Total Cost Reductions.  Togo's production cost of cotton fibre in
1986/87 was CFAF 487/kg f.o.b. Lomb, 1987 prices. With the cost reductions
detailed above and expected increased production yields (para 70), it is
projected that the cost/kg would decrease by PY4 to about CFAF 356/kg
against a forecast world price of CFAF 432/kg. This represents a 27Z
reduction in real terms from pre-project costs, 8? from cost saving
measures, and 17Z from productivity increases. Togo's competitiveness on
the world market would be substantially increased from these reductions and
this would allow increasingly remunerative prices to producers. Another
indicator of this improved financial position is the reduction in SOTOCO's
breakeven point, which would be lowered from 57,000 tons fibre (PYO)
throughput to 17,000 tons (PY4).
3.   Producer Pricing Policy
50.        The introduction of a new producer price policy would be the
third and final measure to improve the incentives and productivity of the
cotton sector under the project. A general agreement has been reached
unde- SAL III to introduce flexible producer pricing of export crops
including cotton, cocoa and coffee (Annex 5, part A). The formula to be
used specifically for cotton would consist of: (a) providing financial
incentives to farmers and SOTOCO to improve their efficiency; (b) giving
farmers priority in revenue distribution; and (c) paying revenues to
Government through corporate taxes. A small, OPAT managed fund to support
floor prices would be established. Further details are given in Annex 5.
51.       Revenue distribution among producers, SOTOCO and Government would
depend on world market prices and would be distributed twice: first, to the
farmer, who is paid a floor price on delivery of seed cotton to SOTOCO; and
secornd, to farmers (a second time), SOTOCO and Government, who would be
paid once most of the cotton fibre has been sold. Claims to gross revenue
from sales would be in the following order:
(a) farmers, who would receive a guaranteed floor price. Currently,
this price is calculated at 95 CFAF/kg seed cotton, sufficient to
cover costs and provide incentives to continue cotton production;
(b) SOTOCO and OPAT to cover 90? of their costs relating to cotton,
including depreciation;
(c) SOTOCO and OPAT to cover u.ae remaining 10? of their costs;



- 18 -
(d) the floor price support fund, which would be replenished as soon
as there is a surplus after a drawing; and
(e) farmers, who would recieve 502 of the balance, and SOTOCO/OPAT
the remainder after paying corporate taxes to Government.
The support fund would be used to cover (a) and (b) costs, if necessary.
When there are insufficient revenues to cover both (c) and (d) the actual
distribution would be decided with the cofinanciers, taking into account
field and financial results. As the system is new and may require
adjustments, it was agreed at negotiations that the above formula could be
modified in agreement with the cofinanciers. The seed cotton floor price
would be announced before the start of the growing season (March) and would
be paid to farmers ou delivery to SOTOCO (November-February). In June of
the following year, once most of the cotton seed and fibre have been sold
and an accurate projection of total revenue can be made, the amounts due to
farmers, the support fund, SOTC-,O, aid Government would be determined
following the above formula. 7V-a f£-or price and supplemental payment
levels paid to farmers would be reviewed annually and, depending on world
market trends, could be moved up c-r down.
52.       According to the sector financial forecasts (para 79), the
existence of the floor price support fund is considered essential up to the
end of PY3. By that time, costs will have been reduced substantially,
leaving more revenues. This greater spread would reduce the risk that
farmers would not be paid the floor price. The continued existence of the
fund, or alternatively, its management by farmers rather than Government
would be reviewed as part of the study to be carried out in PY3 to
determine means of improving SOTOCO's cost-effectiveness and commercial
orientation (para 66). The fund resources would be managed by OPAT, and
held in a commercial bank, along with funds for coffee and cocoa. Accounts
for each would be held separately. However, if and when necessary to
support the floor price, funds collected from producers of one crop could
be provided to support another crop, within the limitations described in
Annex 5, including the donor's approval for use of the fund. Adoption of
this producer pricing policy as described above and detailed in Annex 5,
would be a condition of effectiveness.
53.       The justification for guaranteeing a floor price relates to
Togo's ability to guarantee quality and quantity frca year to year. This
advantage would be lost if there were a disruptive decline in production
levels driven by wide producer price variations. Had there not been a
guaranteed price in 1986/87, producer prices would have dropped to 5
CFAF/kg seed cotton since marketing and processing margins would not have
been reduced. In fact, it is forecast that these new arrangements, which
would replace the barhme system, would translate over the project period
into significant gains for all participants (para 79). With present world
price projections, floor price support fund interventions are not expected
(para 82).



- 19 -
C.   Proiect Cost and Financing
Cost Estimates
54.       The chart below shows the relative financial importance of the
project components with clear emphasis on the agricultural productivity
activities including extension, inputs, training and management: earlier
projects gave greater relative financial importance to project
infrastructure (buildings, ginneries, trucks) which is now mostly in place.
sontamw  (3-     (I.
t mu, own
55.       Total project costs including taxes are estimated at CFAF 10.4
billion (US$37.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of CPAF 5.1
billion (US$18.5 million) or about 492. Taxes amount to CFAF 1.0 billion
(USSM.6 million) or about 102. Project costs are summarized below; totals
may not add due to rounding. A breakdown by project component and type of
expenditure is given in Annex 6 and detailed in Working Paper No. 9.
Summary of Proiect Costs by Component
Foreign  Z of
as X of  Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Total   Cost
CFAF million-----   -----US$ million------  -------   ----
Extension              1,703      959     2,662   6.15      3.46    9.61    36       29.5
Research                  93      138       231   0.34      0.50    0.83    60        2.6
Farmers Groups           422       43       465   1.52      0.15    1.68      9       5.2
Agricultural Inputs      214      861     1,075   0.77      3.11    3.88    80       11.9
Seed Prod. Food crops   175       176       351   0.63      0.64    1.27    50        3.9
Feeder Road Maint.       741      610     1,351   2.68      2.20    4.88    45       15.0
Training                 267      360       627   0.96      1.30    2.26    57        7.0
Monitoring & Eval.       273      170       443   0.98      0.62    1.60    38        4.9
Management Support       257      436       693   0.93      1.57    2.50    63        7.7
Cotton Marketing         425      687     1,112   1.54      2.48    4.01    62       12.3
Base Costs             4,570   4,440      9,010  16.50    16.03   32.53    49    100.0
Physical Cont.           125      186       311   0.45      D.67    1.12    60        3.5
Price Cont.              563      507     1,070   2.03      1.P3    3.86    47       11.9
Total Costs            5,258   5,133    10,391  18.98    18.53   37.51    49    115.4



- 20 -
56.       Base costs are valued as at December l987.  Price contingencies
on foreign costs are based on the Bank's projections of international price
increases (5.6Z for 1988; 5.42 for 1989; 0.3Z for 1990; and OZ for 1991 and
1992). Price contingencies on local costs are based on the Bank's forecast
of local inflalon (GNP deflator 1988-1992, 4Z per annum).  Physical
contingencies vary over a number of items with a project average of about
3?; this low percentage is due to the high percentage of operating costs
with few or no contingencies.
Financing Plan and Arrangements
57.       Financing of project costs net of taxes would be shared in the
following amounts and proportions:
Financing Plan
PercentaRe        USS Million
IDA                             45               15.1
CCCE                            34                11.5
FAC                             10                 3.3
Government of Togo              10                 3.5
Farmers Groups                   1                0.5
Total Net of Taxes             100               33.9
Taxes (Government financed)                       3.6
Total Including Taxes                            37.5
58.       IDA, CCCE and FAC would finance approximately 89Z of project
costs net of taxes, and Government and farmers about 11Z. To facilitate
Government's takeover of financing responsibility for extension services
(para 66) after the project period, 50Z of this component would be financed
by Government from the national budget on an increasing basis: PY1 20Z; PY2
40Z; PY3 50Z; PY4 80Z.  A commitment by Government to allocate a specific
budgetary line to this component would be a condition of effectiveness. A
detailed financing plan is presented in Annex 7.
59.       In order to facilitate the timely implementation of the project:
(a) IDA would finance retroactively the cost of consultants to set up a
computerized management information system for an amount of CFAF 17.2
million (US$62.000 - para 64); (b) Government would establish a project
revolving fund termed Project Special Account, into which IDA would deposit
upon effectiveness an initial amount of US$1.8 million representing itu
share of six months of project financing; and (c) SOTOCO would establish a
Project Account, and in accordance with the annual budget, Government would
deposit into it the next quarters' allocation two months prior to the start



- 21 -
of that quarter. Agreement on (b) and (c) above were obtained at
negotiations. Deposit by Government of an initial amount of CFAF 80
million into the Project Account would be a condition of effectiveness of
the IDA Credit. The fulfilment of the CCCE and FAC conditions of
effectiveness would also be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
60.       The external cofinanciers' loans would be made to Government. The
loan portion relating to the construction of a warehouse at Lome port would
be onlent to SOTOCO on terms and conditions of the commercial banking
sector in Togo. The rest would be provided to SOTOCO as a grant to cover
the costs of the agricultural services it provides to Government for food
crop production. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory
to IDA between Government and SOTOCO would be a condition of effectiveness.
Amounts and Terms of External Cofinanciers Loans
Amount     Loan Period  Grace Period  Interest
(USS Million)  ---------Year------------  (2 p.a.)
IDA          15.1         40            10           0.0   Service Charge
CCCE         11.5         30            10           3.0
FAC           3.3        Grant
Procurement
61.       Goods and services financed under the project would be procured
according to Bank's guidelines except for those financed by CCCE and FAC
which would be tied to goods and services of French origin. Procurement
arrangements are summarized below. Figures in parentheses indicate amounts
to be financed by IDA under various categories.



- 22 -
Procurement Arrangements
(USS Million)
Procurement Method       Total
Procurement Element           ICB        LCB       Other     Costs
Civil Works Buildings          4.04                           4.04
(4.04)                         (4.04)
Equipment                                1.19                 1.19
(1.19)               (1.19)
Vehicles                       2.87                           2.87
T. Assist. & Consultants a/                         3.18      3.18
(0.68)    (0.68)
Local Personnel                                     7.98      7.98
(2.14)    (2.14)
Operating Costs b/                                 13.50     13.50
(2.28)    (2.28)
Agricultural Inputs c/         4.75                           4.75
(4.75)                         (4.75)
11.66      1.19      24.66     37.51
(8.79)    (1.19)     (5.10)   (15.08)
a/ Technical assistance contracts already signed under the ongoing Second
Project to be continued and financed by FAC. Short-term consultancies
would be contracted according to Bank guidelines on the use of
consultants.
bI Includes US$5.7 million of feeder roads maintenance executed under
force account by SOTOCO's existing equipment. Vehicles operating
costs are also included.
cl The procurement of the project's incremental agricultural inputs would
be grouped with SOTOCO's non-incremental requirements where applicable.
62.       Contracts including those for agricultural inputs, valued at
US$200,000 or more, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). These would total about US$8.8 million. For those
contracts for equipment worth less than US$200,000 but more than
US$100,000, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which have been
reviewed by IDA and found generally satisfactory with the following
modifications, would be used: (a) public bid opening sessions would be
held; (b) explicit criteria for bid-evaluation would be made available to
bidders; and (c) foreign firms not established in Togo would be allowed to
participate in the procurement exercises. The equipment category



- 23 -
(US$1.19 million) is to be used by various components, including training,
monitoring and evaluation, marketing, and feeder roads. Thus, because of
the non-compatibility of the equipment, it does not lend itself to large
ICB packages. Contracts for goods and services (e.g., purchases relating
to operating costs) for less than US$100,000 would be awarded through local
shopping.  These would total about US$2.0 million.  Where local shopping
procedures would be used, a minimum of three quotations would be obtained.
Bidding documents and bid evaluation results over US$100,000 would be
submitted to IDA for review. The above was agreed at negotiations. The
feeder roads maintenance program would be executed by SOTOCO's feeder roads
unit whose technical performance has been found satisfactory under the
ongoing Second Project. Adaptive research would continue to be carried out
by IRCT under contract to SOTOCO, and under terms satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursements
63.       As agreed with cofinanciers, disbursements of foreign funds
wherever possible would be on a parallel basis. IDA's credit would be
disbursed over a 6.5 year period corresponding to the IDA's disbursement
profile for Togo (Annex 8). Disbursement requests for investments above
US$100,000, including agricultural inputs and technical assistance
expenditures, would be fully documented. Disbursement of expenditures
whose value is less than US$100,000 would be made against statements of
expenditures (SOE), with documentation being retained for inspection by
supervision missions. Wherever funds from the Special Account (para 59)
are used to prefinance expenditure, disbursement requests would be
supported by the relevant bank account statements. Under the project's
audit requirements (para 64), annual audit reports would incorporate
certification of (a) expenditure claimed under SOEs; and (b) origin and
utilization of IDA-financed goods and services for project purposes.
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount         Z of Exp. to be
Category            USS' 000)  (SDR '000)      Financed
(1)  Civil Works                       3,639     2,629       lOOZ
(2) Equipment for s
(Train., Extension, Marketing   1,067        771      1ooZ
and Monitoring and Evaluation)
(3)  Consultant services                 616       445       lOOZ
(4)  Agricultural Inputs               4,277     3,090       100Z
(5) Cperating costs s
a) Productivity premiums
and pest scouting program        276       200       1ooZ
b) Food Crop extension services  3,700      2,672        80Z in PY1
60Z in PY2
40Z in PY3
20Z in PY4
(6)  Unallocated                       1,508     1.093
Total                         15,083    10,900



- 24 -
Reporting, Accounts and Audits
64.       SOTOCO's existing computer-based accounting and internal control
systems operate according to international standards. Because of
inadequate hardware facilities leading to delays in data production,
upgrading of the computer system is currently underway. This will greatly
enhance the existing data processing capability and the application will be
extended to, among others, industrial and transport operations. The
project would finance technical assistance support to adapt the existing
computerized accounting system to a single integrated industrial and
financial system, thereby facilitating the flow of information to
management and meeting SOTOCO's reporting requirements listed below, which
were agreed at negotiations:
(a) submit to Government for approval and to the Bank for information
annual budgets covering separately its cotton operations and
other operations not later than one month prior to its financial
year's starting date - October 1;
(b) submit to the Bank and Government quarterly progress reports on
both its current operations and project's achievements compared
with appraisal report or otherwise agreed objectives;
(c) maintain appropriate accounting records to enable it to conform
to the project's reporting requirements and sub4ait to the Bank
audited annual accounts including certified opinion on the use of
SOEs, the use of the Project Special Account and IDA funds,
within a period of four months after its financial year closing
date;
(d) submit a Project Completion Report prepared by the M&E Unit
within six months of project completion; and
(e) provide information concerning cotton revenue earned and
distributed according to the new financial arrangements as
detailed in paras 50-53, and Annex 5.
65.       Under SAL II conditions, OPAT's accounts and internal control
systems are submitted to regular annual audits, thus they are considered
adequate for recording the use of the floor price support fund.
D.   Project Management and Implementation
66.       SOTOCO's role would change during the course of the project from
a rural development/cotton agency to a commercially oriented industrial and
marketing company. As part of Government's agricultural strategy (para 8),
agricultural extension, monitoring and evaluation, seed production,
adaptive research, and rural track maintenance services would be handed
over to other national level government services by the end of the project,
and their financing transferred from project specific funding to the
national budget. Seed cotton buying activities would be increasingly taken



- 25 -
over by farmers groups. Integration under SOTOCO of several cotton
marketing activities run by OPAT (para 47) and the foregoing transfer of
responsibilities upstream of the ginneries point toward a more specialized
agro-industrial role for SOTOCO. However, certain changes in its operating
guidelines, financial policies and organizational structure (Annex 9) would
be required if SOTOCO is to operate on a commercial and financially
independent basis:
(a)  including depreciation as charges against revenue and in the
calculation of SOTOCO's financial equilibrium;
(b)  progressively remunerating SOTOCO separately from the national
budget for development services relating to food crop extension,
farmer groups, input delivery, road maintenance, food crop seed
production, and monitoring and evaluation (para 58).  These
activities are presently financed entirely or in part by cotton
sales;
(c) allowing revenue reserves to be created within SOTOCO when the
sector is in surplus (profits) to provide against unforeseen
decline in future revenues (para 79);
(d) providing financial incentives to SOTOCO staff for identifying
and applying cost cutting measures (para 41). Before this
program is implemented, SOTOCO must draw up the conditions or
rules for the award of these incentives to staff, subject to
approval by IDA;
(e) carrying out a study (para 41) by PY3 on the possible means to
increase SOTOCO's efficiency and commercial orientation further
through such possible arrangements as increasing farmers and
other partners (private) involvement in management of the sector;
and
(f) creating an insecticide revolving fund to be seperate from
SOTOCO's general funds.
Where necessary, project funding would be provided to carry out the above
activities (see paragraph references). Agreement on the operating
guidelines would be a condition of effectiveness. It was agreed that a
stady of SOTOCO's cost effectiveness would begin by June 30, 1991, for
completion by December 31 of that year. Lastly, it was agreed that in the
interest of monitoring new fixed investment in cotton processing and
reducing the risk of costly over capacity, Government would not authorize
construction of new ginneries until the 150,000 t annual capacity of the
Notse, Kara and Talo factories had been fully utilized.
67.       Plans are maturing for the transfer of SOTOCO's rural development
activities (paras 33, 34, 37, 38, 40) and SOTOCO would release them as they
are prepared. The project includes four years of funding these services;
thus to support the new national services when they are handed over, the
corresponding funding would also be transferred. Because the transfer
plans are being prepared within the context of national agricultural
services projects, no definitive dates can be given for their transfer, but
Government has declared that it will be carried out before the end of the



- 26 -
project. However. it was agreed at negotiations that the transfer plans
would be submitted to the cofinanciers for approval before they are
implemented a year before the end of the project, and implemented before
the end of the project.
68.       Annual producer price setting and revenue distribution proposals
prepared by SOTOCO would be submitted for approval to a small committee
made up of the Ministers of Plan, Rural Development, and Public
Enterprises. SOTOCO and OPAT would assist as non-voting members. Should
the use of the floor price support fund be warranted, the above proposal
would include the request. The cofinanciers must also give their
no-objection to the use of the fund. Further details and conditionalities
are in Annex 5. Export marketing arrangements would be changed as
described in para 47.
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Production. Markets and Prices
69.       Adoption rates and production.  Projections of adoption rates,
production increases and the rates of intensification achieved for each
crop have been based on analysis by agro-ecological zone, monitoring and
evaluation data collected during the Second Project, and analysis of farmer
incentives proposed under the project. Forecast production increases are
tabulated below and further detailed in Annex 10 and 11 and Working
Paper No. 1.
Proiected Production
Incremental
Crop        Without Project   PY4                      I      as Z of Natl
1987/88      1991192  Incremental  Increase  Production
------------------- (tons) -------------------
Seed Cotton    85,000        133,100     48,100        57          57
Maize          71,500        105,600     34,100        48          26
Sorghum        52,900         78,750     25,850        49          20
Groundnut      11,840         14,210      2,370        20           9
Cowpea         15,360         20,580      5,220        34          23
Rice            2,200          6,320      4,120       187          21
70.       On the agricultural side, the project's principal objective would
be to improve the standard of cotton farming more than to increase the
number of new farmers.  It is expected that the annual increase in the



- 27 _
number of new cotton farmers would slow down to approximately 72 from the
352/year experienced during the past five years, reaching 120,000 farmers
or 501 of Togo's total by PY4. This slow down would be due to greater
pressure on farmers to improve their productivity as their costs of
production would increase substantially with the removal of subsidies on
insecticides. It would become uneconomical for farmers with lower yields
to coratinue to produce cotton (para 75). Despite the fewer new farmers,
cotton production is expected to increase 152/year - well within earlier
average increases of 252/year. Although over 501 of Togo's farmers would
benefit from the project, projected food crop production increases are
conservative due to limited demand (para 13). The exception to this is
rice, as the potential demand for locally produced rice is high as most of
what is consumed is presently imported.
71.       Cotton Market Outlook.  The collapse of world prices (in 1987
constant dollars) from US$2.25/kg c.i.f. European ports in 1984 to
US$1.11/kg in 1986 originated from China's unexpected bumper crop of 6.25
million tons which pushed world stock levels to 9.8 million tons equivalent
to 6.9 months of mill consumption or 532 above what is assumed to be the
supply/demand equilibrium level of 4.5 months. This occurred in spite of a
record consumption level of 16.6 million tons in 1986. The resulting low
prices and poorer yields (-7.62) in 1987 have resulted in a decline in
cotton areas of around 62 and indicate a major liquidation of surplus
stocks to around 7.6 million tons equivalent to 5.3 months cotisumption.
'While prices have recuperated somewhat (US$1.67/kg in November 1987), they
are unlikely to reach levels of the past 20 years and are forecast to
decline in the short-term to US$1.44 in 1989, and increase moderately in
the medium-term to US$2.00 by 1995.
72.       Marketing of Togo's fibre is not expected to constitute a problem
as the incremental production from the project represents less than 0.1Z of
world market supply. Togolese cotton quality is considered among the
highest of the West African franc zone producers. Over 902 of its
production is ranked in the top n-aree grades for color and cleanliness and
almost 1002 for excellent fibre length between 1' 1/16 - 1" 3/32. The mark
down against the world price reference grade (Middling 1" 3/32) is minimal
- between 0.6 to 1.0Z. These good results have been principally due to the
introduction of improved varieties, hand versus machine picking, the
existence of lint cleaners at the ginneries, and expert fibre grading
assistance provided by the French Textile Company, CFDT. An exception to
this high performance has been SOTOCO's insufficient ginning capacity since
1986. The 10,000 tons of seed cotton carried over to 1988 may bring down
quality due to protracted stockage. This problem of under capacity is
being resolved through the completion by 1989 of a new ginnery (para 42)
and by increasing the capacity of two other existing ones under financing
from the Second Project by 1989 with IDA. Because of OPAT's inefficiencies
(para 23) resulting in a lack of supply continuity to traditional
customers, Togolese cotton is at times less valued than other West African
cottons.
73.       Although revenues from cotton seed sales represent less than 4?
of fibre sales, the recent privatization of the Government-owned cotton
seed oil processing mill (IOTO) through sale to CFDT (para 48) will have



- 28 -
two important benefits: (a) elimination of the heavy cost of bagging, port
handling and OPAT overheads which until recently accounted for the thin
margin (1986 and 1987) or loss achieved on these sales; and (b) promotion
of import substitution for local oil consumption. The transfer price
between SOTOCO and IOTO is based on the world market price for cotton seed
oil.
B.   Environmental Impact
74.       The project will make a positive contribution to the development
of a sedentarized farming system through continued support to cotton and
food crop research working together on crop rotations that will both
benefit crop yields and protect the soil. Research has already shown the
beneficial effects to food crop yields of growing food crops after cotton
with minimal additional mineral fertilization of the food crop. Population
pressures are causing a reduction in the length of fallow periods but crop
systems research now underway and to be continued will seek to maintain
fertility of the soil without fallow through optimal rotations of cotton
with cereal crops and legumes. Research results achieved already along
these lines are being extended to farmers in the cotton areas. Research on
cotton pest control based on technical advice from Zimbabwe will seek to
minimize pesticide concentrations used and to avoid the elimination of
beneficial insects. This will be done through the rotation of chemicals
among major chemical groups, the dilution of active ingredients used
with molasses and water, and the scouting of cotton pests. Build up of
resistance in the cotton pests and resultant later need to increase
pesticide concentrations will be avoided following this strategy.
C.   Financial Implications to Farmers. SOTOCO and Government
Farmers
75.       Under the project, cotton farmers would be faced with two new
challenges: first, they would receive, as a minimum, a floor price
(presently CFAF 951kg seed cotton), which is lower than the present
purchase price (CFAF 105/kg). However, this does not appear to present a
problem because the formula also allows cotton farmers to receive higher
prices, depending on world market prices and cotton sector costs of
production. In fact, according to forecasts, farmers would receive between
102 and 125 CFAF/kg in 1987 constant prices over the project period (Annex
5). Second, cotton farmers would experience a 24ZIyear increase in
production costs from the gradual elimination of subsidies on insecticides.
Farm budget analysis at CFAF 95/kg shows this would affect farmers
differently according to their productivity level. Farmers at the lower
end of the yield scale, i.e., less than 800 kg seed cotton/ha, would only
receive an acceptable return to their labor up to the first year's 25Z
subsidy reduction. Thereafter, it would be uneconomical for them to grow
cotton. On the other hand, those producing over 1,000 kg/ha would still
receive an acceptable return to their labor even when the subsidy is
completely removed (PY4). Presently, 66Z of farmers obtain yields below
the PY4 breakeven yield of 1,000 kg/ha.



- 29 -
76,       Thus. there would be substantial pressure on most cotton farmers
to increase their productivity if they wish, as a minimum, to continue to
produce cotton, or to maintain their profitability. The national average
yield for the 1987-/88 season is estimated at about 1,000 kg/ha; therefore
as a whole, it must increase on average 61/year to malntain the same level
of profitability. Over the last ten years, the rate of increase has been
7Z, thus the target is realistic. For these financial reasons, it is
expected that the number of new farmers would be limited, because farmers
starting to grow cotton foi the first time tend to achieve yields below 800
kg/ha, which would become uneconomical with the subsidies removal. The
Table below shows the effect of the subsidy reduction on farmers net
revenue and return/manday, assuming an average 62/year increase in yields.
Costs are in 1987 constant prices and it is assumed that farmers received
CFAF 105/kg seed cotton. In fact, producer prices are forecast to rise
over the project period (para 79), thus the impact on farmers revenues
detailed below would be higher.
Cotton Farmers Returns with Subsidy Removal
PYO      PYl     PY2       PY3       PY4
Subsidy on insecticide (X)          100        75      50        25         0
Input cost to producer (CFAF)   24,000   30,974  36,364   41,753    47,143
Average yield (kg/ha)             1,018    1,057   1,130    1,206       1,256
Labor (mandays/ha)                  125       125     127       130       132
Gross revenue (CFAF 105/kg)    106,890  110,985 118,650  126,630   131,880
Net Revenue (CFAF/ha)            82,890   80,011  82,286   84,877    84,737
Return to labor (CFAF/manday)       663       640     648       653       642
A qualification is necessary here. The term "uneconomic" used above means
that farmers would receive a return/manday below 500 CFAF, the official
wage for unskilled agricultural labor. Iu fact, as cotton is often the
only cash crop, it is quite possible that farmers would be willing to work
for less than this, as has happened in neighboring countries ,.hen subsidies
were removed. Nonetheless, the pressure and the incentive tc increase
productivity would now be much stronger than before.
77.       Food Crop Farmers.  The often limited outlet for food crops
brings into question whether farmers would be willing to increase their
technological level, costs and at times risk to improve productivity.
However, earlier experience has shown (para 12) that low input and risk
recommendations do exist and are being accepted by farmers, often because
they reduce labor input with no, or a positive, impact on yields.
Additionally, a few more intensive and higher r!-ik recommendations are
available and cater to the small but growing number of commercial farmirs
oriented mostly toward marketable surpluses. These recommendations are
detailed in para 31, Annex 3, and Working Paper No. 1 and would be used by
extension services during the project period. Through the analysis of the



- 30 -
whole farm as one system, these food 6crop recommendations were compared
with the cotton recommendations and, in most areas, have been found
compatible. Farmers consider cotton as a complementary rather than a
competitive crop to their food crop. Food crops take priority for
allocation of land and labor but cotton is grown because it provides a
spread of risk given its guaranteed price and market, a beneficial residual
fertilizer for the food crop, and higher returns to labor (para 17). It is
only in the yam-growing areas (Central Region) that cotton is competitive
with the traditional food crop. This is the region c.f lowest cotton
production. A comparative summary of PY4 farm budgets for cotton and food
crops is given below.
Farm Budgets - Final Project Year (1991/92) a/
Cotton      Maize          Sorghum         Groundnuts    Yam
T       I        T      I         T      I      T
Yield kg/ha           1,256   1,000   2,750      600   1,100      600   1,100   10,000
Input Cost (CFAF)    47,143        0  26,806       0   8,008        0  22,360        0
V'IzIC b/                               2.26            2.12             1.82
Net revenuelha       84,737  50,000 110,694  30,000  41,992  27,000  49,640  300,000
Returns CFA/manday      642      SOO     922     300     448      630     969    1,765
a/   No subsidies on inputs.
T - Traditional husbandry.
I = Intensive including use of selected seed and fertilizer.
b/ Value of incremental production: incremental costs. Over 1.7 is
considered acceptable.
It should be noted that although cotton may yield either a lower revenuelha
or per manday at 105 CFi/kg than improved maize, yam or groundnuts, it is
still usually preferred for surplus sales because of the uncertainty of
food crop markets. These relative returns would change once cotton
produce-r prices rise (para 75).
SOTOCO's Financial Performance
78.      Financial results shown below reflect the extent of Government
risk-taking in the sector during the 5-year period preceding the project
which has accumulated into a net loss of CFAF 8.0 billion on a gross income
of CFAF 44.7 billion, or 18X. Despite the worsening situation, Government
was unable to modify the bareme's preset margins, or reduce costs enough to
keep the losses from growing. This was accentuated by the 1986 plunge in
cotton prices and reduced export revenues in CFAF due to exchange rate
movements.



- 31 -
Cotton Sector Past Financial Performance
198314   198415   1985/6    198617   198718 Cumulative
------------(CFAF Million) -------------------
Cotton fibre Tonnage   14.7       34.8     26.4      33.2     31.6    140.7
Sold ('000)           mm=-     m         m         m        m...  ,.  ,,
Gross Income           5,312    9,526    9,647    7,775   12,480   44,740
Net Income
to Government          150    2,429   (3,534)  (6,340)    (704)  (7,999)
_z    mmmmm   0inmw~    w m            m   #1-=  m _
79.       The increases in productivity, the cost reduction and the new
financial arrangements to be introduced under the project, in addition to
modest forecast world price increases, would dramatically change SOTOCO's
and the sector's financial performance. This is shown below in three
summary financial position forecasts. Detailed statements are presented in
Annexes 12. 13 and 14.
A. SOTOCO's Profit and Loss Summary Forecast
PYl      PY2       PY3      PY4
198819   1989190   1990/1   199112   199213
------- (1987 Constant CFAF Million) -------
Cotton fibre Tons
sold ('000)                47.4      47.1     53.1      57.2     61.5
Gross Income              17,124   18,126   21,987   25,349   28,935
Shared as followss
Producer              9,838   11,509   14,038   16,707   18,859
SOTOCO -
Operating costs    7,847    6,370    6,242    5,979    6,307
Profit margin        (818)      (25)   1,284    1,572    2,236
Taxes to Government    257        272      423    1,091    1,533
The financial standing of each participant would improve significantly
under the new arrangements. Revenue to be distributed to farmers would
rise as a percentage of gross income from 57S in 1989 to 65S in 1993, as
net producer revenues are raised successively to CFAF 102, 105, 114, 125
and 132/kg. SOTOCO's costs would decrease over the same period from 462 to
212, as insecticide costs are gradually assumed by farmers. Government
income through taxes would increase sixfold. SOTOCO's net negative income
for the first two years reflects the project's new financial arrangements



- 32 -
whereby full cost recovery is no longer guaranteed. From PY3 onwards
SOTOCO's income would show a substantial annual surplus after financing
fixed assets replacement and debt service. This is reflected in the cash
flow below.
B. SOTOCO's Cash Flow Summary Forecast
1988/9  1989/90  1990/1  1991/2   1992/3
------- CFAF Million current prices -------
Net Cash Flow             (879)      (87)   1,223    1,510    2,174
During the above period SOTOCO would generate sufficient resources to
increase the cover of its debt service 1.1 times in 1989 to 10.2 times in
1993.
80.       SOTOCO's capital structure would steadily improve as the
accumulated deficit of CFAF 1.8 billio4 before the project period is
converted into a small surplus of CFAF 0.2 billion in PY4 and to
CFAF 2.4 billion in the following year. SOTOCO's summarized balance sheet
is shown below:
C.   SOTOCO's Balance Sheet Forecasts
1988/9  1989190   1990/1   1991/2   1992/3
---- (CFAF Billion, 1987 constant prices) ----
CaRital Employed:
Shareholders Funds
and Long-Term Loans       14.5     15.8      1e.9     18.6      20.7
_   ===       =__=D                *
Represented by:
Net Fixed Assets            11.2     11.3      11.3     11.4      11.4
Working Capital              3.3       4.5      5.6       7.2      9.3
81.       The main financial performance indicators for this category of
industry would remain satisfactory: (a) debt/equity ratios would increase
from 1:1 to 1:1.7 reflecting the more than adequate debt service cover in
SOTOCO's cash flow above; (b) the current ratio, reflecting working capital
availability (short-term assets over short-term liabilities) would increase
from 1.3:1 to 2:1 ensuring minimum short-term (and high cost) borrowings.
However, in order to protect SOTOCO from liquidity problems which could
be caused by over distribution of dividends made possible by surplus
revenue from 1991 onwards (para 79), an agreement was reached at
negotiations that Government would cause SOTOCO to maintain a current ratio
of not less than 1.8:1.



- 33 -
Producer Floor Price Support Fund
82.       The fund would be constituted under the project in the first year
to support the producer floor price (para 50). The fund's ceiling would be
set at CFAF 1.0 billion. The initial deposit 'gould come from sector
revenues sapported by project financing and possible parallel financing
from CCCE. Under presently projected prices and costs, the fund's
intervention would not be required. Sensitivity tests do however show that
with a 1OX decline in revenue in PY1 or 2, the sector would be in a deficit
position. Should this happen, forecast revenue surpluses from PY3 onwards
would permit refunding of earlier drawings. As mentioned in paragraph 51,
it is only within the project's first three years, as the cost savings
measures became effective, that the need for the fund is apparent. Should
world prices remain low, requiring multiple drawings from the fund,
producer incentive prices could be reduced, or SOTOCO, as a commercial
enterprise, allowed to borrow. The continued need and/or management of the
fund would be reviewed in PY3 (para 52). The above and the modalities of
the fund's operation are discussed in greater detail in Annex 5. The
creation by Government of the institutional and financial framework for
this fund would be a condition of disbursement of Category 4 (agricultural
inputs).
Government
83.       Government incremental net cashflow (Annex 15) would be positive
over the project period when incremental direct taxes on SOTOCO's profits
would as a whole offset incremental costs from direct share financing of
food crop extension (50Z), seed production costs (10OZ) and project debt
service. During the post project period, annual net cashflow would remain
positive (CFAF 350 million) after lOOZ financing of food crop and cotton
extension costs and debt service (Year 10). If debt service of the first
two projects is added to this project's, Government cash flow would cover
the three projects and still remain positive from Year 5 onwards. Benefits
to Government would also arise from incremental net foreign exchange
earnings from cotton exports or import substitution of cotton seed for o'l
refining and food crops.
D.   Economic Analysis
Overall Benefits
84.       The cotton sector and allied food crop sector make a significant
contribution to the Togolese economy both in terms of export earnings and
employment. Because the cotton sector has operated in a generally
efficient manner, it has increased its production 11-fold in 10 years and
emerged as one of the more competitive producers in the region. This
favorable situation was suddenly changed when world prices dropped in terms
of the CFA Franc, providing Togo with only 33Z of its earningslton exported
compared with the year before. The three-point program to increasing
productivity in the sector would reduce production costs by 27Z, thus



- 34 -
significantly improving even further Togo's already competitive position.
In addition, the participants: 168,000 farmers by project completion (602
of the country's total), SOTOCO's and Government's incomes would be
increased significantly. As most of the country's poor are in the rural
areas (i.e., the farmers) the project would have an important poverty
alleviation impact on a large proportion of the country's population.
Economic Rate of Return
85.       The project's rate of return is high, over 50Z (Annex 16), for
several reasons. On the cost side, most of the significant capital
investments required for a cotton industry (ginneries, lorries, etc.) have
already been made under the two preceding projects.   Thus project costs
include mostly the financing of on-going activities and incremental
operating costs. On the benefit side, there will be a significant increase
in cotton, and to a lesser degree, food crops production utilizing the same
or less, staff and infrastructure. Because of the greater output and the
reduction in costs of operations, the unit costs of production would be
substantially reduced (272).
86.       All base costs have been included in the rate of return
calculation, net of taxes and with physical contingencies included. Such
cost reductions to Government as the elimination of subsidies are not
included since the cost to the economy remains. Costs include capital
replacement for all items including the ginneries and buildings.
Incremental farm labor was valued at CFAF 350/manday, representing the
estimated average opportunity cost of farm labor in Togo. Without project,
benefits are assumed to remain at PYO level as the incremental agricultural
inputs and extension provided by the project are required to increase
production. Economic farmgate prices were calculated for maize and
sorghum, and for cotton, for which transportation and ginning costs were
deducted (Annex 17). For the other crops - cowpeas, groundnuts and rice -
average local market prices minus costs to farmgate were used as the
incremental production is small.
Sensitivity Analysis
87.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out on the economic rate of
return; because it is high, its switching values (decreases in benefits or
increases in costs that would bring the rate of return down to 1OZ, Togo's
estimated opportunity cost of capital) are high: benefits would have to
decrease 40Z or costs increases 652.  If both costs increased and benefits
decreased by 252 each, this would still yield an acceptable rate of return
above 10?.  A two-year delay in the benefit flow gives a rate of return of
22Z.
Risks
88.       The two main project risks would be, first, farmers attempting to
save on inputs costs as subsidies are removed by not using the correct
amount of insecticides. A more effective extension service and a pest
scouting program would provide the information and monitoring necessary to



- 35 -
ensure proper insecticide use at farm level. Experience in neighboring
countries that have eliminated subsidies has shown that farmers understand
the value of insecticide use and do not significantly reduce its use. A
second risk, exogenous to the project but inherent to the industry, is
possible world prices declines. The sector's already competitive position
would be further improved by the expected cost reductionq (27Z) under the
project which would significantly improve Togo's ability to tolerate world
price fluctuations.
V. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
89.       The following was azreed at negotiations:
(a) Government would eliminate cotton insecticide subsidies by May 1,
1992 (PY4) (para 45);
(b) SOTOCO would sell or retire 25 of its primary marketing trucks by
July 1989 (para 46);
(c) SOTOCO and OPAT would implement the conclusions of the OPAT
reorganization study by December 31, 1988 (para 47);
(d) The support fund formula could be modified in agreement with the
cofinanciers (para 51).
(e) Government would establish, with IDA financing, a Project Special
Account which would operate as a revolving fund and SOTOCO would
establish a Project Account (para 59).
(f) The project would procure goods and services using ICB
procedures, and local LCB procedures with modifications
acceptable to IDA (para 62);
(g) SOTOCO would maintain appropriate reporting requirements
satisfactory to IDA (para 64);
(h) Government would submit to the cofinanciers for approval the
plans to transfer SOTOCO's support services to national services
a year before the end of the project, and implement the changes
before the end of the project (para 67);
(i) Government would cause SOTOCO to maintain a financial current
ratio (short-term assets over short-term liabilities) of not less
than 1.8:1 (para 81);
(j) Government would not authorize any increase in its ginning
capacity before the full utilization of the following ginneries,
SOTOCO, Notse, Kara, and Talo has been fully ensured
(para 66); and



- 36 -
(k) To complement new operating procedures, Government would cause
SOTOCO to develop its management information system by December
31, 1988, and establish it by October 31, 1989 (para 64), and
initiate a study of SOTOCO's cost effectiveness by June 30. 1991,
for completion by December 31, 1991 (para 66).
90.       Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Reducing the cotton insecticide subsidy by 25Z (para 45);
(b) adopting and implementing the new producer pricing policy (para
52 and Annex 5);
(c) Government depositing CFAF 80 million in the Project Account
(para 59);
(d) Government fulfilling CCCE and FAC effectiveness conditions
(para 59);
(e)  Government and SOTOCO signing a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to IDA (para 60); and
(f) Government would review SOTOCO's statutes in a manner
satisfactory to IDA, to allow SOTOCO to operate on a commercial
and financially independent basis (para 66).
91.       Condition of Disbursement:   Government creation of the Producer
Floor Price Support Fund's institutional and financial framework would be a
condition of disbursement of Category 4 (Agricultural Inputs) (para 82).
92.       With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for a credit of SDR 10.9 million to the Republic of Togo on standard IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MATRIX OF MONITORABLE ACTIONS
Agency                                                     Current
Activity                Measure to be taken                           Res*onsible                         Deodline                Status/Comments
1.  Incentives                  i)  Export Crop Pricing Policy for
cotton. Includes:
a) adopting new cotton pricing
policy                                Ministry of Plan                                           Tied to SAL III
b)  setting and announcing producer       Ministry of Rural                                          conditionality
floor price                           Development, SOTOCO        Effectiveness
c)  setting up floor price support        Ministry of Plan,          Condition of disbursement
fund and its Board of Trustees        NOR, Lt. State             (agr. inputs)
Enterprises.
d)  a*rement on now export                Ministry of Plan           December 82  1988
marketing sarrngements between
SOTOCO and OPAT (see also 3 li)
ii)     Incentive scheme to SOTOCO staff      SOTOCO                     Effectiveness
- rules to be drown up
iMi)    reduction in subsidies
-   26%                               MOR/SOTOCO                 Effectiveness
-   60, 76, 1i0n                      MDR/SOTOCO                 March 19, 1999, 91, 92
iv) reduction in agriculturol inputs use      SOTOCO                     May 1988                        already implemented
2.  Support Services                Transfer of services to appropriate        MDR                        PYI - PY4                       as plans mature in the
government ogencies                                                                                  context of other
projects being
prepared, services will
be trannforred.
3.  Processing A Export         i)  Retiring/selling 26 trucks                 SOTOCO                     July, 1989                      tied to SAL III
ii) implementing nee expo-t marketing         Ministry of Plan           December 31, 1988               eonditionality
arrangements                              (OPAT/SOTOCO)



Agency                                                    Current
Activity                         Measuro to be taken                Responsible                D-ndllno                       Status/Comsnts
4.  Organization A             i) Ope ong Project Special Account A          Ministry of Finance       effectiveness
Mansagment                     deposit of CFAF'S8  million
II) changos to SOTOCO's operating            Ministry of Plan          effectiveness
guidelines:
- depreciation policy
- funding SOTOCO from national
budget
revenues reservos allowanc
- SOTOOn's current ratio to be
maintained at 1.8:1
ill)    Covernmnt, SOTOCO signing a          Ministry of Plan          effectivenoss
subsidiary loan agrement
iv)     Imploenting monagoomnt               SOTOCO                    October 31, 1989
lnformation systAm
S. Studies                         -  management Information systm          SOTDCO                     D ceber 31, 1983               study already began
study
-   SOTOCO's cost effectiveness          SOTOCO                    December 31, 1991
study                                                                                                              o



- 39 -
Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Supply and Demand of Locally-Produced Foodcrops
CERAL EOUWALEWT
*00
780 -
760
740
720-
700-
es6o
640-
a2o -
520 
Gioo-                            
1982        1963         1984         1965         l"           167
YEAR
o   SUPPLY         +   DEMAND
I/ Source: MDR Direction des Enquetes et Statistiques Agricoles.
Document de Travail du ComitG Technique. Cereal equivalent
for maize, rice, sorghum, groundnuts, cowpeas, yam and
cassava.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators First and Second Rural Development
Projects in Cotton Areas (1977-1986/87)
Area (ha) and Yield (Kg/ha)
Pre-Project    PY5 First Project   Appraisal    PY5 Second Project    Appraisal           Increment
(1977)            (1981/82)                            (1987/887-                     (1977-87/88 )
Farming families growing cotton         19,300              45,116             85               131,983             202            584
Total cotton area (ha)                  11,700              28,224              89               83,507              199            614
Total cotton production (t)              6,700              25,655              88               85,000              193           1169
Intensive maize area (ha) 1/                 0               2,150             75                 1,138               8             (47)
Intensive sorghum area (ha)                  0                 980              19                  946              27              (3)
Intensive groundnut area (ha)                0               1,020             46                 2,150              28             106
Average cotton yield (kg/ha)               620                 887              77                1,018               97             64
Average maize yield (kg/ha)                  -               1,300              72                1,200               71             (8)
Average sorghum yield (kg/ha)                                  900              69                  900              60               0    >
Average grcundnut yield (kg/ha)                                900              90                  900               -             (10)
I/   Definition has varied but for Second Project PY5 "intensive" was use of recommended
husbandry, varieties, fertiliser and phytosanitary protection.
1S
x
N,



- 43 -                Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Agronomic Packages
1.        The agronomic packages extended to farmers for cotton would be the
cultural and input package promoted under the second project, and as revised
from time to time following recommendations from research. Intensification
of food crop production would be encouraged through the phased introduction
of improved cultural techniques and higher yielding varieties supported by
appropriate levels of fertilizer. Detailed crop recommendations are being
used by SOTOCO under the second cotton project and would be updated, as
necessary, during the program.
2.        For cotton, the recommended variety is STAM, a high-yielding
variety locally produced by cotton breeders utilizing BOU as one of the
parents. In 1988, IRCT expects to produce commercial seed of F-264-12
(STAMF), a selection with a yield improvement of 102 and a ginning out-turn
of over 422 with satisfactory fibre characteristics. The current average
national yield of STAM, when seed sowing and weeding are carried out as
recommended, is 1,500 kg/ha with 2,000-2,800 kg/ha being obtained on research
plots. A well-proven fertilizer compound NPKSB (15-25-15-5-1.8) would be
applied at the rate of 150 kg/ha in all areas soon after sowing with a
top-dressing of 50 kg/ha urea (462 N) in all regions except the Maritime
Region where instead of urea, 50kg of K2S04/ha will be added. Recommended
pesticide application has recently been reduced to 5 sprayings (ULV) of a
synthetic binary insecticide (pyrethroid and organophosphoroacaricide)(total
12 1/ha) in the North and 6 sprayings (15 1/ha) in the South. Spray
applications are made every two weeks commencing 5 days after planting.
During the program, further reduction of the quantity of spray chemical used
would be attempted through a pilot pest scouting operation. The principal
themes to be emphasized in the extension program would be date of planting
and density and subsequent weeding. As in the second cotton project, seasonal
credit would be provided to farmers for cotton inputs.
3.        Technical advice would also be provided for the following food
crops: maize, sorghum, groundnuts, cowpea, and paddy. Initially, the maize
variety recommended for the bimodal rainfall areas (Plateaux region) would be
the hybrid NH1 or the composite variety Mexico 80-49, with a yield potential
of 3,000 kg/ha in only 105 days. It is therefore well-suited to a rotation
in which it precedes cotton. In the North, with its lower but longer single
rainfall season, the variety recommended would be the composite La Posta,
with a yield potential of 3,500 kg/ha in 115-125 days. New selection of
streak virus resistant maize will be introduced: Ikenne 81.49SR in the south
EV 83-43SR in the south. The recommended fertilizer in all regions would be
150 kg/ha NPK (15-15-15) at planting, followed by a top-dressing of 50 kg/ha
urea. Selection among the local sorRhum plant population is continuing, the
objentive being to find a high yielding variety with satisfactory grain
quality and a shorter height than traditional. Average yields of current
selections exceed 2,000 kg/ha. Fertilization with 150 kg/ha NPK (15-15-15)
at planting and top-dressing with 50 kg/ha urea is recommended. Seed of two
high yielding aroundnut varieties is available to



Annex 3
-.44 -                    Page 2 of 3
farmers. For the bimodal rainfall areas the variety is TS-32-1 with a
maturity of 90-95 days and a yield potential of 2,000-2,500 kg/ha. For the
unimodal rainfall areas the recommended variety is RMP 12 with a maturity
period of 120-130 days and a yield potential of 2,000-3,000 kg/ha; 150 kg/ha
NPK (15-15-15) fertilizer is recommended together with timely planting at
125,000 plants/ha. The area of rainfed paddv grown in the bas-fonds
(swamtplands) is still very small, but seed of several improved varieties is
now available to farmers with yield potentials of 4,000-6,000 kg/ha and
maturity periods varying from 110 to 140 days. The rate of fertilizer
recommended is, as for other food crops, 150 kg/ha NPK (15-15-15) followed by
50 kg/ha urea. Vita 5 and Vitoco IT81D-985 are now the two recommended
cowpea varieties, both with a maturity period of 75-80 days and yield
potentials of 1,500-2,000 kg/ha.  Fertilizer is recommended at 100 kg/ha NPK
(15-15-15) and 3 sprays (total 9 1/ha) of a synthetic pyrethroid (as used for
cotton) at 10-day intervals from 40 days after planting. Seed of all the
recommended varieties is produced by SOTOCO and successfully used by
increasing numbers of farmers.
4.        Significant residual benefits of fertilizer applied to the cotton
crop have been quantified for the succeeding cereal crop by SOTOCO's
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The residual benefit to maize yield has
varied from 132 in the more fertile Plateaux region to 29Z in the unimodal
rainfall area of the Centrale region. For sorghum the beneficial effect of
residual fertilizer has been quantified as 16Z. Research under the proposed
program will thus incorporate more long-term rotation and farming systems
trials in order that the maximum benefit of purchased inputs can be realized
in addition to the synergistic potential of successive crops.
5.        Increased intensification of food crop production would be
encouraged through the phased introduction of improved cultural techniques at
first, followed by higher yielding varieties supported by appropriate levels
of fertilizer. The first stage would only involve the encouragement and
subsequent demonstration of interest by farmers in receiving technical advice
from the extension service; subsequently their fields would be measured and
their farming systems recorded. At the second stage of intensification,
farmers would learn and experience the benefits of following the principal
cultural extension themes, i.e., timely soil preparation and seed sowing,
sowing in lines at the recommended density, and timely weeding and rotational
practices. At the third stage, after farmers have become accustomed to
following the recommended cultural practices and realized their benefits on
the yield of traditional varieties, improved varieties, appropriate
fertilizer, and for some crops plant protection, would be extended to
farmers. A four-stage succession of intensification had been introduced
under the second cotton project; the return to a three-stage program should
increase motivation for adoption of improved practices by farmers through
greater potential yield differentials between the different stages of
intensification. A further strong motivation for adoption of the proposed
phasing of intensification would derive from the significantly greater
potential returns to family labor.



- 45 -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO                         Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Yield Estimates (kg/ha)
PYO            PY1             PY2              PY3             PY4
1987/88        1988/89         1989/90          1990/91         1991/92
Cotton: Savanes         901            925             1000            1050            1150
Kara          1040           1075             1150            1200             1200
Centrale      1023           1075             1150            1200             1250
P1. Nord      1101           1125             1175            1250             1300
P1. Sud       1027           1075             1150            1250             1300
Average       1018           1057             1130            1206             1256
Maize : Level 0         900           1000             1000            1000            1000
Level 1       1000           1200             1200            1200             1200
Level 2       1200           1800             1800            2000             2000
Sorghum: Level 0        500            600             600              600             600
Level 1       700            850              850             850             850
Level 2       900           1000             1000            1000             1000
Groundnuts: Level 0   600              600             600              600             600
Level 1   650             800             800              800             800
Level 2   900            1000            1100             1100            1100
Cowpea : Level 0        600            600             600              600             600
Level 1       650            700              700             700             700
Level 2       900           1000             1000            1000            1000
Rice :   Level 0       1000           1000            1000             1000            1000
Level 1         -           1500             1500            1500            1500
Level 2      2000           2200             2500            2500            2500



- 47- _
Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Man.         CFAF
Months       Million
(Base Costs)
Industrial Manager SOTOCO               48           172
Financial Manager SOTOCO                48            172
Garage Manager SOTOCO                   48            111
Marketing Manager                       48            111
192           566,



Annex 5
- 49 -                    Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Price Setting for Export Crons
A. General Approach
A.   Preamble
1.        The Government of Togo has adopted a policy of establishing
producer prices for its major export crops, which gives a justifiable
incentive to producers, but which could vary from year to year,
following the tendencies of world commodity markets. Once producers
receive a floor price for their crop, and a number of qualified costs
of primary collection, processing, and marketing are covered, a
formula system would distribute the surplus among the different
participants in the production and marketing chain.
2.        On deciding on the final price paid to farmers, Government
would take into account a number of factors such as:
-    the need of the state Treasury to cover the debt and
amortization of investment in the rural sector;
-    the need to sustain the floor price, at least in the short
term, against rapid changes in market conditions via a Floor
Price Support Fund, even if over time such a floor price
would follow structural changes in the market;
-    the need to avoid unwarranted trans-border trade in export
crops because of significant price differentiels with
neighboring countries; and
-    the need to encourage a diversified production within Togo.
3.        To make its policy operational, Government would apply a
system which would be built on:
-    a floor price which would be established for each crop;
-    estimated costs to be covered in the marketing, handling and
processing chain (qualified costs);
-    estimated requirements to maintain a Floor Price Support
Fund;
-    estimated needs of the public Treasury for funds to cover
debt service incurred for rural investment; and



- so -                     Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
calculation of sharing the surplus among farmers and
operators in the product chain, after the above needs are
met.
Application of the policy to individual crops would have to account
for special characteristics associated with the product and its
processing.
B.   Definitions
4.        The following definitions would be used
(a) Floor Prices: For each crop, a floor price would be
established that would give a minimum return per manday
after accounting for the unsubsidized cost of standard
inputs, equivalent to the minimum daily unskilled labor rate
in rural areas. The floor price would be fixed at a level
that would provide farmers with adequate incentives to
maintain their level of production, rather than bring about
a large supply response. Floor prices would be reviewed
when (i) increases in the unsubsidized portion of input
costs exceeded 20? in any year; and/or (ii) when continued
support from a guarantee fund was not felt to be in the best
interest of the economy (i.e., in case of repeated drawings
on the fund due to drops in world prices or evidence of
unauthorized use of the resources).
(b) Qualified Costs: These would include costs incurred in
primary marketing; treatment, processing or transformation,
and placing crops in CIF position (point of sale).
Admissible cost centers would be agreed for each crop.
Actual costs would be taken from audited statements and/or
surveys of costs, which would be subject to verification.
(c) Treasury Revenue: Revenues needs for the treasury would be
estimated as the cost of debt service on loans in support of
export crop promotion. The treasury would not recover
support made by donors as grants. An annual estimate of
this debt service would be provided by the Treasury, or in
the case of onlending by Government, by the agency receiving
the credit.
(d)  Floor Price Support Fund: A fund would be set up to serve as
a source of finance to help support the floor price and
qualified costs, when sale receipts (see Sales Reference
Price, p. 3) are not sufficient to permit this. Use of the
Fund would indicate that the sustainability of the floor
price should be examined. Rules governing the operation and
management of the Fund would be registered under official
statutes governing non-profit organizations. The Fund would



- 51 -                     Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
maintain an account of movements for each crop floor price
supported so that inter-crop compensation could be
monitored.
(e) Sales Reference Prices Average CIF realized prices based on
delivery documents. Cost of freight, insurance and
inspection would be included in qualified costs.
(f) Surpl"s Distribution Formula: This provides for measures to
distribute the surplus sales revenues (i.e., reference
price, less floor price and qualified costs) for each crop,
accounting for the crop's specific institutional
arrangements. Proposals for each agency would be reviewed
by the price policy's Board of Trustees (See section C,
below).
C.   Management of the System
5.        Management of price policy and its application through the
floor price and its Floor Price Support Fund would be entrusted to a
Board of Trustees comprising the Ministers of Plan and Mines, Rural
Development, Industry and State Enterprises. The Board would be
supported by a small secretariat in OPAT whose functions would include
(a) if the criteria described in section B(a) are met, review of
the floor price level;
(b) annual review of qualified costs, supported by evidence,
from marketing and processing agencies via certified
accounts;
(c) review of the debt service requirements for investments in
cooperation with the Treasury;
(d) keeping of the accounts of the Fund and provision for their
annual audit; and
(e) review export implications of the pricing decisions.
6.        The Board would announce floor prices as early as possible
in the agricultural year, preferably before May in the case of cotton,
and before October for coffee and cocoa. Payment of at least the
floor price would occur during the marketing season (November through
February).
7.        Calculation of the amounts to be distributed under the
surplus distribution formula would occur before October of each year,
based on cost and export sale conditions known at the time. Amounts
of the second payments would be announced and distributed during the
next marketing season. Day-to-day management of this aspect of the
system would be the responsibility of each crop agency.



- 52 -                      Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
Part II - Application of the System to Cotton Pricing
8.        The system would be applied to cotton pricing with the
following provisions, but according to results, Government or
co-financiers could propose that changes be made to the system.
(a) Floor Price. This would follow the guidelines for
determiining a floor price as defined in para. II (a). The
floor price of seed cotton has been tentatively set at CFAF
95/kg.
(b) Qualified Costs. For SOTOCOs subsidies paid on inputs,
costs of primary marketing of seed cotton, transport of
cotton lint from ginneries to warehouses in the port of
Lome, ginning costs, administrative costs, financial charges
including short- and long-term interest on loans (including
loan from Government awarded under credit agreements with
external cofinanciers that are apportioned to cotton
production), turnover taxes of 1.5Z (IMF) and contribution
to the National Investment Fund 0.5Z (FNI), and Depreciation
For OPAT: marketing, administrative and financial costs.
(c) Treasury Revenue. The Treasury would receive SOTOCO's
payments of taxes (IMF or project taxes as applicable and
FNI), and debt service payments for loans made under
donor-financed projects.
(d)  Drawings/Cont.ribution to the Floor Price Support Fund:
Ci) The Fund's ceiling would be set at CFAF 1.0 billion
for cotton;
(ii) the initial deposit to the fund would be made from
sector revenues which would be supported by IDA's
insecticide financing under the proposed Cotton Sector
Development Program and CCCE parallel financing.
(iii) drawings from the fund would be made under the
recommendation of the agency, authorized by the Fund
Trustees and executed by the Trustees Secretariat;
cofinanciers no-objection would also be required; and
(iv) replenishments would be made when necessary to repay
earlier drawings.
As the sector's costs are reduced during the proposed Cotton Sector
Development Project's period, the use of the Fund for cotton is
forecast to become increasingly unlikely. In the Project's third
year, the future existence of the fund, or alternatively its
management by farmers, would be reviewed.
(i)   producers would be paid the floor price;



- 53 -              ~~~Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
(ii)  SOTOCO and OPAT would receive 90Z of their qualified
costs;
(iii) SOTOCO and OPAT then receive 102 of their qualified
costs;
(iv)  replenishments of the floor price support fund would
then be made as necessary;
(v)   a payment would be reserved (in an accounting sense
later paid and as part of the final payment) to pay
farmers an "incentive price".  The incentive price is
that which would promote rapid growth in production
(whereas the floor price would maintain production).
The incentive price is believed today to be CFAF
105/kg. SOTOCO may recommend, as a matter of its
financial policy, that the incentive prices be raised;
(v)   SOTOCO would then be awarded its depreciation costs;
(vi)  502 of before-tax-surplus would be payable to farmers;
and
(vii) SOTOCO and OPAT would then pay corporate profit taxes
and either retain or distribute after-tax profits to
shareholders.
Note:     Distribution to Revenues:   Total cotton revenues include
the realized CIF equivalent value of the fibre and cotton
seed. The cotton seed value would be determined from the
transfer price to IOTO for the unexported part and from the
same elements involved in the fibre price for the exported
part.



- 54 -
AN5     5
REPUBIC Of TOO                                   Appendix 1 of 2
COTTON SECTOR DNVELWPENT PROJECT
Cotton RWevnue Distribution
19#7/11U  1963/SI   19#9/91   1990/91   1991/92  1992 90
Ai  COTTON FIBRE SOLD (Tome)                             29,#626  856,069.6  47,182.6  58,164.0  67,244.0 61,68380
Fibre World Price fOB (CFAF/kg)                      406.      8116.6    876.S     464.6    482.J    469.0
CFAF tliIIon 1967 contoant priee-
S)  TOTAL REVENWE Cotton Fibre & Seed Sales                        12,674.0  13,126.0  21,907.0 25,849.0 26,935.6
Inoeetcidee - Co-tinanclere                                 1,666.6
C)  DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS. 1/
(1) PRODUCER:
Income at Floor Price of 95 CFAF/kg seed cotton         7,678.6  16,418.6  11,743.6  12,643.0  18,695.6
Inco_m from Final Pavent                                    6.J      68.   1,466.6  8,208.6  4,882.0
Total Producer Ineome _.0  7,076.0 16,601    18,6                               6 15,651.0  17,927.0
Totel Producer Income _5.6 0                                     16.      116.6    119.6    125.6
SOTOCO/OPAT
Qualitied Coets * DtDes                                      6,65.6  5,683.6  6,35.0  6,665.0  6,6e6.
Floor Price Support Fund tnitiel Contribution                1,666.0       O.6       6.6 O.60   0.
qualiftid Cost at 16X                                            6.0    065.O    651.0    629.0    668.0
Profits Share                                                    6.O      54.6   1,1206.   1,922.0  2,660.6
Total SOTOCO Income                                O.O  7,;..6 O    ,516.6   7,n62.6   8,216.6  9,276.0
(3) GOVERNMENT:
Texes                                                          204.6    se5.6  1,677.6   1,661.6  2,166.6
(4) FLOOR PRICE SUPPORT FUND BALANCE (End of Year)                     6.0   1,66.6  1,066.6  1,666.   1,666.6
1/  Distribution would be mkde In the following order:
PRODUCER       Floor Price
SOTOCO/OPAT    qualIf ed at 901
PRODUCER       Profits Shore S6O
FUND           If there have been earlier drawings
SOTOCO         Qualified Costs at 16t
COVERNMENT     Taxes
SOTOCO         Profito Shore balance after taxe
B:\TABANX6.WK1
LOTUS\UFD\  TOC-08



- 55 -                      Annex 5
Appendix 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Floor Price Calculation - Cotton
Pyo  1987/88                         CFAF
Input price (producer) 1/      24000
Labor (125 md at 500)          62000
Cost                           86500
Av. yield 1018 kg/ha
Floor price (Input costs + 10%)          93.47 CFAF/kg
PY4  1991/92
Input price (producer) 2I      47143
Labor (140 md at 500)          70000
Cost                          117143
Av. yied 1256 kg/ha
Floor price (Input costs + 10%)         102.59 CFAP/kg
_/   100% insecticide subsidy
2/ No agricultural input subsidies
Sensitivity Tests on Stabilization Fund
PYl     PY2    PY3    PY4   Year 5
A.   CIF Price decreased by 10%
(US ct/kg)                     130     136    145    154    163
Fund Support/(Pay Back)       1.24    0.15  (1.39)      -      -
Producer Price (CFA/kg)         95      95    104    107    119
B.   CIF Price decreased by 15%
(US ct/kg)                     122     129    137    146    154
Fund Support/(Pay Back)       2.15    1.10  (1.30) (1.95)      -
Producer Price (CFAF/kg)        95      95      95    103    105



_ 57 -
'.EPUBLIC OF TOGO                                            Annex ,
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJ2<CT
Project Costs by Component and Type of Exp.enditure
IKT Ii
:989      8 1990    '98      04Z       OTAL    'AIES       AIES
......- --------------------------------------tF  ----- ----- ------------CA
ElTEESION SERv:CUS
Vehicles                                5054863         O         0   112440   o77303   19U416   420885
Office Equtawnt                           80067         0         0    90072   L10136           0   170138
Pers.00a                                3412-8   -54088   299186    a2t7B  8449220   262309  1111911
00Dr4tinq Costs                         189902   184848   1v172   170L    '34181                4   734181
...-  -    _. ----    -   __ -- -   -------   ... --. -    _.   ._ ...    . _ -.
1175470   5:9736   5:9918   76471P  303084d2   4*8727  2172115
RESEARCH
Construction                              23215   102u11d3                  d   1272;9         0   1127238
Vehicles                                   493          *         0 949!                               %48
,##ice Ossio.ent                              !                                       8 1
Persoou II.'lts    Il8O                                       14410    14982    56560       4763    5t'85
operating Costs                           ;5885    1599"     1686    1*029    .4439            o    *4439
T. Assistosce                             657'      0654    6o58        ooo      260850        0    26850
59498  128526    37353    :8212   280040          6069   273971
FARRERS iROUPS
Yo@9in                                   I 15t7         j         0     2:t0     1363           7    13637
P rscnn. 1                                1183    15790    !o420    I-ASO    o4482        1107 Ot    2875
2eauni.s 3ni,ons                        tQ"!5      o747    ibW49    ;5'$4   4436                   ± !4399Q
. assistanc                              5907      5988      6093        98 o t 24165         0    241U
143212   128725   137570   140793   546300    11607   534663
COTTOti PttMOOCTION
..4rz:uttural inoUtS                   4*72i9   28837   ;9c905   It502  1;16252                1  ;;o6252
057209   368067   286905   183502  186l252             1  8216252
FOOOCROP P8O98jC! 778
V0 lc8                                    8806          0         0        Q      88106     2351      3755
Office Esutoant                                         0         0         0         0           d      i
Personnel                                36777    28248    39792    41173   156190          82170   127920
Operating Costs                          51729    57882    68394    7i33    252039          a920   243118
96612    9613;    1089506   ::':0    4*t;"       294 '4      79!
;licloIs                                 1 829         0         0    14238    2B087           0      88087
Equipeent                                oSOlI          0         0        o    s3011         6      30i11
Pursoiol                                      0         0        0         0         0         0         ')
acoratins Costs                         :506o9   1-5915   118513   121423   634528         SWIvS   bO.O3
333559   1-5918    1885i1   1.5083   73S620    l1088   694602
ROAD MAINiTENANCE
Personnel                                5 llo    '4Q90    'O291    38.   "209a8   ;'764   131045
Operatin. Costs                         2:4118   ;: 9       44408    55$7    2258224   :58O0   I1t0vc5
_- --     -- - -   . ......  ------     ------   ------    .------- .
'7ol:'    280      49009'9   418405  1579172   :9n':  1814O1
MON1TORING * EVALUATION1
vehicles                                4*6o33          0         a        Q     43633         Q    4*6-;
Etuso  nt                                I3690          0     :;6t         0     1 6049        0    1,049
Ptso.oel                                 e107    64279    osa74    69530   262491    47248   283242
Oporatlnq Costs                          iSi0 :    4*333     02i24    -o208    88334 o         1   882540
;;42;2    8 a9938  815039  11811   504739    47424    457491
PAtiOtECI SIPPOIt
viiclws                                       0    15171         0         0    15175          Q    15873
StuIiss 6 Audits                         98971    ;:lS5      259'.0    ::48:   18959           0   169559
Tchni6cal Asuist,nc.                    124673   120120   128089   8i0059   508940    91609   417331
Ooafti'nq Cost,                           9389      Q442      9:S9      9634    38005          v    38005
ProdUotl,111 PretuuOd 5000                     5         Oo0 5000  500Q    70000         V       060iO
2B8023   887891   168578   1771'5  '71677         91609   60v68
COTTON MARKETING
Constructioa                            992.27         u         J         o 992tl7            v   99:t:'
Vehicles                                      J     3i8          0                '0 5058             5 58
ECuiosnlt                                79                      a         0    '273           v      q9
t. Assistance                            2,98!    21'3        8:254    :1734   1'0744    227   108418
Operat.nq Costs                           "ISO 3     14       t880         8     82.t6         u    1:.68
2ullt."      8978    *4431    .49S46  822030       2:32   1198058
PROJECT COSIS  (EFAF soub         4*64:'4  7152308  195404U   2820838 10;91!57  100'591°  Q38437
ROC       :.   .. .-=   .  .....    I......        . .. ..  ,  . .8  .    ......LOS
PROWTC C0SIS  US I IlULIO |         ;S o'      '..       '-b        .5     ;7.51        :;      ;98



- 59 -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO                                                         Annex 7
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
bitFtlldi firatitsng Pl&P
-- -- --->ltIi" tiz1t aS}-,-........................... Xl
Sn,,       ugh   I.       gLg  *.         An,   ................        .    ....
(ITISON $t09IWIRVgoal
VeIhicles903  *0                                                                                                            10
Office 14vioslt                                    170150                                                                        0
f2trzttetati                                       9au    l0o                                                59S42o   S01  2?1(1
erit*f  Costs                                      347090   31                                               14790i  531         0
.......  .......                                                     ......  ... ...... ........... ..
230324?  115lS6B   44i  4893t5  Ir7.                                 900540  571  453727
4or,ttnctior.                                      127233  l000                                                                  0
VahirltI                                                            1048 1ot2                                                 0303
office (timpa,eut                                                       0                                                        0
stertonre1                                                         SIMN5 10020*'
Operatiig toits                                                    4422i  69?   20213  St2                                       r
1, 0f,I,t.,ce                                                                    2 o6330 lC.?                                   0
..... . *   . .....  ......        .....                        ........  .... ....      
2R0040   927239   4*2   99630  lIC.   4?0F*1                                        06069
Vettic*X                                                           137  1092                                                     0
F9ron,n1l                                                          573tol lOOt60?
Ireioua'q 6tis*p                                                                 31*D94  710  It24Q   302                        0
1. fr0«iItintm l                                                                  7l423  0002                                    0
... . _._ .........      ......_.... ........  .......                             ........ .......
40300               02    13*12  12?  33520*  031  *mo  25?                         01007
0011080600201208
AgUoI4vgI*vplU*i  314232  200
13* 12 3*42112                                                                      I
Vo*iCIN                                                             5713 1001                                                 233*
ltoit   Eitipntol                                                                                                                O
Pa'saoreen                                                        *27920 *00?                                                2e2;0
09'cr~~~t1og Caits                  24~~~1*2  001                                                              8920
_ .. .....  .......      .........
41*033    24311*   6351  *1346   353                                                31141
730*1103~~~~~~~~6311101 
VtMoIn                                                            234l07 If!N3                                                  0
fl7crating Costi                                                  6915t3 *002                                                3*0,
.......            ......                                      .... ...      ....
WC342     0301 I    'i  431302  9*                                                 3*60.0
PlC.! iI°YAIIi '0514i0 l0 'ltle
1'Of'.(isq ta0li                               *290251 0"?~~too                                           0250(
f~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~191                                  * Jl  94I P1   101                                         79I 7t1 7i 
9UhlBI'j10; t$I OAIIIA7UAbA                                                                                                  z
_  __.  ....  .... _..   _    ...                                   .... _..      .......
V.>,Tl.~~~~~~~~~~~3.3 *001. IG'
Lq.acuI9.*64                                                  21*   2 2 IO708
05titatinr tost?                                                  IE375*  *00?                                                   Q
504739    10049    42  441441   6                                                   47243
41:01s                                                             IGM 0.1073    S      l   k                                    0
StuMs 4 Puiits                                     *0939  *OEt                                                                   0
It?c6rltl fAssistriet                                                           4*933? toot 9lf0
Ope rating 10.t.                                                   3300 SM
P'rrc4tivity Praju4s                                20*00  10*1
.... ..  . ......       . .....       . ......        .        .. ..... .         ... ...... 
E11477   2039    3II   4U17f    7t 42233*  on                                      91tO'
C,.truactoit                                       924S7  10?%                                                                   0
Vhiti9e                                                                 t 0C1    50B   lOOt                                     0
f4uipatat                                           79273  lolu t
1.   lst                                                                         1054*1  0002                               22327
Optrating tests                                                    123 *0im                                                      0
.. ._........... ...  ........   . ....  . ......            ..... ....... _
122030D  *t0i3O   OF    12hw i t 11223474   91t                                      7377
.......  ....... .   .......           ........  ...... ..... ....... ..... .................
POJECT 0(01 (04Wr 0001           10391137  4177823   4fl 3194020  34V  921018149   Ot   310             9004         1003919
tttIJ&CI CQIlS (US I 0*Lto.i2     37.3      15-03   t57  1145  54   4      53.,11   02    v40   it    3.411 47  1       .tS



- 61 -
Annex 8
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US' 000)
______-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IDA                  Appraisal Report               Profile            Estimate Profile
Fiscal Year              ----------------         --- -----------                       X
A Semester               Semester  Cumul.         Semester   Cumul.          Trend   Trend
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
FY89        2nd       1,800.0  1,800.0             161.0      151.0        12X       1X
FY90        lst         500.0  3,157.0           1,367.0   1,608.0         21X      10%
2nd      1,859.0  4,818.0           1,659.0   3,167.0         32X      21X
FY91        lot       1,508.0  6,325.0           1,508.0   4,676.0         42X      a1X
2nd      1,608.0  7,833.0           1,508.0   6,184.0         62%      41%
FY92        1st       1,608.0  9,341.0           1,508.0   7,692.0         82X      s1X
2nd      1,508.0  10,849.0          1,508.0   9,200.0         72X      s1%
FY93        lot       1,357.0 12,207.0           1,367.0  10,558.0         81%      70%
2nd      1,367.0 13,564.0           1,367.0  11,916.0         90%      79X
FY94        1st       1,056.0  14,620.0          1,058.0  12,971.0         97%      88%
2nd        226.0 14,846.0           1,659.0  14,630.0         98%      97X
FY95        lot         238.0  16,082.0            452.0  16,082.0        100X    100%
Disbursement Curve
11.-i~~~~~~~~13
gi
U2  7-.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~17                              3             A     9
35~~~~~~Fsa Year
'-E - I                       7                 +                                t
S4                 /       .
5 -,,    r'   .V
.1w-
e>9   e:r       i9 s           SX 7                        q?     93
Fiscal Year
-' Estimate                  + Profile



REPUBUC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DELOPMENT PROGRAM
SOTOCO O0nigrn
I-… -                                                                                   w
Outside ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      C n    I 
ReMsc-1 hMor4w-2
l soC     _& k              k ach Menatl&  iAtrince
Res9ech         Agkftl             &Se9d            Evkm             & Personnl       Accounft           bdustbb          Mo*t
ASe:the                                                         RsmAmm
OxCn~~~SwAdufo                   .n
swi
Voameo Gcoups
ON cullvatcn
Agsic Iputs
Wb1d Bw*-41d461



Annex 10
REPIIiTLI(. 01( TO(0
COT'TIN S l.AOR 1)1 IVPA iSMl1 'J1 1F1,O( F
Region           Pre-Project               _              With Project 
PYO             PYl             PY2             PY3              PY4
87/88           88/89           819/90          90/91            91/92
Savanes
area (ha)        14542            1305(}          1)O0            15500           16000
yield (kg/ha)      901              92z5           ' 000           1050            1150
production (t)  13100             1387ff          15500           16275           18400
Kara
area (ha)        13585            14300           16000           16000           16000
yield (kg/ha)    1040              107r5           1150            1200            1200
production (t)  14100            15372            18400           19200           19200
Centrale
area (ha)         7821            9000            11000           13000           14000
yield (kg/ha)    1023              1075            1150            1200            1250
production (t)   8000             9675            12650           15600           17500
P1. Nord
area (ha)        12258           14000            16300           19000           20000
yield (kg/ha)    1101              1125            1175            1250            1300
production (t)  13500            15750            19400           23750           26000
P1. Sud
area (ha)        35331           37000            38000           39000           40000
yield (kg/ha)    1027              1075            1150            1250            1300
production (t)  36300            39775            43700           48750           52000
Total
area             83507           89300            97000          102500          106000
yield (kg/ha)    1018              1057            1130            1206            1256
production (t)  85000            94347           109650          123575          133100
Growth rate (%)
Area             35.69            6.94             8.62            4.06            3.41
Production        7.50            11 00           16.22            8.68            7.71
Yield           (20.8)            3.9              6.9             6.7             4.1
Average growth rate
Area            27%       (6.7%/year)
Production      56%      (14%/year)
Productivity   23%        (5.8%/year)



- 67 -
Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF T7GO                                     Pag0e 0    of  2
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT
Incresental Foodcrop Pfoduction Esti2ates
------ Pre-Project ----        ------With Project…-----
Crop dnd Technical level           PY-2      PY-l       PYO       PYI       PY2       PY3       PY4
1985/86  1996/87  19P7,18   1980/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991192
MAIZE
Levei 0
A-ea(ha                          233472    30617    26190    27009    29000    31000    33000
Yielid(Ikha                        650      1188       900      1000      1000      1000      1000
Productiornit'                   21627    36373    23571    2700         29000    31000    33000
Level 1
Area(ha)                         22534    26834    13727    25000    20000    30000    33000
Yiell(kq/ha)                      1200      1240      1000o     1200      1200      1200,    1200
P-oductionl,t)                   2704!    33274    13727    30000    33600    36000    39600
Level 21
Area{had                          6206      9646    10727    110O0    11000    124000    12000
Yieldfig/ba:                      1250      2221      1200      1750      2250      2500      2750
Production (et)                   7758    21424    12872    19250    24750    30000    33000
Total haize Area!hai                62012    67097    50644    63000    68000    73000    78000
Total Maize Production (at)         56425    91071    7150')    76250    87350    97000   105600
Near yield fkc/ha)                    910      1357      1412      1210      1285      1329      1354
SORSHUM/MILLET
Level 0
Area(ha)                         80290    57883    70441    65000    65000    65000    65000
Yield(kg/ha)                       595       596       500       600       600       600       600
Production(ot)                   4777;    34614    35221    39000    39000    39000    39000
u evel I
Arca(ha)                          8522    11774       8533    100i)0    12000    15000    17000
field(iq/ha)                       675       791       700       850       850       850       95O
P-oduction (t)                    5752      9313      5973      8500    10200    12750    14450
Level 2
Areaitha:                         5129      8165    13016    15000    17500    20000    23000
Vieid(kglhal                       90       i?72       900      1000      1000      1100      1100
Production(st)                    4616      7936    11709    15000    17500    22000    25300
Total area 'ha'                     93941    77822    91984    90000    94500   100000   105000
Total proouCt:or  agt)              59141    51863    52903    6S500    66700    73750    18750
Fean yield 0.clhal                    619       666       575       694       706       73E       750
6ROUNDNUT3
Level i
Area(ha)                         16715    1809    13232    12800    12700    1310    13500
Yielet¢kg/ha)                      612       600       600       600       600O      600       600
PFoduction(4t)                   10230    10805       7939  .  76EO       7620      7860      8100
Level I
A'ea'ia)                          2018      3096      3021      3500      4000      4000      4200
Yield!khoha)                       669       650       650       800       800       BOO       9oo
Productiontat)                    1350      2012      1964      2800      3200      3200      3360
-evel 2
Area,ha)                          2199      3726      2i50      2200      2300      2400      2500
YLeldlkg/ha)                       900       950       900      I000      1100      1100      1100
Productionlat)                    1979      3540      1935      2200      2530      2640      2750
Total aea (ha)                      20932    24831    18403    18501    1900C         19500    20200
notai production (at)               13559    16i57      11838    12686    !3350    13700    14210
Meani Yield ~Kqiha)                   648       659       643       685       703       703       703



(,,                                         Annex  11
Page  2  of  2
!-PIJ 1.'( 1, T  TOG(;
CO)T I'()N  (. TI\                         PR)U\ )0Ji1ZN  1  O.JEC1
ruoQ!7rap Pr AlInc;A'¢ rf>tatOW
_ _ __'f'tA-'l                    ;        U}> - … - iiith Project----
Crop and Tecnnical level             PY-?      rl 1        i        FYI      Fp2        F 3        PY4
'1.',; 9:.s;aS   1r35 iul      1~l9J87 !98,98 17r960I /     1991192
C0PEAS
Level 0
Area(ha)                          16714      l2,6u3    105       1;00       19i500    19300    19300
Yield(kg/ha)                         A!        610 970   (0i)      600        600       600       600
Production(at)                     &666      hl9416    1152I     11400      11700     11590     11580
Level I
Area(hea)                          e02        -76       1`7 4     25fl       3000      4000      5000
Yield(kg/ha)                        500       6tQ        650       700        700       700       700
Production(et)                     If4t 00b            .1283      1750       2100      2900      3500
Level 2
Area(ha)               9                   1         55  28,.3   S500        4500      5000      5500
Yieldlkg/ha)                        K20        900       ,Qn    iOO         1000      1000      1000
Production(at)                     2120      312M      2515)     3500       4500      5000      5500
Total area (ha)                      21306    26534       24022    25000    27000    2,300    29800
Total production (et)                  9555     16442     15365     16650      18300     19380    20590
wean yield (kg/ha)                       (3       620       640        666       678       c&5        691
RICE
Level 0
Area(ha)                           214        157       1071      3000      3-500      3750      4000
Yield(kg/ha)                       i(100       7        iu G (P0 1000        100       1000      1000
Production( t)                                I '1P.0   1671      :G 0 o     3500      3750      4000
Level I
Area (ha)                                                          2?0        400       600       Goo
Yield(kg/ha)                                                      1500       1500      i5OO      1500
Production(et)                                                     375        600       900       1200
Level 2
Area(ha)                                        20       2 5       2A5        *50       400        450
Yield(ko/ha)                                  17 0      200       2200 2'50G0          'L5 ,^0S0  2500
Production(0t)                                  *        5  6A7               975      1O0O       1125
Total area (ha)                        2147      17qB       1.o .      535      4250      4750       5250
Total production (st)                  21-       1 ,:2 I3     4002              4975      5650       6325
ean yield (tg/ha)                      Hon       765       l7        1132      1171       1169      1205
Notes:
1985MU6 to 1987188 Level 2 and 3 aUalLaWted 'n uve Lese) 2
1926/87 maize yields average for CentrMc nP  Plateuwx rew3as
i9e6/87 sarghuo yields average for Kard regior
1987/88 all average yields  and productiorl data SOUTO,i ezieates



- 69 -
Annex 12
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR. DEVELOPEENT PflOJECT
SC'OCO's Profit and Loss Account Forecast
For 'ears end;n3 Septe@ber 30
,411ion CFA,Fs
Actual    Actual     Prov-      -------------- - -Estimated-----------
CONSTANT 1987 TERMS                                  sional
198' ,'    1q76,7   1987,8    19HO/9  1989/90   1990/1   1991/2   1992/3
T3NNACE :ZT,TC  F18RcE                  ;tazo c     991)    _?9A,    4,772        7 l2        1 154    57243     bi!33
RE:'E'IUE               (3)              9647      77b8      12095     17124      18126    21987    253749    28935
FARMERS INPUI COST itet!                 197:       2093      lb6b      1496       1096       604         SO        68
COTTON EATENCION & PESE;tRCH              355        4'5       435       435        435       435        435       435
COTTONSEED PURCHASE & TRANSPORT          Th22       37'°      7°73     11554      !2991     15719     18539    20854
SiNNGS                                    -8i,                  q       1402       13?6      1526       1614      170i6
ALN1NISTPATION                          I;                 J :: ; 2-0 230           230       230        .30       230
4.I4RETINE                                8i                   a23      104 1 )1             ?-P )I 7             884
-- _- --    -- - --    -- - --    -- - --    -- - --    -- --
SUB-TOTAL                             12280     13149     11985      16217     16850      19291     21697    24177
EARNIN6S BEFORE INT.4 DEP.              -2633     -5381        111       907       1276      2696      3052       4758
INTEREST LONG TERM LOANS                  407         66      2'36       236        236       236       236        236
DEPRECIATION                              *03        6(73      603        793       753       753        753       7'
EARNINGS BEFORE TAX£S                   -37643    -6050i      -728       -82        287      1707       2603      3769
TAXES                                     233       122        268       257        272       423       1091      1533;
EARNINGS BEFORE DIV'IDENDS              -387.5    -6262       -99&      -339         15      1284       1572      2235
SUBSID.ES RECEIVED        k4l             ,coo                . ..,
'.tRA0RDiD.tAR   ITEMS   ':!           -: ,,-479                                   -:0                   CE  
5RIOR YEAR FROFITS        (,-Ci
.ET INCObE                (2)           -1361          0       455      -BIB        -25      1284       1572      2235
(1) Extraordinarv items in   9S9:990.,99('/9, represent contribution to Stabibilization Fund.
2,)  'rior vear profi's reflect differences between bareoe estif.ates and actual results; saae for the
rnet inLuielir 1987,'88.
i4i Re-enue increase in 19.8/Bq relates to oinnine of stocks carried forward from previous vear by new
i nnery (taloi
14) Subsidies are shown separatel-y until FPu  when inruts are financed bv the sector,with qradual
phasing of 25Z annuaili.



- 71 -
Annex 13
R-EPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOr. DEVEOPIImfT Pr.OJECT
SOTOCO's Source and Ap lication of Funds Forecast
CURRENT TERMS              198516   1196/7   1987J8   198819  19990   199011   199112   1992/3
Actual   Actual    Prov. -----------Estieat9d - -- -    -------- --
SOURCES
Internal Resources:
Operatinu Surplus (Deficit)           -1391         0       ssa      -6e2       164      1523      1904      2523
Adds Oeprreciation                      603       603       603       753       753       753       753       753
Interest Long Tere Loan            407        66      236       236       236       236       236       236
Self 6enerated Income                  -371       669      1777       361      1153      2512      2793      3512
sit/otal
LOANS:
Third Cotton Project   (1)                                       992       399       287       184         0
uinneries (Talo) CCCE                                   2000
Talo)  BORD                                   864
Talol -IDA                                   1675
Short Tere Borrowinqs        (3)       1295       211      1120      2915        15         0         0         0
TOTAL SOURCES                           914       880      7436      4268      1555      2799     2977      3512
APPLICATION
Project Investments            (2)                                    992
F.Assets Renewals                      1200       708       708       798       785       787       790       790
6inneries                                                  4539
Debt Service
3imneries: i3)                                          170       170      170       170       I 0          ;
Third Cotton Project
Comitmunt Fee (.751)
Existing Loans                                173       173      173       173       173       173       173
Short Term Borrovings          (3)        0         0        -0        -0         0        21       411      847
Increase in Working Capital 14)        -286         0      1847     2146       428      1649      1434      1530
TOTAL APPLICATION                       914       980      7436      4268      1555     2799      2977      3512
Annual Surplus Cash Balance (5)        161         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Cueul. Surplus Cash Balance            229       229       229       229       229      229       229       229
Cumul. Cash Balance 03019/85            68
DEBT SERVICE COVER                                3.9       5.2       1.1       3.4      7.3       8.1      10.2
(1) External Financing of project of project costs to be onlent to SOTOCO by 6overnment (warehouse #
Inputs)
(2, Include onlv warehouse investment, input costs ire included in Operating Results
(31 Represent borro"sngs to support increases in workinQ capital requirements in (4).
4j Calculated as 43%  f sales, based on 1985186 and 1986187 actual ratios.
(5) Represents available after satisfying Working Capital increases.



- 78 -                                     Annex 14
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOTOCO*. Balance Sheet Forecost
As at September 80 1908 through 1998
CONSTANT 3987 TERMS             1036/6    1986/7    10"7/6    1098/9    1989/90   1990/1    1991/2    1992/8
------- ------------------------------Actusl----------------Estimated In Constant 1987 Terms-----------------
ASSETS:
CURRENT ASSETS: (C)                  8853       8858      8858       9486    le6e       11774      18377     15421
Cash                              229        229       229        807      2031       3146      4748       6792
Trade Receivab le8 3879                     8879      3879       8879      8879       3879      3879       8879
Other Receivables                 956        955       966        955       955        955       966        966
Inventorlis (Not)                8566       566e       866e      a56e      a6ee      s86e       a56e       866s
Other                             229        229       229        229       229        229       229        229
Surplus Cash                        a          a         a          a         o          a         0          o
INVESTMENT CERTIFICATES (F)            98        146     _18          246       831        422       632        658
FIXED ASSETS: (E)                    6294       6398     10042      16098     10943      10898     10862      10808
Establishment Costs                11         11        11         1l        11         11        11         11
Buildings                        2892       2892      5008       5896      6a96       5695      5696      6596
Plant. Mach., Equipt.            2642       2896      Se78       6831      66856      789       7393       7747
Vohiclos                         2516       2870      8224       8677      8931       4286      4639       4993
Office Eauipment                  864        410       410        410       410        410       410        410
Capital Work in Progress           46          0         a          0         0          0         a         0
Less Accumulated Depreciation       (8.077)   (3.680)   (4.283)   (6.036)   (6.789)   (6.542)   (7.295)   (8.048)
TOTAL ASSETS                        14260      14403     19086      20671     21936      23094     24761      26888
_~~~~=                                3=        ==       - =         ==-   -=             =
LIABILITIES:
SHORT TERM BORROWINOS: (D)           6969       7148       6e98      6148      6143       6143      6148       6143
Current Liabilities                  2576       2576      2576       2578      2576       2576      2576       2676
Creditors A Accr. Limb.              3328       8828      8328       8828      8828       3828      3328      8328
Short Terms Part Of Lt Loans      477        446       289        239       239        289       239       239
Banks Seasonal Loans              b88        799       66           6    0         0          0         O 
LONG TERM BORROWINGS:  (8)            022        748      588S       6271      6668       6783      6Sl        6704
Third Cotton Project                6          O         0        992      1380       1667      1851       1851
Ginneries CCCE                    822        748       847        746       684        627       421       314
Ginneries CCCE/BOAD/IDA                               4639       4639      4639       4539      4539      4639
EQUITY: (A)                          6459       8607      7001       8266      9239      10218     11808      14640
Paid In Capital                  2200       2200      2200       2200      2200       2260      2200      2260
Grants from Government           6425       6425      6426      6426       6426      6426       6426      6425
Capital Reserves (FNI)             98        146       185        246       331       422        632       658
General Reserves                   47         47        47         47        47         47        47        47
Aces. Profit/(Loss)            (2.311)   (2.811)   (1.866)       (662)      286      1.124     2.664     4.710
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQJITY          14250      14408     19086      20671     21935      28694     24761      26887
___=s_|z__==__=  ===    =    ==2    =3s       =       =    --   rr==
Equitv A L. Term Borrowings (A.B)   7281        7266     12887      14628     16792      16961     18618      20744
Working Capital (C-D)                1889       1710      2166       3298      4617       5631      7234       9278
Net Fixed Assets (E+F)               6392       6646     10227      11234     11274      11320     11384      11466
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Balance Shoet: Debt/Equity           7.96       8.70      1.88       1.0       1.4        1.560     1.70       2.10
Working Capital Ratio                1.27       1.24      1.82       1.64      1.74       1.92      2.18       2.61



- 75 -
Annex 16
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Governmnt Cash Flow
1M1969   19"9_99   1990191   1991/92   11992/    Yer 1l
INFLOW
Revonue From Taxes en Profits         _2s7        Z72        602       1.262   1.71      1.731
2S7       272      5602     1,262     1,781     1,781
OUTFLOW
Project Costa Shere Net of Taxes        888       888        888  ass   88a                666
Project Debt Service                     22        as         48        s9        89       249
as6       868       878       422       755       916
NET INFLOW/(OUTFLOW) Annual             -98       -91        125       s8o       976       817
NET INFLOW/(OUTFLOW) Cumulative         -9W      -169        -74 766           1,742     2,659
Les: Debt Service on Rural
Development Projeste              eos      a6s      6e6         665      6eo        665
(RD I and RD II) j/
Not Inflows (Outflows):
- Annual                          (703)     (696)      (466)      226       871       212
- Cumulative                      (701)   (1,899)   (1,879)   (1,664)   (1,268)    1,071
y These lnclude also non cotton activities In rural areas such as water supply, rural tracks,
fooderops, etc.



- 77 -
Annex 16
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
PYO     FYI      PV2      P05      PY41
1987188  1988/69  1989/90  1990191  1991192  1992193  1997194  1994591  191196  1996/97  1997191  1998199  1999/2000 2000/01  2001/02  2002/03
Al PRQJECT BENEFITS
Crop Praoction Estialtes let) 1/
Seed Cotton                           85000   94347   109850  123575  133100  133100  133100   133100  133100  133100  133100   133100   133100  133100   133100   133100
Oauze                                 71500   76250   B7350   97000  105600  105600  105600   105600  105600  100600  105600  105600  105600  105600  105600   105600
Sorqhu                               52903   62500   66700   71750   7815    78750   76750   79750   78750   79750   78750   78750   795                17950   7150   7850
Proundnets                            19838   126B0    13350   13700   14210    14210   14210   14210   14210   14210   14210   14210   14210   14210   14210    14210
Compecs                               15365   16650   18300   19380   20580   20580   20580   20580   20500   20580   20580   20580   205t0   20580   20590    20580
RIcO                                   2201    4002    4975    5S50    6325    6325    6125    6325    6325    6325    8325    6325    6325              6325    8325      6325
Incrunental Productiotn let)
Sred Cotton                                    9347   24650   3B575   48100   48100    48100   48100   48100   48100   48100   48100   48100   48100   4t000    48100
taize                                          4750   15850   25500   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100   34100
Sorghue                                        9597    13797   20847   25847   25847   25947   25847   25847   25847   25W7    25847   25847   25947   258947   25847
6roundnats Innshelled)                          842    1512    1862    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372    2372
CoEpeas                                        1285    2935    4015    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215    5215
Rce (opaddy)                                   1800    2774    3449    4124    4124    4124    4124    4124    4124    4124    4122             4124    4124    4124    4124
Economic Prices (CFAF/kIlo/ 2/
Seed Cotton                                   107.1   129.5   142.0   154.5   170.2    182.6   194.0   194.0   194.0   194.0   194.0   184.9   184.9    184.9   284.9
flaize                                         37.9    37.1    37.1    37.1    37.1    37.1    49.8    49.            49.8    49.9    49.8    49.8    51.4    51.4    51.4
Sorqhuo                                        36.4    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    49.3    48.3    49.3    48.3    48.3    49.3    49.5    49.5    49.5
Broundnuts Inmshelledl                          126      126      126      128      126      126     126      120      126     126      126      126      126      126      126
Co peas                                         140      140      140      140      140     140      140      140      140     140      140      140      140      140      140
Rice (paddy)                                     94       94       94       94      94       94       94       94       94      94       94       94       94       94      94
Econoeic Values imtilion CFOFi
Seed Cotton                                  1001.1  3192.2  5477.7  7431.5  9186.6  9793.1  9331.4  9331.4  9331.4  9331.4  9331.4  8a93.7  8893.7  0893.7  8893.7
Ratze                                          180.0   589.0   946.1  1265.1  1265.1  1265.1  1698.2  1698.2  0698.2  1699.2  1698.2  1698.2  0752.7  1752.7  1752.7
Sorghus                                       349.3   496.7   750.5   930.5   930.5   930.5  1248.4  0248.4  0248.4  1248.4  1248.4  1248.4  1?79.4  1279.4  1279.4
groundnsts                                    106.1   190.5   234.6   299.9   298.9   298.9   298.9   298.9   298.9   299.9   298.9   298.9   298.9   298.9   298.9
Compeas                                       179.9   410.9   562.1   730.1   730.1   710.0   730.2   710.1   730.2   730.0   710.0   730 730.             0 7301. no.1   730.1
Rice                                          169.3   260.8   324.2   387.7   387.7  317.7   387.7   387.7   387.7   387.7   387.7   387.7   397.7   387.7   387.7
TO1'A  ECONOMIC OEREFITS                 1985.7  5139.1  9295.1  12043.7  11798.9  12395.3  13694.6  13694.6  13894.6  13694.6  13694.6  13256.9  13342.5  13;42.5  13342.5
00 ECN0R00C COSTS 3/
Ogricultural Extension                       890.2   428.7   428.7   570.7   B80.2   428.7   421.7   570.7   890.2   428.7   429.7   570.7   880.2   428.7   428.7
Research                                      57.0   122.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6    30.6
Farser Groups                                230.9   223.9   113.0   113.8   203.9   103.9   213.8          1. 113.8   2 13.8 123.8    2   13.8 123.9    2  13.9 123.802.
Agrjcultzoral Inputs - Cotton                425.8   766.4  1021.6  1192.9  1102.9  2192.9  1082.9  0192.9   0829.9  1182.9  1182.9 1B82.9  2112.9  112.9    2 1182.
-      Foodcropos         90.0   188.0   303.0   488.0   488.0   468.0  4U8.0   468.0   469.0   468.0   468.0   468.0   469.0   468.0   468.0
Seed Productio  - Foodcrops                   90.0    81.0    87.0    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3    94.3
Feeder tead Naintenance                      282.7   291.7   281.7   290.7   935.2   2801.7   281.7   281.7   281.7   935.2   280.7   281.7   281.7   291.7   935.2
Traininc                                     295.5   117.0    99.0   111.7   111.7   0             11.7 1   22.7   001.7   011.7   011.7   011.7 1      00.7   121.7   111.7
4nno0nrirg and Evnluation                    142.8    88.9    91.0    88.9    88.9    90.9    88.9    88.9    88.9    88.9    88.9 8           0.9    88.9 B     8.9  98.9
4anagnent Suoport                            198.9   149.0   129-8   134.8   100.0   100.    000.0    2000    100.0   100.0   10000    100.0   200.0   000.0   100.0
Cotton  Partetog 0011.0    30.1    25.6    25.                                      6     25.8    25.6    25.6    25 .6    25.     25.6    25.8    25           25.8    25.8
trcremental Fars Labor                       795.6  0821.8  2741.3  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3577.1  3S77.1  3577.1  3577.1
TOTAL ECOCNIIIC COSTS                     4379.3  4089.0  5353.1  6680.1  7608.3  8503.3  6503.3  6645.3  6954.8  7156.8  6503.3  6685.3  6894.8  6503.3  7156.8
C) NET SEREFIT STROiA                       -2393.5   950.1  2942.1  4363.6  4190.6  5892.0  7191.3  7049.3  6739.8  6837.8  7191.3  6811.6  6387.7  6839.2  6185.7
Di ECORN1IC PATE 0F FRETUR%                >501
1/ From Anrexes 10 and 11
2/ Froe Annex 17
31 From Working Paper 9 - Detatled Cost Tables. plus non-project financed costs
Including incremental agrictltural inputs for *oodcrops and farm labor.



- 79 -
Annex 17
REPUBLIC OF TOGO                                               Page 1 of 2
COTTON  SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ecomic Farsqate Pritce - Cotton
(1937 Constant Price)
1986/7 I/  1987/8  1988/9  19P9/90  1990/1  199112  1992/3  199314  199415   2000
PY-1     PYO      PYI      PY2     P13    PF4
Cotton fibre USS/kilo                     2/             1.48    1.37    1.53    1.64    1.75    1.86    1.97    2.07          2.00
Quality differential                      3/              0.9      0.82    0.72    0.62      0.52    0.52    0.52    0.52    0.52
Exchange rate USSCFAF                                     277      277      277     277      277      277     27       277      277
CIF Price CFAFIKILO                              310      406      376     421      452      482      513     543      571      551
COPACO Comwission  (.5I/CAF/I.5021        4/      0.9     1.1      1.0      1.0     1.1      1.2      1.3     1.4      1.5      1.7
Freight                                          37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    31.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0
Insurance (.332/CIFI                              1.0     1.5      1.3      1.4     1.5      1.6      1.7     1.9      1.9      2.1
Inspection                                        1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
39.76   40.55    40.25   40.39    40.54   40.70    40.96   41.16    41.36   41.76
FOB cotton fibre price L011E /kg                  270     366      336      390     411      442      472     502      529      509
FOB cotton seed price LONE /kg                   12.5    12.0    13.0    14.0    15.0    16.0    16.0    17.0    17.0    19.0
Clearing and foruarding IFO0 Fibre)       S/      6.4     6.4      6.4      6.4     6.4      6.4      6.4     6.4      6.4      6.4
Clearing and forwarding IFOD seed)
Costs ginnery to warehouse - fibre       5S       6.6     6.9      6.6     6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3      6.3
Costs ginnery to warehouse - seed                12.9    12.9      7.5      7.4     7.4      7.4      7.4     7.4      7.4      7.4
Value qinnery gate - fibre                      257.2   352.4   323.2   367.9   398.3   429.9   459.1   499.1   516.5   496.8
Value ginnery gate - seed                        -0.4    -0.9      5.5      6.6     7.6      8.6      8.6     9.6      9.6    11.6
Purchase/ginning/admin costs - fibre      5/    36.6    40.2    39.2    39.5    40.1    40.6    41.2    42.0    42.6    44.0
Purchase/ginning/addir costs - seed
Transport to ginnery - fibre                    218.6   312.2   284.0   328.2   358.2   388.3   417.9   447.1   473.9   452.8
Transport to ginnery - seed                      -0.4    -0.9      5.5      6.6     7.6      9.6      8.6     9.6      9.6    11.6
Sinning percentage - fibre                5/      42?      421      422     42U      421      422     432      432      432      432
Sinning percentage - seed                          552     552      542      542     542      542      542     542      542      542
Seedcotten equivalent                            91.6   131.7   119.9   139.5   151.2   163.9   179.7   192.3   203.9   194.7
Prisary earketing                         S/    15.2    16.9    12.7        9.0     9.2      9.3      9.5     9.7      9.9     9.8
Export parity price at faragate                  76.4   114.9   107.1   129.5   142.0   154.5   170.2   182.6   194.0   184.9
353_:  3353       83=    53335    =Sa3   3353    553         .5-     *.--   :-s:-
1/  Actual data
2/  IIRD January, 1999 coodity price projections; cotton (Outlook 'A  Index), fliddling 11-3/32), CIF Europe.
3/  ref: Etude de la Filiere Coton au Togo ICFDT 7/87)
4/  Assume 502 sale by Co pagnie Cotonniere agents.
5/  ref Dtcument de Travail: Coupte Analytiqum Previsionnel de la Filiere Coton, 15T5CO, 1907.



- 80 -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO                                              Annex  17
Page 2 of 2
COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Faragate Prices
11997 Constant Prices)
SORGHUM                                          MAIZE
1999    1990    1995      2000              1959     1990     1995    2000
-------1997 USS PER TON    ----                    --1957 USS PER TON
f.0 ..1)                                 77.2    75.9   116.4    120.3                82.4    79.8   121.6   126.9
FREIGHT I INSURlANCE (2)                 35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0                 35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0
C.I.F., LONE                            112.2   110.9   151.4   155.3                117.4   114.8   156.6   161.9
-----1987  000 CFAF PER TON -----              -……1997 '000 CFAF PER TON ----
C.I.F. 13)                               31.1    30.7    41.9    43.0                 32.5    31.8    43.4    44.8
PORT HAND./STORA6E                        5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0               5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
OVERHEADIMARGIN (41                       3.6      3.6      4.7      4.9               3.8      3.7      4.9      5.0
iHOLESALE VAL. LONE                      39.7    39.3    51.6    52.8                 41.3    40.5      53.2    54.9
TRANSP.LOME-RESIONAL MARKET (5)           6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5               6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5
REFERENCE IARKET PRICE                   46.2    45.9    59.1    59.3                 47.8    47.0    59.7    61.3
TRANSP. FARM-REGIONAL MARKET (6)          5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5               5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
PROCESSINS AND PRIMARY NIKTING (7)        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0               2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
STORAGE LOSSES (5?)                       2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3               2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4
IMPORT PARITY PRICE AT FARMUATE          36.4    36.0    48.3    49.5                 37.9    37.1    49.8    51.4
3zz33z   ==:==   ==S 2=   =:==3:                      Z s:=     zzzu   UZZ=U=
(1) Bank January, 1968 coodity price projections; Sorghum - US, No.2, Rilo yellow.
Maize - No.2, yellow. Both from 6ulf States.
(21 Estimated Freight & Insurance tharges 6ulf States U.S.- Lose.
(3) Converted to CFAF at USSI-CFAF 277.
(41 Importer's overhead & handling costs estimated at 107 of CIF plus
port handling and storage charges.
(5) Transport costs between Lone & regional market uhere project output will be sold.
(6) Transport costs between fare and regional market.
(71 Bagging and primary marketing.



NOTES



NOTES
!



MAP SECTION



*\_BBURKINA FASO                                               SENEGAL I,c.r                                                                CHAD
r-T   DAMSIA+~                                 "RKRNA                         _N
5                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~GUINEA Yf '                      ASO     --                               1
DAPAfO                                           A\$Sz|ISASA -M  GUINEA    S   L          C r   ': <BNIN  
SIERRA      t                    t      I       NIGERIA          (  -'
w(          | b.\ TONE    /jGECNF - 1  )COTE D IVOIRE,                                                            O .i!
IMLAMi-;t      0- -                                       ,LIiERIn                (GHANA  a)1  j _.                /          AFRICAN
--   *                      J                    \ XfATLANTIC   -                                              ,j<   CARTERGON
A           AvtrlNn  .                             OCEAN                                       D      Ocnrc
\g_   '  \   w1  OTI   .    ,9ESLNEt    _-  PR
"N                                                                                                       THE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.H
.~CIF EITAIN IN  t.                x                                                                                       .GARON    ,ONO
CROA   ROTATION IN ,J5.'
COI,0N PSRDJClNG A,!' S                                            <                                             2   TOGO-
POFATIO,'S DIES CULTORFSI  +-*- 
DANSl ES ZONES /,                 -                            N  -.                 COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOION,NIEP"S                                                      % TCfRAX t5s PROJET DE DEVELOPPMENT DU SECTEUR COTON
-MAn&,| -PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE AND COTTON GROWING AREAS
IIU -{9e : 0ut   "Ic .< >, ii-  p   _         s      ,;/         io-;  a^ INFRASTRUCTURE DU  PROJET ET ZONES COTONNIERES
!<I'  AoA.    ., Ri D¶/EL                                                                       -    COTTON PRGDUCING AREAS
ZONES GE PRGODUCTiTN COTOGNNIERE
*   PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
I                     ~~~~~~~~SIEGE DU PROJET
T~~~~~~~~~o~~~ ~                    SOTOCO FOODCROP APPLIED RESEARCH
. C' . . -, . . . , , .a K  A  R                                                       SR    ($OTOCG RECHERCHIE APPLIoUEE VIEVRERS
IRACT RESEARCH STATIONS
STA TION DE RECHERCHE IRCT
O   GINNERY
OL)                           UStNE ~~~~~~~D'EGEENAGE OfCE O
*   WORKSHOPS
* TEXTILE MILLS                   PRIVATELY OPERATD
USDINE TEXTILE                  N.OT PART GE PROJECT)
A   COTTONSEED OIL MILL             SECTEUR PRIVE
/USINVE TRITURAGE GRAINE E COTON    (HORS PROJET)
9(                                                                  9O
r   /   , _>TCHA_ \UD8,t,pj    '                 FORESTS, RESERVES. NATIONAL PARKS
PORETS, RESERVES. PARCS NATIONAUX
MAIN ROADS
ROUTES PEDRNCIPASES
f   IFOJ-b}P£-AEL     ,,   1YALA    ! _ SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES -6[
sara LIBOVA  *  -s                           *. ~~~~~~~~~~MAIN RIVERES
\  * SOf OUBOU^/9   R /     \f   - - COURS G EAU IMPORTANTS
I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~ISOFHVETS IN MILLIMETERES
|YE- ISHEES EN MIELIMETRES
SELECTED T WNS
<t PREPECTURE CAPITALS                 (
CHEFS-LREUX GE PREFECTURE
-  ~~~~~~EIN CAPITALS
z       r                    i~>  \ <                     '             z   CHIGEFS LIEUG DE REGION
CAPITALE       IAL 
Kp<  7  <  , m  <    i         - R     REFECTURNDARIES
<                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMITES Sf PRIPECTIRES(
-__REGION ROUNDARRES
LIMITE DSE REGIONS                                 B
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES   i
iFRONTIEES INTERNATIONAEES
t4GWAWA }   \  \   V 5%   \                   !B NNNIGERIA
|   K          ~~MOU ,                     
1 50E                                                     |                      B  E  N  I Ni.
rA,
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25  1DO7z-W!'
:0::~~~~ NY                                                                                                           --
ELR  g X    !   72  \Wg    YOTO    >                        ~~~~~~~~~~          ~          ~~KILOMETERSj
/4S/ \/    ojS          abl 9S                                                                 (         r= 09E



BURKINA FASO                                 E  N *                                                                                 HAD
OC8AGUINEA                                                      G           _PN N
SIERRA'x    '                              NIGERIA
-,LEONEOTTON SCOTE D        DIVOIRE                    AROIE
Coi \      55e/-r,.kX   i    POJET D  DEVEOPPMEJ DU  ECTEU  CAEOTON
) < 8 i, j A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRCLURLETNIONAEA                                                     -    PRESOSBTIES
IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
{/   *t/fr   27, t S~ * -z                                 ZONALUZATION DE RESPONSABIL/TES DE
t$N  4 r Dp  i t                 VULGAR/SAT/ON AGRICOLE
TOGOC
D                        EO   THER JOINT GOY ERNMEN     C OP OGO/EXTERNAL
r , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DONOR FINANCED EXTENSION PROJECTS.
xf,o < _._ ^sb j y t_94 _a_7 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUTRES PEOJEfTS XE VIJTOGEARISAzTI7 ON fAGRCOES D
AGRIJCULTUR___   AGRICULTOEAL EXENSION EROJECT DRES   NIDAI
,Drow    S: J  ss W° ! FROJET GE VULGAR ISATI ON AGRICOLE - ORDR (ISA)
Di PONOR FEDIN   ANCED EXTNINPR) CS
G   H  A  N  A   r   ........                          t                        - -a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRCC lIAD  CCCE, FACd
_p _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                    (dt  ..............68..^  ASSOCIATION FOUR LA FSOEUCTIVIPE (USAID) 
TFORESTS. RSE#RVES. N ATIONAL PARKS
F,ROUTES PAiNCG     AUES     0
-  ONDLESESEODRRAS
PROUTESSECODEAVANES C(OISES
G    H   A   N   A                                                                              F;;:W   PDORC (SGTZBR)JA    0 
,   \   1    /  <  /   }      9        S             b t              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COURS DEAU IRPORTANTS
.-  ISOHETES EN MJALIJETIES
9-                                                                        A I  t   Ll  v   /   > )   OSEIECTED TOWNS   j
,  * I  |   X  :   Z   ,,  VIUES CRORSES
J   f            otL   '       4              L97 ~~~~~~~~~~~~CRHEeFS-I ISUEEX GE PREFECTURE   1
>  :ra X                            , j             @~~~~~~I      REGION CAPITALS 
RONAUTISOPNCAPAL ES
?"C-w T                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~ - PEFECTUE SEOUNDARIESAD
Flt  '  }  '  t   t   a4S  j  --LI7MIOTES DE PREFECTURES       r
5S° 41 ____4-S                                                                                                         REGION SOUNDARI ES
)  Vrr   tk      <cl OGOU                               PEONlUIEAS INTE NTS
i'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOYT IN MILLIMETERSX j                                            '
(  ,;_  T~~~AT^rA 1    \ X    X u  \  t  \        .~~~~                                                      NIGERIA
voH                                       E MUILOMETRES                J
rf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CES1U O+^                                     MFEC  _TURE,/ 
I TxM'E  '    ~ ~ ~~PRFETUE OUDAIE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNi i  ErE>S NTEATNAS
_   \  b  ~~~~~~~~~ _ s j~~~olo



