Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1929 TO
                (Cotton Sector Development Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 13, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1929 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 13,  1989, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan  (the CCCE Loan) in an amount
of six million four hundred  thousand French Francs (FF 6,400,000)
to assist in  financing  part  of  the  Project  on  the terms and
conditions set forth in an  agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
     (C)  the Borrower intends  to  contract  from the Republic of
France, acting through the Fonds d' Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) a
Page  2
grant (the FAC Grant) in  an  amount  of one million eight hundred
forty thousand French Francs (FF 1,840,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and FAC; and
     (D)  the Project  will  be  carried  out  by  SOTOCO with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to  SOTOCO the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and SOTOCO;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and SOTOCO of even  date  herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered  into  between  the   Borrower   and  SOTOCO  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
     (d)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
     (e)  "FPSF" means the Floor Price Support Fund referred to in
Section 3.04 (d) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "GAV"  means   Groupement   Agricole  Villageois,  i.e.,
cooperative  associations  established  by  farmers  to  carry out
operations of common interest  such  as input distribution, credit
recovery and storage;
     (g)  "SOTOCO" means  Societe  Togolaise  du  Coton,  a public
enterprise of the Borrower  established  and operating pursuant to
Decree No. 74-67, dated March 27, 1974 of the Borrower;
     (h)  "IRCT" means  the  Borrower's  Institute  for Cotton and
Textile Research;
     (i)  "OPAT" means the Office  des Produits Agricoles du Togo,
an agency of the  Borrower,  established and operating pursuant to
Decree No. 64-01, dated June 22, 1964 of the Borrower;
     (j)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
Page  3
     (k)  "Mechanism" means the  mechanism  for  setting up cotton
producer  price  and  for   distributing  cotton  sector  revenues
referred to in Section 3.04 (d) of this Agreement; and
     (l)  "FRI" means le Fonds  de Roulement Insecticides referred
to in Section 2.01 (e) of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million  nine  hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,900,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of  the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for  expenditures  made  (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1,
commencing September  1,  1998  and  ending  March  1,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on March 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
Page  4
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of  Section  4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 2.09. SOTOCO is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SOTOCO  to  perform  in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement  all the obligations of SOTOCO
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or  appropriate  to  enable SOTOCO to perform
such obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall:  (i)  relend  the  proceeds  of the
Credit which may be allocated  from  time  to time to Category (1)
(a) of the table set forth  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement to  SOTOCO  under  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  SOTOCO,  under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which
shall include interest at the  rate  of  6 percent per annum and a
repayment period of 20 years including  a grace period of 5 years;
and (ii) make the proceeds  of  the  Credit which may be allocated
from time  to  time  to  Categories  (1)  (b)  through  (5) of the
aforementioned table available to SOTOCO as a grant.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
Page  5
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by  SOTOCO  pursuant  to  Section  2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  unless as shall be otherwise agreed with the Association
and depending  on  field  and  financial  results,  phase  out all
insecticide subsidies by May 1, 1992;
     (b)  (i) each year  the  Project  is  being implemented, make
budgetary allocations  sufficient  to  cover  the  cost  of public
service activities  such  as  extension  services and agricultural
research being carried out  by  SOTOCO  on behalf of the Borrower;
(ii) by June 1  of  each  year  submit  to the Association for its
approval the  draft  budgetary  allocations  referred  to  in sub-
paragraph (i) above; and (iii)  by  the first day of each calendar
quarter, promptly deposit the quarterly  amount so required in the
Project Account;
     (c)  take all necessary measures required on its part: (i) to
permit SOTOCO  to  be  managed  as  an  autonomous, industrial and
commercially oriented  enterprise;  and  (ii)  to  ensure that, by
December 31, 1992, all  public  service activities presently being
carried out by SOTOCO shall be actually transferred to appropriate
departments or agencies  of  the  Borrower  in  accordance with an
action plan acceptable to the  Association; said action plan shall
be reviewed with the  Association  no  later than January 1, 1992;
and
     (d)  (i) ensure that cotton  producer price and cotton export
revenues  distributed  among   all   parties  concerned  shall  be
determined in accordance with  the  price setting mechanism agreed
upon with the Association;  (ii)  establish  a Floor Price Support
Fund aimed at  ensuring  a  floor  producer  price for cotton; and
(iii) ensure that FPSF shall be managed in accordance with by-laws
and  regulations  acceptable  to  the  Association;  any  proposed
disbursement out of  FPSF  shall  be  made  in  agreement with the
Association.
     Section 3.05. Except as  shall  be  otherwise agreed with the
Association, the Borrower shall not  authorize any increase of its
ginning capacity  before  the  full  utilization  of the following
ginneries: i.e., SOTOCO, Notse, Kara and Talo (about 150,000 tons)
has been fully ensured.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  SOTOCO shall have failed  to  perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make it improbable that SOTOCO will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Decree No. 74-67, dated  March  27, 1974 of the Borrower
shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and  adversely the ability of SOTOCO to
Page  6
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOTOCO or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  FPSF's by-laws or  regulations  shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without prior approval by
the Association.
     (f) (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of  the  Borrower  and  of SOTOCO to
                    withdraw the  proceeds  of  any  grant or loan
                    made  to  the  Borrower   or  SOTOCO  for  the
                    financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
        (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if  the  Borrower  or  SOTOCO  establishes  to  the
               satisfaction of the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower or SOTOCO  to  perform any of its
                    obligations under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  or  SOTOCO from other sources
                    on terms  and  conditions  consistent with the
                    obligations of  the  Borrower  or SOTOCO under
                    this   Agreement   and   under   the   Project
                    Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs  (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the events specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has: (i) taken measures satisfactory to the
Association, for setting  up  a  mechanism  for determining cotton
producer prices; and (ii)  revised  SOTOCO's  statutes in a manner
satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  SOTOCO has raised the  selling  price of cotton insecti-
cides to 25 percent of the full cost of such insecticides;
     (c)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
Page  7
behalf of the Borrower and SOTOCO;
     (d)  the Borrower has deposited  an  amount of eighty million
CFAF (CFAF 80,000,000) into the Project Account; and
     (e)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of, or
initial disbursements under, the  CCCE  Loan Agreement and the FAC
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled save the effectiveness of this
Agreement.
     Section  5.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by SOTOCO, and is  legally  binding upon SOTOCO in accor-
dance with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  SOTOCO  and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SOTOCO in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the minister  of  the  Borrower responsible for economy
and finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
          Lome
          Republic of Togo
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINFIE                            5286
               Lome
               Togo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                    REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                    By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  Part A (7)             2,297,000       100%
          of the
          Project
     (b)  Part B (2)               332,000       100%
          of the
          Project
(2)  Equipment and                 771,000       100%
     vehicles
(3)  Consultants'                  445,000       100%
     services
(4)  Agricultural                3,090,000       100%
     inputs
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Operating
     costs:
     (a)  for Parts                200,000       100%
          B (1) and
          E (5) of
          the Project
     (b)  for other              2,672,000       80% up to
          Parts of                               December 31,
          the Project                            1989; 60% up to
                                                 December 31,
                                                 1990; 40% up to
Page  9
                                                 December 31,
                                                 1991; and 20%
                                                 thereafter
(6)  Unallocated                 1,093,000
                              ____________
          TOTAL                 10,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures incurred by SOTOCO, inter alia, for incremental
salaries for extension staff, incentive premiums, office supplies,
vehicle maintenance, project-related  travel  and expenditures for
the pest scouting program.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall  be  made:  (a)  in  respect  of  payments  made for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 44,800 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after November
1, 1987; and (b) in  respect  of  payments made under Category (4)
unless the Association  has  received  evidence satisfactory to it
that the  FPSF  referred  to  in  Section  3.04  (d)  (ii) of this
Agreement has been established.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are: (a) to increase farmers'
revenues; (b)  to  maximize  the  return  of  previous investments
already made in the Cotton  Sector; (c) to increase the efficiency
of the  Sector;  and  (d)  improve  the  mechanism  for setting up
producer prices and distributing revenues from the sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Support Services
1.   Design and delivery  to  farmers  of extension messages aimed
at  increasing  the   production   and   productivity  of  cotton,
foodcrops and livestock,  including  necessary measures to protect
the environment.
2.   Training of extension  agents  in  the  efficient  use of the
Training/Visit extension methodology.
3.   Promotion of animal traction.
4.   Establishment and support of GAV's operations.
5.   Introduction of new high  yield  cotton varieties and produc-
tion of improved cotton and foodcrop seeds.
6.   Acquisition and distribution of agricultural inputs.
7.   Construction of a cotton warehouse in Lome.
Part B:   Research
1.   Adaptive research relating,  inter  alia, to: (a) development
and dissemination of  high  yield/high ginning-out capacity cotton
varieties; and (b) development  of improved foodcrop varieties and
weed and pest control techniques.
2.   Construction of a small IRCT research ginnery and acquisition
of related equipment and inputs.
Page  10
Part C:   Feeder Road maintenance
     Routine maintenance of about 3,000 kms of feeder roads in the
cotton areas.
Part D:   Training
     Training  of  SOTOCO's   staff   in   the  following  fields:
agriculture, finance, computer  use,  adaptive research, personnel
and facilities management.
Part E:   Strengthening of Operations in the Cotton Sector
     Implementation of an  action  program  including: (i) phasing
out subsidies granted  to  farmers  for  agricultural inputs; (ii)
reducing SOTOCO's transport fleet;  (iii) establishing a mechanism
allowing flexibility of producer prices, and establishing of FPSF;
(iv) streamlining of marketing  operations; and (v) implementing a
staff incentives premium program.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
