OFFICIAL
DOCU MENTS2
CREDIT NUMBER 1929 TO
Project Agreement
(Cotton Sector Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON
Dated       F/3                    , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1929 TO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       F4ku'asj /3           , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAfION (the Association) and
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON (SOTOCO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Togo (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,900,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that SOTOCO agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SOTOCO, certain part of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to SOTOCO partly as a grant and partly on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS SOTOCO, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SOTOCO declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the'Project.
(b) SOTOCO shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon the
generality of the provision of paragraph (a) above with regard to
the provision of funds, SOTOCO shall open and maintain in CFAF a
Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) Amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used
only to defray the cost of public service activities carried out
by SOTOCO on behalf'of the Borrower.
(e) For the purposes of ensuring the continued financing of
insecticides purchases, SOTOCO shall: (i) open and maintain an
account (the FRI) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association; (ii) deposit in said account the
proceeds of all insecticides sales made by SOTOCO; and (iii) use
the funds deposited in FRI only to finance insecticides purchases.
(f) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and SOTOCO shall
otherwise agree, SOTOCO shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services


﻿-3-
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SOTOCO shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. SOTOCO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SOTOCO shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SOTOCO shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SOTOCO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by SOTOCO of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOTOCO
Section 3.01. SOTOCO shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SOTOCO shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. SOTOCO shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SOTOCO shall, by January 1, 1992, submit to the
Association for its approval an action plan for an orderly
transfer of public service activities currently carried out by
SOTOCO to appropriate departments or agencies of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SOTOCO shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) SOTOCO shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii). furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, SOTOCO shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such Fiscal Year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SOTOCO shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.8:1.
(b) Before October 31, in each of its fiscal years, SOTOGO
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SOTOCO and satis-
factory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that SOTOCO would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SOTOCO's fiscal years
covered by such review, SOTOCO shall promptly take all necessary


﻿- 6 -
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including
accounts receivable, marketable securities, and
pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii) The term     "current liabilities" means all
liabilities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be called
for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
and dividends.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the AssociaLion.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SOTOCO thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SOTOCO
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For SOTOCO:
B.P. 219
Atakpame
Republic of Togo
Cable address:                   Telex:
SOTOCO                         5179
Atakpame
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SOTOCO, or by SOTOCO on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by SOTOCO's Director General or such other person or
persons as SOTOCO shall designate in writing, and SOTOCO shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen.signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    41               V             )C
Region1 7ce President
Africa
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON
By                              Rekesentative
Authgrized Reffesentative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods or services estimated to cost less than
$200,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that:
(i) all bids shall be opened in public and bidders'
representatives shall be allowed to be present;
(ii) criteria for evaluating bids shall be set out
clearly and communicated to all bidders; and
(iii) foreign companies shall not be required to be
incorporated in Togo in order to participate in the
bidding.
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Works for the maintenance of feeder roads may be carried out
by SOTOCO's force account.


﻿- 11 -
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the. contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to
the Project Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SOTOCO in carrying out the Project, SOTOCO
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with


﻿- 12 -
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
SDR 1,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for
a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall


﻿- 14-
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof


﻿- 15 -
not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Associa-
tion into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
SOTOCO shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
timetable set out hereunder.
1.   Establishment of the mechanism for setting cotton producer
prices by December 31, 1988.
2.   Announcement of the cotton floor producer price by March 31,
1989.
3.   Establishment of FPSF by December 31, 1988.
4.   Implementation of measures agreed with the Association to
restructure cotton export marketing by December 31, 1988.
5.   Study and implementation of a scheme acceptable to the
Association by December 31, 1988, for attributing financial
incentives to SOTOCO's staff.
6.   Reduction of SOTOCO's transport fleet through disposition of
25 trucks by July 31, 1989.
7.   Development of a management information system by
December 31, 1988, and establishment of said management
information system by October 31, 1989.
8.   Initiation of study on SOTOCO's cost effectiveness by
June 30, 1991, and completion not later than December 31,
1991.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


