                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 26174

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (CPL-40130)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.90 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                            AND A

                  GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY

        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.60 MILLION (US$ 6.90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                          LITHUANIA

                                            FOR A

                  KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT




                                          June 11, 2003




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective November 25, 2002)

                                  Currency Unit = Lithuania Litas (LTL)
                                           LTL 1 = US$ 0.29
                                            US$ 1 = LTL 3.39

                                         FISCAL YEAR


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BGES    Baltic Geothermal Energy Study
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum
CO      Carbon Dioxide
  2
DEPA    Danish Environmental Protection Agency
DONG    Dansk Olie & Naturas A/S
EG      Enterprise Geoterma
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
ESR     Energy Sector Review
FCF     Free Cash Flow
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GHG     Greenhouse Gases
GOL     Government of Lithuania
HFO     Heavy Fuel Oil
IAS     International Accounting Standards
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
KGDP    Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project
KDHE    Klaipeda District Heating Enterprise
KE      Klaipedos Energija
LPC     Lithuanian Power Company
MOE     Ministry of Economy
MOEP    Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MW      Megawatt
NO      Nitrogen Oxides
   x
NPV     Net Present Value
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SO      Sulfur Dioxide
  2
TF      Trust Fund
TJ      Terajoules = 1012Joules
TPM     Total Particulate Matter
ToP     Take or Pay


                                 Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
                   Country Manager/Director:       Roger W. Grawe
                     Sector Manager/Director:      Jane E. Holt
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Anders O. Halldin

                                         LITHUANIA
                                KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39

Project ID: P036011                                                      Project Name: KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL
Team Leader: Anders O. Halldin                                           TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 19, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL                                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-40130
    Country/Department: LITHUANIA                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: District heating and energy efficiency services (100%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Climate change (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/14/1994                                        Effective: 09/30/1996              10/30/1996
    Appraisal:   03/08/1995                                            MTR: 09/01/1997                12/13/1998
    Approval:    05/09/1996                                         Closing: 04/30/2002               12/30/2002

     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA/ENTERPRISE GEOTERMA
                      Other Partners:      Global Environment Facility, Danish Environmental Protection Agency

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:          Roger W. Grawe                                      Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:            Jane Holt                                           Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:        Anders Halldin                                      Anders Halldin
ICR Primary Author(s): Anders O. Halldin; Kimberly
                           Heuckroth; Da Zhu; Inesis Kiskis


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

From a technical perspective the Project was at risk from early stages of implementation, when the injection
well turned out to have too low of an injection capacity. In view of the limited budget and the high cost for
drilling a new well, the Project would most likely have been closed if the second well had also been a
failure. Another technical risk occurred when the plant was first put into operation during 2001; its

injection capacity had been reduced substantially as a result of clogging with gypsum crystals, and the
wells had to be cleaned. Recently, a serious problem associated with clogging of the plant's absorption heat
pumps with gypsum crystals has been observed. The Project is at a considerable risk if steps are not taken
to mitigate this problem. DEPA has approved further financing of US$ 0.3 million to help Enterprise
Geoterma (EG) resolve this problem, which is possible to fix from a technical perspective.


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project were as follows:

    (i) to demonstrate the feasibility and value of using low temperature geothermal water as a renewable,
    indigenous energy resource in district heating systems;
    (ii) to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and sulfur dioxide (SO ) by replacing gas and
                                                                                2
    heavy oil (mazut with an S-content of 3.5%); and
    (iii) to promote sustainable management and the development of environmentally sound and
    non-polluting geothermal resources both in a national and regional perspective.

The project was expected to have considerable local and global benefits by reducing carbon dioxide (CO ),
                                                                                                         2
sulfur dioxide (SO ), total particulate matter (TPM) and nitrogen oxides (NO ) emissions. It was estimated
                   2                                                          X
that the Project would reduce annual emissions of CO and NO by 47,800 tons and 1 ton respectively if
                                                       2         X
natural gas were replaced, and 51,940 and 11 tons respectively if heavy fuel oil (HFO) were replaced.
HFO substitution would also result in an estimated reduction of 1,160 tons per year of SO . Other project
                                                                                          2
benefits included demonstrating the cost effectiveness of developing indigenous geothermal energy
resources on a larger scale (as recommend in the Lithuanian Energy Development Program) and achieving
savings in foreign currency exchange used to import fossil fuels for heating purposes.




                                                     - 2 -

The Project objectives were clear and realistic.
The Project objectives were in line with national priorities and the Bank's 1994 Public Expenditure Review
(PER), Energy Sector Review (ESR) and at Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which, inter alia,
recommended developing indigenous, geothermal energy resources for application in district heating
systems. These recommendations were supported by the findings of extensive field visits by Lithuanian and
Bank specialists. The Project was undertaken on a pilot, demonstration basis in order to determine
whether the use of geothermal resources could be expanded across Lithuania. The Project was not overly
complex since it was in a well defined and small geographic area, did not try to undertake a large range of
policy/institutional improvements, and did not involve a large number of institutions. The competence of
the implementing agency, Enterprise Geoterma (EG), which had already been involved during the
preparation of the Baltic Geothermal Energy Study (BGES), was evaluated as strong enough to manage the
project as designed.

After the collapse of the Former Soviet Union, Lithuania faced a number of problems in its energy sector
specifically related to heating: high energy intensity and the need for energy efficiency and conservation;
limited domestic energy resources, which in 1996, when the Project was appraised, supplied only 2% of the
country's heat demand; almost total dependence on imported fuels from Russia and thus vulnerability to
serious supply disruptions; and difficulty in passing price increases on to consumers to achieve cost
recovery. In 1992, the Government of Lithuania (GOL) developed a National Energy Strategy to address
the issues facing the energy sector. A priority goal outlined in the strategy was the development of
indigenous and renewable energy sources in order to increase Lithuania's energy independence and security
of heat supply.

The BGES undertaken in the early 1990s by Petroleum Geology Investigators and financed by the Danish
Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA), indicated that geothermal energy resources are the greatest in
Lithuania. Compared to other indigenous energy resources such as peat and wood, geothermal energy has
a much larger development potential and no environmental impact. Furthermore, accessing geothermal
energy resources in the Baltic region was believed to be relatively simple given that drilling depths were
limited to 800-1200 meters. The GOL requested that DEPA extend its BGES to include the preparation of
a feasibility study for the construction of a geothermal demonstration plant in Klaipeda, which was
identified as the most suitable location for a pilot project.

The feasibility study estimated that a geothermal demonstration plant in Klaipeda could provide
approximately 10% of the city's total heat demand (5,600 Terajoules in 1994) and reduce emissions of
GHGs from boiler houses in Klaipeda by 10%. If successful, from both a technical and economic
perspective, the feasibility study suggested that the use of geothermal heat could be expanded to several
other district heating networks in Lithuania.

In 1994, the World Bank completed a PER, ESR and CAS for Lithuania. The PER highlighted the need to
support priority investments in the energy sector. The ESR recommended that limited resources be targeted
at improving production efficiency, setting price incentives to promote conservation, improving the security
of fuel supplies, and developing indigenous, geothermal energy resources for application in district heating
systems. The 1994 CAS also emphasized the need to develop, in an environmentally sound manner, those
domestic supplies of energy which could prove commercial, emphasizing the need to explore the country's
for geothermal resource potential.

Given the national importance of increasing Lithuania's energy security and, the results of geothermal
energy studies, the GOL requested a loan from the Bank to build a geothermal demonstration plant in
Klaipeda. The Bank agreed to a loan for a portion of the project cost, while the Global Environment


                                                       - 3 -

Facility (GEF), and DEPA agreed to provide additional grant financing. The GOL agreed to contribute
financing in the amount of 15% of the Project cost.

In brief the geothermal plant was designed as follows:
Geothermal water at a temperature of about 42 °C would be pumped from the Devonian aquifer at a depth
of 1300 m below ground. After passing through the geothermal plant, the temperature of the water would
fall to about 17 °C and then be reinjected to the same aquifer, but at a distance of more than 1.6 km from
the well where the water was pumped up. The extracted energy would be transferred to the district heating
system to raise the water temperature from about 44 °C to about 68 °C. The heart in the plant is the
absorption heat pump, where the energy is extracted from the geothermal water and transferred to the
district heating system. The heat pumps use hot water for driving energy; the energy from the hot water
would also be transferred to the district heating system. The extraction of heat from the geothermal water
was estimated at 16.3 MW, based on a flow of 600 m /hour. At the time of design and appraisal, it was
                                                        3


anticipated that the driving heat would be delivered by the nearby Eastern Boiler House belonging to the
Klaipeda District Heating Enterprise (KDHE), and that the extracted geothermal heat would be received by
the district heating company as the base load (representing the need for hot water production) all year
round.

Certain risks were foreseen. Technical and managerial risks were identified. The technical ones were
limited to lower than expected supply of geothermal energy (amount of water and water temperature).
Implementation risks included: longer implementation period due to limited institutional and administrative
capacity in Lithuania for future development of geothermal resources; and delayed installation of a steam
boiler at KDHE needed to provide driving energy to the geothermal plant (absorption heat pumps). These
risks were to be reduced through: careful monitoring during drilling of production wells; ensuring that
appropriate project management arrangements were in place in a timely manner; preparing and executing a
sound Action Plan for development of Enterprise Geoterma (EG); and securing grant funding to cover the
manufacturing and installation of the required steam or hot water boiler if deemed necessary. A decline in
the price of HFO and natural gas to the point where geothermal energy would be uncompetitive was
identified as a potential economic risk for the project but was not considered likely to occur.

In addition to these risks, efforts were taken prior to project approval to address the potential risk that
KDHE would not purchase energy from EG. At the time of project appraisal, a Take-or-Pay (ToP)
contract was signed between EG and KDHE (owned by the Lithuanian Power Company (LPC)). The
contract provided that, over a 25 year period, KDHE would be obligated to accept a quantity of heat up to
an amount equal to the base load demand over the year. The price to be paid was to be based on the actual
heat production cost (border price, custom duty, transport, storage, handling in Klaipeda, environmental
fees) for KDHE during the previous quarter, inclusive of fees. During project negotiations, it was agreed
that LPC would take all necessary measures to ensure that KDHE complied with its obligations under the
ToP contract, and that if KDHE were sold, its obligations in accordance with the ToP contract would be
transferred to the new owner. The contract was to start on January 1, 1999, but was delayed to 2001 given
the technical start-up difficulties that EG faced.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had two major components (see Annex 2 for more details):




                                                      - 4 -

(a) Investment component for:
l drilling of two production wells and one injection well;
l procurement and installation of above ground facilities including buildings and necessary equipment
    such as absorption heat pumps, heat exchangers, and auxiliary equipment for control and regulation of
    the plant and the transfer of heat to the district heating system; and
l installation of piping between the production wells and the geothermal plant, the geothermal plant and
    the injection well, and the geothermal plant and the district heating network.

(b) Technical assistance and training component for:
l design of the geothermal loop, including all necessary equipment for extracting heat from the
    geothermal water and transferring it to the district heating system;
l preparation of detailed drilling, testing and completion programs;
l provision of management support for project implementation, including support in preparing tender
    documents and construction supervision; and
l training of Lithuanian staff and management in the operation of a similar geothermal plant in Thisted,
    Denmark to optimize transfer of technology.

The components were related to achieving the project's objectives. Project activities were supported by
technical and engineering support from Dansk Olie & Naturgas A/S (DONG), which managed Danish
consulting groups Petroleum Geological Investigators A/S and Houe & Olsen, that provided assistance
during the planning, implementation and start-up of the Project. In addition to technical support and
training, the Project also provided assistance to build EG's financial management capacity at all stages of
the Project. EG received training in disbursement and procurement practices several times during Project
implementation, and also training in financial management during Bank supervision missions. In addition
to the input during supervision, the Bank utilized the Flemish TF to provide further managerial and
procurement assistance to EG during the first two years, when a number of crucial procurement activities
took place.

At the time of Project preparation, Bank involvement in geothermal energy activities in Europe and Central
Asia (ECA) was limited to ongoing preparation work for planned projects in Poland and Slovakia. Overall
Bank experience in implementing geothermal projects was limited to power producing plants in Kenya, and
a new geothermal project in the Philippines. Therefore, the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project
was not only the first geothermal project in the Baltic region, but was also the first Bank loan to assist with
the development of geothermal resources to be used for heating purposes. Given the pilot nature of the
Project, the design of the components was based to a large extent on existing geothermal plants and
experience in Scandinavia, especially Denmark. Lessons learned from this project in Klaipeda will be very
useful for any future projects that might be undertaken in Lithuania, other countries in ECA, and more
broadly, in different regions of the world, especially if they are made available in a hand book for technical
and administrative planners and decision-makers.

3.4 Revised Components:
No new components were added to the project and none were dropped. However, the scope, type and
number of activities were revised a number of times in order to solve the emerging technical problems that
occurred during the implementation of the project, and in order to increase the geothermal heat generation
capacity of the plant, thus ensuring EG's status as a reliable heat supplier.

At different stages during project implementation, additional works and new equipment had to be procured.
The inclusion of these additional items was agreed with country and sector management, and could be
implemented without amending the Project's legal documents.


                                                       - 5 -

New injection well: Unexpected, low hydrological flow potential at the first, drilled injection well
necessitated the establishment of an additional injection well. The flow rate in the new well is very high,
and now provides most of the required injection capacity. Together with the first well, the injection
capacity is sufficient.

Geothermal flow line to new injection well. The flow line for used geothermal water had to be extended to
include the new injection well.

Hot water boilers. At the time of project preparation, it was agreed that driving heat needed to run EG's
absorption heat pumps would come from the district heating system's Eastern Boiler House. During project
implementation however, KE decided to stop running the Eastern Boiler House during the summer given
the low demand for heat. In order to ensure that EG would be able to operate during the summer, a steam
boiler was installed.

Later on during project implementation, the decision was taken to oversize the geothermal plant's boiler
capacity to ensure that EG would always be able to produce the full amount of heat (using natural gas)
should technical problems arise with the extraction of geothermal heat. As such, three hot water boilers
were installed at EG. The decision to oversize the boilers was prudent in retrospect, since KE closed down
the Eastern Boiler House in 2002 given over capacity of heat supply in the city of around 230 MW per
year (approximately 40% over capacity). The Eastern Boiler House's pumps and pipes are still operational.
Instead of using the boilers only in the summer, EG now uses them throughout the year to provide the
required driving heat for the absorption pumps. The oversized boilers are not being run to their full
capacity given the cost of natural gas, but have the potential to produce more heat if necessary in order to
guarantee EG's role as a primarily supplier of heat.

Heat exchangers and economizers for boilers. Heat exchangers were installed in the event that the
geothermal part of the plant would not be able to function and the majority or all of the heat would have to
be provided by the boilers using natural gas. Economizers were also installed to collect waste heat from the
boilers in order to improve the efficiency of the hot water boilers by extracting about 2 to 4.5 MW from
exhaust gases, thus increasing the overall heating capacity of the geothermal plant.

Sewage pipes and storage tanks. While the geothermal plant operates as a closed system, water must be
discharged after temporary plant stoppages (testing, power cuts) to flush out the system. During project
implementation, a new environmental law came into force in Lithuania, limiting discharges of highly saline
waters. To comply with the rate of flow discharge specified in the law, two storage tanks were built (one at
the first production well and one at the second injection well). Water in these tanks is tested for quality and
then if it cannot be injected to the aquifer, it is discharged via sewage pipelines that have been constructed.

Heat accumulation tank. In order to increase the geothermal heat capacity of the plant, an accumulation
tank was added to the project. It was installed to compensate for daily variations in heat and hot water
demand and enable full use of geothermal energy during summer months. EG operates approximately 6
months of the year on a summer schedule, providing 25 MW of heat to the district heating system, of which
about 9 MW is geothermal heat.

Clean-up of injection well filters. Gradually reduced geothermal water injection capacity was experienced
in both injection wells at the time of start-up of the plant in 2000/2001. Inspections using video camera in
late 2001 revealed seriously clogged screens at the bottom of the injection wells, requiring clean-up. The



                                                        - 6 -

formation of gypsum crystals was finally cited as being responsible for the clogging of the wells. The
clean-up was conducted to full satisfaction during March-April 2002.

Pressure expansion tanks, nitrogen buffers and an inhibitor substance: To be financed by DEPA ($0.3
million) and aimed at solving, by August 2003, the remaining technical problems related to gypsum
crystallization in the geothermal plant and flowline. The funding will also be used to add nitrogen buffers
to prevent oxygen entering the system should a power outage occur. An inhibitor will also be introduced
into the geothermal loop to prevent crystallization in the circulation system. The inhibitor substance has
been reviewed and approved by both the Ministry of Environment and DEPA, and will not have any
impacts on the environment.

The final cost of the Project, including interest during construction and the still pending clean up of the
gypsum crystals currently clogging the geothermal plant's pipelines and absorption heat pumps is US$
17.55 million. (See Annex 2 for more details)

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as "satisfactory". The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time
the project was being prepared. Every effort was made however, to use the best available information on
geothermal resources, knowledge gained from site visits, and the advice of geothermal energy experts, to
ensure the highest level of project design possible. The Project was prepared by an interdisciplinary team
of professionals that included representatives from the GOL, the Government of Denmark, the World Bank,
EG, a Danish consultant group, Klaipedos Energija (KE), and LPC.

The SAR documented the project and its background particularly well and included an assessment of
potential risks. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) included a list of monitoring and evaluation
indicators to guide the project.

In accordance with OD 4.01, the Project was screened and rated as category B. An environmental analysis
was undertaken, which concluded that the Project would not have any significant adverse impact on the
environment. The environmental review provided guidance on the best way to dispose of debris from the
drilling process and safe practices for geothermal water discharge to the sewer system. The suggestions
provided in the environmental analysis were carefully considered during the design and implementation of
the Project.

Some unforeseen risks arose during the course of the project, for example: the need to drill an additional
injection well because of insufficient capacity in the first well and the unwillingness of the Klaipeda district
heating company, after it was placed under the control of the municipality, to pay EG the price stipulated in
the ToP contract agreed with the LPC at the time of the signing of the Loan Agreement.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is marginally satisfactory. Despite significant delays in project
completion, the project achieved all the relevant objectives specified at the time of project appraisal and
achieved satisfactory development results.

Despite the fact that actual geothermal water temperatures are lower than originally expected (38-39°C
compared to 40-42°C), the project has still been successful in extracting a sustainable level of heat and
thus has demonstrated that using low temperature geothermal water as a renewable, indigenous energy



                                                      - 7 -

resource is feasible. However, the plant still has to prove that it can extract heat on continuously, without
being hampered by technical problems.

The latest, and only remaining problem, which must be resolved quickly to avoid the failure of the plant is
related to gypsum crystallization, which has led to serious clogging of equipment and the flow line for
reinjection of geothermal water. At the moment, one of the absorption heat pumps has been taken out of
operation, while the other heat pumps are operating at about 50% of their capacity. If this problem is not
resolved, the plant will no longer be sustainable, and would be regarded as a failure.

During a short period in November 2002, EG was able to operate at its full capacity, and demonstrate in
principle that it is able to extract heat at the expected level from the geothermal water. The delay in
rectifying the gypsum crystallization problem, however, has now caused serious operational problems,
which if left unmitigated will shut down the plant completely. An action plan has been presented by the
Danish consultant (DONG) to rectify the problem. The plant includes clean-up of the whole system
(geothermal plant and flow line) and installation of an inhibitor system to prevent future gypsum
crystallization.

Although the plant has operated satisfactorily for a relatively short period, the plant has proven its capacity
to provide 41 MW of heat (41% from geothermal heat and 59% from boilers running on natural gas) to the
district heating system, representing about 12% of Klaipeda's current heat demand (350 MW). It was
expected at the time of project appraisal that the geothermal plant would provide 530 TJ, equal to 10% of
the city's heat demand. However, a reduction in demand for heat (was 5600 TJ per year in 1994),
combined with network efficiency improvements and a higher than expected heat output from the
geothermal plant, have increased the percentage of Klaipeda's heat demand that EG is able to supply. If the
installed boilers were operated at their maximum capacity during the winter season, EG's total capacity
would be 68 MW, consisting of 17 MW geothermal energy, 48 MW from natural gas and 3 MW from
economizers extracting energy from the stack gases.

While not all the heat produced by EG is from geothermal energy, its natural gas boilers are more efficient
than KE's (96.5% compared to 85%). Overall, the heat supplied from the geothermal plant has reduced the
amount of natural gas and heavy fuel oil used for heating. Based on a supply of 270,000 MWh, the
reduction in fuel consumption at KE is about 14.5 M m of natural gas or about 13,170 tons of mazut. This
                                                            3


decline in the use of fossil fuels corresponds to a reduction of 46,000 tons CO , 2,100 tons of SO , and 75
                                                                                 2                  2
tons of NO emissions if mazut is replaced, and 33,500 tons CO and 94 tons of NO if natural gas is
            x                                                       2                  x
replaced, with associated, positive benefits to the local, regional and global environments. It should be
noted that the use of natural gas at the geothermal plant in order to generate the driving heat to the heat
pumps actually reduces the CO emission at the boiler house due to a higher efficiency at the geothermal
                                  2
plant's boilers. These figures are slightly below expected output, but the difference is actually less than
would have been expected as the plant is now only operating at 50% during the summer season, due to
lower heat demand as a result of KE's planning. The project has also demonstrated sustainable
management principles and showed that it is possible to develop environmentally sound renewable and
non-polluting sources of energy.

During project preparation, there was a discussion of including a component in the project to help improve
the efficiency of the district heating system. While this component was not included in the project,
discussions about the financial benefits of improving heat efficiency have influenced KE to use its own
resources to improve the efficiency its operations. As of the end of 2002, about 11% of KE's sub-stations
had been modified, and the temperature of outgoing district heating water reduced from 130 to 120°C.



                                                        - 8 -

These actions have resulted in lower temperatures of return water to EG, which are now below 40°C,
approximately 5 degrees less than assumed at appraisal. Continued improvements in the district heating
system will result in a further reduction of the return temperature, enabling EG to extract even higher
amounts of geothermal energy.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall the project has established a framework for the:
· Long-term sustainable operation of the Klaipeda geothermal plant, which is providing heat to Klaipeda
and the Free Economic Zone (FEZ) that has
  been recently established near EG;
· Gradual improvement of air quality in Klaipeda and reduction of GHG emissions, which contribute to
global climate change; and
· Demonstration of the potential for adopting environmentally friendly methods of supplying energy in
Lithuania.

Investment Component

Underground system
- 2 production and 2 injection wells drilled
- Submersible brine pumps for the production wells and 4 brine pumps at the surface level (2 per well) for
the injection wells installed - flow capacity of injection wells is 600 m /h as was foreseen at the time of
                                                                         3


project appraisal

Above ground system
- Buried geothermal heat and water loop flowlines (4 kilometers long in total) built connecting production
and injection wells to plant and plant to KE district heating system
- Geothermal plant building, office, housing for injection facilities and pump station
- Sewage tanks and sewage pipeline
- Heat accumulation tank
- Circulation pumps (district loop and accumulator)

Plant equipment
- Absorption heat pumps (four with 41 MW combined capacity at flow rate of 600 m /h and temperature of
                                                                                        3


38°C)
- Boilers (3 with combined capacity of 48 MW)
- Heat exchangers and economizers for boilers
- Equipment for control and regulation of the plant including: SCADA computerized system (power and
optical cable installation connecting plant to wells), heat pumps, external boilers, electrical installations and
filters, valves and internal piping

Other equipment to be provided and financed under an additional grant from DEPA
- Pressure expansion tanks and nitrogen buffers
- Inhibitor dosage equipment to prevent gypsum crystallization

In addition to installation of equipment, the investment component of the project also financed the clean-up
of gypsum crystals responsible for clogging the injection wells.




                                                      - 9 -

Technical Assistance and Training Component
- Geothermal loop designed, including all equipment necessary for heat extraction and transfer
- Detailed drilling, testing and completion programs prepared
- Staff and management of KE trained in Lithuania
- Project implementation support - bidding and tender documents, construction supervision
- Training manual produced

The training component of the Project helped to develop the technical and management skills of EG's
employees. The plant staff now have the knowledge and skills required to operate the plant and provide
heat to KE and the FEZ. EG also now has the experience needed to implement its business plan, which
includes providing reliable and environmentally friendly heat supply to Klaipeda's district heating system
and to businesses in the city's new FEZ. One heat supply contract has already been signed with the FEZ
and it is expected that business will expand as more companies are established in the FEZ in the future.
EG can also now draw on its experience with the demonstration plant in Klaipeda to focus on future
aspects of its business plan, including the expansion of geothermal energy activities in Lithuania where this
is economically and financially feasible. The MOE has recently expressed a strong interest for further
geothermal plants in Lithuania, and EG's experience would be of great value. In addition, EG has plans to
use geothermal water for medicinal purposes by possibly establishing a spa adjacent to the already drilled
Vidmantai wells, which it owns, near Palanga.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Project Benefit
The benefit to the environment in this project is significant because it reduces CO , SO , NO and TPM
                                                                                   2     2     x
emissions by replacing natural gas and mazut with an alternative and renewable source of energy. The
annual benefit from reduced emissions would be US$ 1.6 million if mazut were replaced, and US$ 0.3
million if natural gas were replaced, assuming that EG reaches its full operational capacity. (see Table 3)



Table 3 Annual emission reductions and benefits from lower mazut and natural gas use
                      Annual emission reduction (ton)              Annual benefits (million US$)
   Scenario         CO2        SO2       NOx       TPM      Emission reduction     Energy efficiency
   Mazut          45,956      2,101       75        30               1.6                    1.6
   Natural gas    33,469                  94                         0.3                    1.1



Cost savings because of higher energy efficiency can also contribute to the benefit. Both mazut and natural
gas are used in the heating system in Klaipeda, and their prices determined by the free market. The
efficiency of KE's mazut boilers is around 80%, and the efficiency of its natural gas boilers is about 85%.
The efficiency of EG's boilers is 97-98%. The annual benefit in terms of cost savings from higher energy
efficiency associated with using geothermal heat is US$ 1.6 million if mazut is replaced, and US$ 1.1
million if natural gas is replaced. These benefits will be positive when the mazut price is higher than US$
86/ton and natural gas prices are higher than US$78/1000 m . Given that the current mazut price is about
                                                               3


US$ 140/ton and natural gas is US$ 115/1000 m , the project is very beneficial from an economic
                                                   3


standpoint.

Assuming that the future development of geothermal energy resources in Lithuania would be undertaken



                                                     - 10 -

without the need for driving heat from natural gas, the benefit would be even higher because geothermal
heat can contribute more to both emissions reduction and energy efficiency.

In both the ICR and SAR, it is assumed that the environmental benefits from reducing pollutants (or the
pollution costs) are: US $600/ton for SO ; US $250/ton for NO ; US $1000/ton for particulate matter; and
                                          2                       x
US $7/ton for CO (US $25.7/ton for carbon). It is also assumed that the current difficulties with the plant
                   2
will be resolved in 2003 and that the plant at the start of the heating season in October 2003 will reach its
full heat generation capacity.

4.3.2 NPV and ERR
In comparison with mazut, the project NPV is US$ 6.4 million and the ERR is 14.8%. In comparison with
natural gas, the project NPV is negative US$ 5.2 million and ERR is 4.7%. The economic NPV (at 10%
discount rate) and the ERR are calculated with 1996 as the base year, which is the year the SAR was
approved and the year the project started. The exchange rates between the US dollar and Lithuania Lita
are taken as the average annual rates. Details are shown in Table 4.

Based on the current fossil fuel prices, future, successor geothermal projects producing 146, 880 MWh of
geothermal heat annually without driving heat from natural gas could result in an ERR of 17% compared
with projects using mazut, or 10% compared with projects using natural gas. The investment cost of a
future geothermal plant is assumed to be 75% of the investment cost of the Klaipeda demonstration plant.



Table 4 Economic NPV(million US$) and ERR
                 ICR               SAR           Differences between ICR and SAR        Future plant

Comparing with projects using Mazut
NPV               6.4                2.2                          4.2
ERR             14.8%             11.6%                          3.2%                       17%
Comparing with projects using Natural Gas
NPV              (5.2)              (4.1)                        (1.1)
ERR              4.7%              6.6%                         -1.9%                       10%




Most of the differences between the NPV and ERR calculations in the ICR and SAR can be explained by
changes made to the Project's components during implementation. One of the most significant changes was
the addition of natural gas boilers to provide the driving heat needed to run the plant's absorption heat
pumps. As a result, the total annual heat production increased to 270,800 MWh, estimated at only
147,234 MWh (530,000 GJ) in the SAR. Forty-one percent of the total heat generated by the plant is from
the geothermal water, while the rest (59%) is from natural gas (see Chart 1).




                                                     - 11 -

                                 Chart 1 Heat production


                                                                   SAR Estimated heat
            300000                                                 production, MWh
            250000
            200000                                                 ICR Total heat
                                                                   production, MWh
      (MWh) 150000
            100000                                                 ICR Geothermal heat
      Heat   50000
                 0                                                 ICR Driving heat


                 1999  2001    2003    2005   2007
                                   Year




The difference between the expected and actual amounts of heat extracted from the geothermal water
(lower in the ICR), is due to the fact that KE decided during the implementation phase to reduce demand
from its Eastern Boiler House during the summer time, which was not anticipated at appraisal.

When considering environmental benefits from the geothermal project versus a plant using mazut for its
energy supply, both the NPV and ERR are higher at the time of the ICR than in the SAR. The reason is
that both geothermal energy and natural gas contribute benefits in terms of lower emissions, more so than
mazut. However, when the geothermal plant is compared to a plant using natural gas, only 41% of the
heat is provided from geothermal energy, resulting in an environmental benefit by reducing CO and NO
                                                                                               2        x
emissions. The NPV and ERR are both lower than estimated in the SAR.

The detailed economic analysis for the Project is shown in Annex 3.

4.3.3 Sensitivity analysis
Table 5 shows a sensitivity analysis based on varying levels of mazut and natural gas prices. The prices for
mazut and natural gas are positively correlated with the ERR and NPV. The higher the price, the higher
the ERR and NPV. In comparison with a scenario where the plant uses mazut, NPVs are positive
throughout all the possible range of mazut prices, and ERRs are very likely higher than 15%.

In comparison with plants using natural gas, the NPVs, on the other hand, are negative. The current
natural gas price (April 2003) is about US$ 110-120/1000 m . If the price is lower than US$ 100, the
                                                               3


project cannot break even. All natural gas in Klaipeda is imported from Russia, but Russia is decreasing its
exports to Klaipeda. For this reason, the natural gas price may not go down in the short run unless
Klaipeda can find other, lower priced sources for its natural gas imports. It is worthwhile mentioning that
natural gas used at another Bank financed geothermal project in Poland costs about US$ 200/1000 m .  3




                                                    - 12 -

        Table 5 Sensitivity analysis
                In comparison with mazut                 In comparison with natural gas
               Price of         NPV                       NG Price       NPV
            Mazut($/ton)     (000US$)       ERR           ($/000M3)    (000US$)      ERR
                 110            981         11%               80       (11,175)         -
                 120           2,785        12%               90        (9,183)      -2%
                 130           4,588        14%              100        (7,191)       2%
                 140           6,392        15%              110        (5,200)       5%
                 150           8,195        16%              120        (3,208)       7%
                 160           9,999        17%              130        (1,216)       9%



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No attempt was made at project appraisal to calculate either a financial internal rate of return (FIRR), or a
net present value (NPV) on the free cash flow (FCF) from 2000 onwards; a re-constitution of these
calculations has now been carried out.

On the basis of the project's investments and the operating forecasts for the enterprise (both contained in
the appraisal report) the calculation of the FIRR and the NPV for the project give the following results:

FIRR    over 25 years, positive 0.49% (over 20 years the value is ­0.55%)
NPV     of the FCF at 10% is positive at US$ 8.38M (LTL 33.52 M) over 25 years, and positive at US$
8.04M (LTL 32.16M) over 20 years.

The FIRR and NPV calculations for the completed project are based, on the cost side, on the realized
investments, capitalized interest and commitment fee payments, and capitalized administrative expenses as
per the audited accounts. The operating and overhead costs are as calculated in the most recent financial
projection. On the benefit side are the sales of heat, as per the financial projection, and a terminal value of
the investment of 10%.

The results of the calculations are as follows:

FIRR    positive 3.46% over 25 years (+1.44% over 20 years)
NPV     of the FCF at 10% is positive at US$ 7.7M (LTL 30.8M) over 25 years, and positive at US$ 6.7M
(LTL 26.8M) over 20 years

The comparison of the two sets of calculations shows that the realized project, assuming it will operate
successfully from 2003 onwards, has a higher FIRR compared to the appraised project, while the NPV
indicators are somewhat lower, but still largely positive.

A further FIRR and NPV calculation has been carried out on the cost/benefit streams by eliminating the
GEF grant financing. The resulting FIRR increases from 3.46% in the base case to 7.76% without the GEF
financing over 25 years; calculated over 20 years the figures are 1.44% and 6.18% respectively. The NPV
indicators remain identical, as they are measured from the year 2000 onwards, after the GEF grant had
been entirely disbursed.

4.4.1 Cash Flow Projections:
The SAR for this project contained a cash flow analysis, which showed that EG would operate at a loss,



                                                    - 13 -

but have positive operating income; that is it would have a positive cash flow after adding back the
depreciation and the debt service ratio would remain above 1.00.

The cash flow projection for the completed project, using actual figures for the years 2001 and 2002, and
based on the most likely production and price parameters, shows that EG had negative net operational
margins during 2001 and 2002, which are forecast to remain negative in 2003 but turn positive from 2004
onwards. When adding in financial charges, however, the operational results are negative from 2001 until
the year 2008. To ease the financial strain on the company, GOL has agreed to cover loan repayment
during 2001 until 2004.

Overall, cash flows (after adding back the depreciation) will be positive throughout, while the debt service
ratio, after the initial years, will be well above 2.00.

4.4.2 Conclusion:
The completed project has a better financial performance than estimated at appraisal. Due to the
unexpected production delays and the lower than agreed heat prices paid by KE, the company is
experiencing temporary financial problems. This has resulted in operational losses for the years 2001 and
2002, as well as a projected loss for 2003. For the future it has been assumed that no further production
problems will occur and that heat prices will increase to levels set by the State Commission. On that basis
the company will become profitable from 2008 onwards and will be able to service the loan from the Bank
without any problems. The company's cash flow after loan repayment will be positive from 2004 and
onwards. If, however, the plant's gypsum crystallization problem is not resolved to allow the plant to be
fully operational, the financial analysis shows that the plant is not sustainable. If the technical issues are
resolved, it should also be mentioned that the plant can generate more heat than currently requested by KE.
An increase in the development of new industries within the FEZ would give EG other customers to which
it could sell its excess heat, thus strengthening EG's financial situation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional capacity building undertaken during project implementation primarily benefitted EG. As a
result of the project, EG became an independent, closed, joint-stock company operating under commercial
law. The technical assistance and training component of the project provided strong support to the
management of EG throughout project implementation. Assistance was provided for the preparation of
tender documents and for supervision of construction works. Staff and management received training on
how to operate a similar geothermal plant in Thisted, Denmark. This training helped to simplify the
transfer of geothermal technology to the Klaipeda plant. A plant operation manual was prepared for staff
and management in Klaipeda to help them properly manage the plant, and identify and solve problems
encountered during operation.

On a broader scale, the project transferred knowledge and skills on how to run a geothermal plant. The
know how gained from the project can now be used in Lithuania by EG to expand geothermal energy
operations in the future where economically feasible. The GOL will also now have resources on which to
draw, should it wish to pursue the further development of geothermal resources to increase Lithuania's
energy security. In fact, the Project has had a direct impact on the Draft Law on Heating, now under
review by the Parliament. The Law is worded in such a way that it promotes the use and development of
renewable energy resources. Furthermore, it specifically proposes that district heating companies be
obliged to buy available heat produced from renewable energy sources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome




                                                      - 14 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Unexpected technical issues outside the control of the government or implementing agency. Major
technical difficulties included the need to: drill a second injection well, install boilers at the plant to provide
the necessary driving heat to the absorption heat pumps given the closure of the Eastern Boiler House
during the summer, resolve regulator pump problems for the production wells, cleanup the injection wells
due to clogging of the sand filters in the aquifer zone, and address gypsum crystallization problems in the
geothermal plant system. Closures of the district heating plant for maintenance have also interrupted the
operation of the geothermal plant.

The plant continues to face a serious problem with gypsum crystallization in the equipment and flow line.
It could be debated whether or not this problem could have been identified at an earlier stage, when the
geothermal water was analyzed, and thereby avoided. Similar problems were identified more than 25 years
ago in Slovakia, and mitigated successfully. It is clear, however that without resolving this urgent problem,
the plant will never be financially sustainable, and the Project will be regarded as a failure. From a
technical perspective, the problem can be resolved, and DEPA recently approved US$ 0.3 million in
financing to remedy the situation.

Design issues. During the procurement of heat pumps, the technical staff at EG raised the question of
choice of heat pump technology, and a CIDA financed Global Environment TF was secured in 1997 to
study the comparative cost effectiveness of electrical compressor heat pumps versus the planned use of
absorption heat pumps. The study, completed in August 1997, concluded that absorption heat pump
technology, which was proposed at appraisal, would be more cost effective than electrical heat pump
technology. The cost for the heat pumps was well below that estimated at the time of project preparation,
freeing up financing for other project activities, both unforeseen and added to further increase the plant's
heat capacity.

Refusal of KE to honor Take or Pay Contract: In 1999, LPC sold KDHE to the Municipality of Klaipeda,
changing the name of the district heating system to SPAB Klaipedos Energija (KE). Even though obliged
to pay in accordance with the ToP contract, the new owner of the district heating system did not want to
honor the original ToP contract, paying EG only 40 LTL/MWh (from March to October 2001) instead of
the LTL 54/MWh that it should have according to the price formula included in the contract. In September
2000, the Managing Director of EG signed a temporary new contract with KE. The price paid by KE to
EG only rose to LTL 46/MWh in November 2001 and will not rise further until certification for the
geothermal plant as a reliable energy supplier is received from the State Commission. KE has stated that it
will not pay the full LTL 54/MWh (which has also now been confirmed as fair by a Presidential price
commission controlling all sales prices of power, heat and water) until the geothermal plant has received
certification as a reliable heat supplier (producing heat and constantly supplying heat to the consumer
except for temporary stops for maintenance) from a State Commission under the Ministry of Economy.
Currently KE is only buying 25 MW of energy from EG in the summer even though it can supply 40 MW.
KE feels that heat supply from EG is currently not reliable and therefore is obtaining the remaining 15 MW
from Pajurio Mediena (burning of wood chips) and Klaipedos Baltica (furniture manufacturer contributing
a small amount of heat through the burning of wood). EG can back up its geothermal heat production with
its gas boilers, but this would not be financially sustainable in the longer perspective if KE continues to pay
only LTL 46/MWh.

The State Commission consists of 10-15 people, including an employee of KE. The Commission will not
certify the plant until EG has resolved its remaining technical problem (gypsum crystallization) and can
supply heat reliably. EG can actually already supply heat at full capacity using its boilers which run on
natural gas. The Commission, however appears to be certifying the plant according to the reliability of


                                                       - 15 -

only its geothermal supply capacity, given that the plant was built to produce geothermal heat. EG believes
that it will be able to solve its remaining technical issues and obtain certification by mid-2003, whereupon
it should be able to receive 54 LTL/MWh for the heat it supplies. It seems that the State Commission may
have been overly stringent, requesting very minor changes from EG, such as erecting a sign to identify the
plant.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government commitment. GOL in general met its obligations under the Loan Agreement (Article 3.01) in
providing counterpart funding, although the transfers were not always executed on schedule. The
Government is now covering EG's loan repayment obligations until it is financially viable and capable of
repaying from its own resources.

Overly stringent regulations. At the time of project appraisal, no regulation existed in Lithuania for the
discharge of saline waters. During project implementation however, new environmental regulations came
into force limiting the amount of saline water that EG could dispose in a given time period. As such,
storage tanks and a separate pipeline had to be built for used, saline geothermal water. The low discharge
rate (1.5 m /h) means that water in the tank (2000 m ) cannot be emptied very quickly. Had the regulation
             3                                          3


been established earlier on in the project, a settling pond, with a much larger volume, would have been built
instead of storage tanks.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Auditing and accounting. Despite the lack of training in formal International Accounting Standards (IAS),
EG's accounting practices improved by the end of the project, largely due to efforts during Bank
supervision missions. EG now has a statement of company accounting policies and has established and
documented an internal control system, which will help improve its financial management.

Quality of management. During the early stages of the Project, it became evident that EG needed
managerial assistance to ensure successful, continued project implementation. In order to strengthen the
company's managerial capacity, an advisor was provided using a Flemish TF. The support was of great
help to EG. Quarterly and semi-annual reporting by EG were satisfactory throughout project
implementation. For the majority of the project, the staff of EG (the PIU for the project) remained as
originally constituted. However, in the final year of the Project, the Managing Director was changed. The
new Director is committed to making EG profitable and working very hard together with the staff of the
geothermal plant.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Implementation of the project was delayed by 2.5 years. Technical difficulties, although resolved in the
end, and slow initial preparation of bidding documents for well drilling were the major reasons for the
delay, which required that the loan closing date be extended four times. The extensions were crucial to
ensuring the smooth operation of the plant once commissioned.

The first extension was requested early on in the project because the first round of bids submitted for the
drilling of the wells were not suitable and a new set of tender documents had to be prepared which took
considerable time. The second extension was required to incorporate measures into the Project design to
increase the energy output of the geothermal plant. The third extension was needed to install the 3 hot water
boilers after KE announced it would no longer provide driving heat to EG during the summer. The final
loan extension was connected to the clogging of the injection well filters with gypsum crystals and was
needed to ensure the availability of funds for fracturing, which in the end was not needed; only financing
for the clean-up of the wells was needed. Other factors that delayed the project included: cancellation of



                                                       - 16 -

financing by EU Phare for the construction of the geothermal flowline, the need to drill a second injection
well and delayed installation of the control and regulation system for the plant.

Despite the many delays, primarily caused by the technical difficulties that faced the project, a cost overrun
did not occur. In fact, the project, originally estimated at $18.02 million, finally cost US$ 17.55 million.
In addition, the cost for technical assistance through TFs (Flemish and CIDA) of US$ 77,000 and US$
27,344 respectively should be mentioned. The total cost is therefore US$ 17.65 million. Project savings
are attributable to the lower than estimated cost of the absorption heat pumps. Over US$ 5.0 million in
project savings made it possible to address the many technical difficulties experienced during the course of
the Project, including problems such as the need to drill a second injection well and construct an additional
geothermal flowline to the plant, install hot water boilers, build sewage tanks and lay a sewage pipe,
purchase a spare production well pump motor, and clean-up clogged injection well filters (see Section 3.4
and Annex 2 for greater detail). Project cost savings also made it possible to install additional equipment
(heat exchangers and economizers for the hot water boilers and a heat accumulation tank) to increase the
efficiency, and thus heat extraction capacity of the plant.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated "likely". Environmental sustainability of the project is
highly likely given the renewable nature of geothermal energy. While unexpected technical issues are
largely resolved, a few still remain. Capacity to address technical issues is likely given management and
staff experience gained through training and operation of the plant and new, additional financing obtained
from DEPA. Financial problems pose the most uncertainty with respect to the plant's sustainability.
Explanations for these ratings are given below.

Technical sustainability (Likely)

The majority of the technical issues that delayed the project have been resolved. These technical issues were
unexpected and can be explained to a large extent by the demonstration and pioneer nature of the project.
At the time of project preparation, the idea of using low temperature geothermal energy for heat supply had
never been attempted in Lithuania, and had only been implemented in Scandinavia and Germany. At a
limited number of locations in Europe, use of geothermal water at a temperature of 60-65 °C had been
demonstrated. In fact, the Bank itself had very little involvement worldwide in geothermal projects.

The plant began supplying heat in March 2001. From March 2001 to October 2002, EG provided 238,145
MWh of heat to the district heating system. The plant currently supplies 25 MW of heat in the summer and
40 MW in the winter. During this time (March 2001 to October 2002), the plant was stopped three times
for installation of equipment, clean-up of injection wells and maintenance at KE. The majority of technical
start-up problems have now been resolved. However, a remaining major technical issue, which is
preventing EG from producing at its full capacity, involves the formation of gypsum crystals in the plant's
pipes, valves and absorption heat pumps. This problem should be resolved by mid-2003 with grant
financing of approximately US$ 0.3 million from DEPA. The proposal is to mechanically clean the plant
equipment and flow line, and inject an inhibitor substance (called Dequest 2060S) into the system to
prevent the future formation of gypsum crystals. Once this has been done, a certain amount of the
substance will be injected on a continuous basis to prevent a reoccurrence of the problem. The choice of
inhibitor has been carefully reviewed by both the Lithuanian Ministry of Environment, the Regional
Environmental Protection Board in Klaipeda, and DEPA. A lot of review work was carried out and the
inhibitor was finally declared acceptable from an environmental point of view.



                                                      - 17 -

Financial sustainability (Likely)

Price for EGs heat
The price that EG is able to obtain for the heat it supplies will definitely be a limiting factor in terms of its
financial sustainability. Currently, it only receives LTL 46/MWh from KE. EG is trying to solve its
remaining technical issues so that it can be certified as a reliable heat supplier by the State Commission
under the MOE, which is reviewing the plant. Once EG is certified, it is expected KE will have to honor
the price of LTL 54/MWh specified in the ToP contract and the Presidential price commission that controls
power, heat and water prices. EG also appealed to the courts to make KE pay the price agreed in the ToP
contract, but has not been successful.

The new Heat Law that the GOL is in the process of passing should also help EG to obtain a higher price
for its heat and create greater demand for heat produced from renewable energy. The Law will stipulate
that renewable energy be used and developed as much as possible. It will also establish guidelines to
regulate the relationship among heat suppliers and set conditions for the purchase of heat from alternative
sources of energy. It is expected that the Law will come into effect in mid-2003. The Law should help to
reduce the monopoly control that KE currently has over heat supply (buying energy from EG at 4.6
LTL/kWh and making a huge profit selling it at 10.69 LTL/kWh) and increase the price that EG can obtain
for the heat it sells.

Demand for EG's heat
The likelihood is that the plant will never operate at its full installed heat capacity (48 MW), at least not in
the short to medium term due to current technical limitations of the district heating system. The district
heating plant (KE) can only use 25 MW of EG's energy in the summer and only 40 MW in the winter
(although the new Heat Law might force KE to buy more heat from EG). The only way that EG will be
able to increase demand for its heat is if it signs more contracts with new companies (20 can be
accommodated in the FEZ) that plan to establish themselves in the FEZ or if KE adjusts its system so that
it can receive more heat from EG. EG's price for heat is far below that of KE's, making it attractive to the
companies in the FEZ. It has already signed one contract with JSC Espersen, a fish processing plant.
While JSC Espersen only requires 0.8 MW of heat, it will pay LTL 85/MWh.

Construction of a pipeline linking EG to the FEZ (being paid for by UAB Ukmerges Energiya (UE)) is
complete. UE will sell the heat to industries being established in the FEZ. At the moment, the pipeline's
capacity is 8 MW, which could take at least 10 years to reach.

Price of fossil fuels
EG's future financial sustainability also depends to a large degree on fossil fuel prices. The higher the
prices for mazut and natural gas, the better EG's financial outlook. Russia is the main supplier of gas and
mazut, and it is expected that the prices within a three year period will be in par with international prices,
which makes it very likely that the current price level will sustain.

Committed management and staff
In the past year, Geoterma's director changed. The new director has more practical experience in running a
heat generation plant since he worked for the Klaipeda district heating system. He seems committed to
making the geothermal plant financially viable and is committed to pressing KE to honor the price
agreement made in the ToP contract. In addition, EG's staff, as a result of extensive training, now have the
knowledge required to run the plant.




                                                     - 18 -

Environmental sustainability (Highly Likely)

Use of geothermal energy from the Klaipeda plant reduces CO , SO , NO and TPM emissions that would
                                                                  2     2    x
otherwise enter the atmosphere if the geothermal plant did not exist and fossil fuels were burned to generate
heat. Geothermal energy is renewable. If properly run and technically sound, the plant can operate for
many years with minimal stoppages, providing a environmentally clean and sustainable source of heat. (see
Annex 3 for graphs showing the reduction of emissions over time as a result of heat production at the
geothermal plant). However, the environmental achievement is clearly dependent on resolution of the
current technical problem, which is regarded as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Use of existing Vidmantai wells
The Vidmantai wells that were given to EG at the start of the project by LPC as their contribution to the
share value of the project, were thought to be unproductive since they are capped. However, geothermal
water in these deeper these wells (68°C) seems to have the potential to be used for medicinal purposes.
EG's Director is interested in trying to support the efforts to establish a spa resort in Palanga using the
geothermal water from these wells. If so, the wells could have a clear positive impact on EG's financial
sustainability.

Construction of new geothermal plants
The potential for expansion of geothermal energy in Lithuania in the future may be possible given the EU's
renewable energy requirement of 12%. Lithuania will probably aim/be able to achieve 7%. This will
depend, of course, on the specific economic and financial sustainability of any given plant. Further
geothermal plants will likely only be justified in areas where the population is greater than 50,000. While
the cost of building new plants will not be as high as it was for Klaipeda given the know how and lessons
learned from the demonstration plant, there is still a significant cost involved, especially for drilling the
wells. Furthermore, more than 50% of the investment in the case of Klaipeda was in the form of grant
financing, which will likely not be available for future plants. However, in view of the increasing price of
fossil fuels, and Russia's intention to adjust those prices, the establishment of new geothermal projects in
Lithuania should become more competitive and result in financially sustainable operations. An increase in
the tariff is more than likely to happen, as all the DH companies now are becoming more aware of cost
recovery and tariff collection than in the past. It is clear from this project that generation of heat from
geothermal water in Klaipeda is more cost effective than using fossil fuels, despite the fact that a
substantial cost reduction could have been achieved if the Project had been implemented in a different way,
and a number of unforeseen costs been avoided through better planning and supervision.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory. The Project
was prepared in response to a request from the GOL, which, in turn, committed itself to explore the
country's existing renewable geothermal resources on the basis of results from the Baltic Geothermal
Energy Study (BGES). The Project was identified, prepared and appraised in close cooperation with the
Government and potential donors. The Bank's team included a mix of environmental, technical, economic,
financial and procurement specialists with extensive knowledge of the energy sector and Bank operations.
The team was comprised of headquarter and field-based staff with good knowledge of local conditions.




                                                      - 19 -

Several risks were identified during appraisal: (a) lower than expected temperature of the geothermal water;
(b) lower than expected flow of geothermal water; (c) delayed implementation due to limited administrative
capacity in Lithuania for development of a new energy resource; (d) delayed installation of needed boiler
capacity in the event KE would not provide the required level of heat to drive the absorption heat pumps;
and (e) reduced world market prices for fossil fuels.

These were well-predicted risks and most of them were encountered during the various phases of
implementation; however in close cooperation with partners, including the Government and the Bank team,
the Project implementation was able to mitigate the emerging problems.

Reduced heat demand during the summer period was not identified as a risk, as at the time for appraisal,
KE was ready to buy EG's base load of more than 40MW needed to produce hot water for Klaipeda during
the summer. Also the reduced sales price for generated heat was not foreseen, as it was assumed the signed
and agreed ToP contract fairly and clearly indicated a price based on actual market prices for fossil fuels.
Yet, in reality, KE did not abide by the contract.

During preparation, appraisal, and implementation, the Bank had a very close relationship with the only
donor involved, the Government of Denmark, whose representatives participated in every mission. The
Bank team had an important role in resolving problems between the donor representatives and the
implementing agency.

The Project is fully consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies valid at the time of appraisal, and was
placed in the "B" environmental screening category.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory.

Supervision missions visited Klaipeda regularly at 6 month intervals or less. Between missions, continuous
implementation support was provided from both the Bank's Washington and Vilnius offices. During the
active supervision period, the Bank team remained constant, as did the consultant team provided by the
Danish Government.

At the beginning of the Project, a short term consultant supported by the Flemish Government provided
managerial support to EG, including providing advice to EG on financial, institutional development, and
procurement issues.

The Bank exercised considerable flexibility with respect to Project implementation, allowing 4 extensions
of the Project's closing date, enabling EG to cope with all the plant's unforeseen technical problems and
achieve the original Project objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. Preparation and supervision were closely coordinated with
the co-financier, which enabled emerging problems to be resolved satisfactorily. At the same time. the
Bank remained firm on critical issues, thus ensuring satisfactory donor follow-up on technical issues and
appropriate Government intervention on management and contract compliance issues.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the



                                                     - 20 -

Government and the beneficiaries remained highly committed to the Project, as they saw it as an
opportunity to reduce the country's dependence on imported fossil fuels and also a possibility to meet their
international commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Ministry of Energy, and later Ministry of Economy, budgeted adequate counterpart resources for
Project implementation. However, for a short period, the MOE did not provide enough financial support to
EG in order to cover operational expenses, as agreed in the Loan Agreement. During the final years of the
Project, however, the MOE has shown strong support and taken full responsibility to assure that EG could
continue to pay its staff and cover operational expenses during the period of the plant's reduced capacity,
when technical problems reduced revenues. In addition, MOE agreed to cover the repayment of the Bank
loan up to 2004, to ease the financial burden on EG. Borrower performance during implementation was
satisfactory.

Both the Municipality of Klaipeda and KE showed considerable interest in the Project during its
preparation, but after the municipality took over the district heating company, its interest changed
dramatically. First of all, there was a decision made to alter the use of the Eastern Boiler House, resulting
in: (a) no provision for driving heat during the summer period when the boiler house would be shut down,
and (b) an overall reduction in the need for energy to produce hot water during the summer period.
Secondly, KE no longer acknowledged the agreed ToP contract, paying only a reduced amount for the heat
provided. Hence the performance of the municipality and KE is rated as unsatisfactory, as KE's original
agreements were included as part of the basis for the Project's economic and financial justification.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
EG showed at all times a strong interest and commitment in ensuring the success of the Project, and
effectively used its contacts with owners (the mother company LPC and the MOE) to reach Project
objectives. However, due to its lack of experience with the chosen absorption heat pump technology, the
implementation of the Project was delayed at one point by a technical dispute. The subsequent debate
resulted in a clear justification of the chosen technology and, perhaps, a better understanding of the
technology, but the debate halted the project implementation for about six months. The recent change in
management, has created a more dynamic approach for the implementation of the business plan.

As part of Project financing, the Danish Government provided technical assistance through a consultant
company, that was responsible for detailed design, preparation of bidding documents, and supervision
during the physical implementation of the Project. This support did not live up to expectations and has
caused considerable delay in the implementation, as well delays in rectifying design problems. It is very
clear that these delays resulted in financial losses for EG, and contributed to the reluctance by the State
Commission to certify the geothermal plant. Due to these aspects, the rating of the implementing agency is
unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The Implementing Agency's overall
performance has been rated as unsatisfactory due to the poor performance of the consultant responsible for
detailed design, supervision and technical assistance during Project implementation. In view of EG's quite
and GOL's quite satisfactory performance, the overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The project was in many ways of a pioneer nature given that this was the first geothermal project
undertaken in Lithuania and one of the first geothermal projects funded by the Bank. Many lessons have


                                                      - 21 -

been learned from this demonstration project. The Borrower, implementing agency, Bank, cofinanciers and
consultants involved in the project have gained a wealth of knowledge related to design and implementation
of geothermal projects. This new knowledge can now be used for the future development of geothermal
resources not only in Lithuania, but more broadly in the ECA region and at a global level, where the
development of alternative energy sources will become increasingly more important as greater efforts are
made to find solutions to the growing problem of climate change.

Major positive lessons learned from the project
The Project has demonstrated:
-    possibilities for using low temperature-based geothermal energy in Lithuania and elsewhere where it is
available;
-    the potential for the development and construction of geothermal energy plants in other locations in
Lithuania;
-    opportunities for using geothermal energy for other purposes, for example health care, medicine,
tourism, relaxation etc.;
-    that the cost price of heat energy produced in a geothermal plant is lower than traditionally produced
heat; and
-    that heat produced in a geothermal plant can substitute for the use of large amounts of fossil fuels, and
contribute to reduced GHG emissions, thereby having a clear and positive effect on the global environment.

Major negative lessons learned from the project
The Project has encountered several problems, which to a certain extent could have been avoided:
-    Wrong location of the first injection well. The site was proposed by the local authorities in Klaipeda,
although EG preferred another location. EG should have been more insistent during the decision making
process, thereby avoiding the unforeseen additional cost for a second injection well;
-    Insufficient analysis of geothermal water. A more prudent analysis may have discovered the gypsum
problem, and the now proposed mitigation measures then could have been included in the Project design;
-    Control of the water flow and temperature should have been done at time of drilling the wells, instead
of when the equipment was delivered;
-    More intensive supervision and technical assistance by the Danish consultant during Project
implementation could have reduced the time needed for start up and solving technical problems;
-    Demand forecasts for the overall heat needs of Klaipeda were over estimated, following the conversion
to a market economy. As in the case of water demand, experts failed to anticipate the drop in use once the
meters were installed and customers were required to pay for heat. The fixed price in the ToP contract may
not be the lowest that KE can obtain for heat, but given that the sales price for heat in Klaipeda is more
than 100% above the purchase price for geothermal heat, KE could afford to pay the price specified by the
formula in the ToP contract without impacting end users. Moreover, the price for geothermal heat is less
than KE's production cost;
-    Less interest on KE's part in the potential use of geothermal heat. KE has continuously used the
situation of the geothermal plant not being certified by the state commission as a reason to pay a price
below the ToP contract. Involving the district heating company more from the beginning would have been
the most logical solution. The geothermal plant could have been part of KE, and just been regarded as one
of its heat generation units. However, at the time of Project preparation, all the district heating companies
in Lithuania were part of the LPC. Moreover, the LPC was virtually bankrupt due to large losses caused
by the many district heating companies belonging to it, and therefore such a solution was not accepted by
the Bank. A choice was made not to pursue including the geothermal plant in KE, first because LPC's
financial situation was extremely strained at the time of project preparation due to the loss making district
heating (DH) enterprises which it owned, and second because at the time of appraisal of the Klaipeda
Geothermal Demonstration Project (KGDP), efforts were underway to unbundle the DH companies, which


                                                      - 22 -

in fact happened in 1997, after the KGDP was already approved.

In the event of a future geothermal project, it is highly recommended that the plant be part of the district
heating company in order to optimize benefits (environmental, economic and financial).

In view of the negative technical problems experienced during the Project, it could be debated if a turn-key
contract would have been better in more clearly defining responsibilities during the implementation phase.
Certainly, a higher cost would have been the result, but given the lost time and lost revenues experienced
for nearly two years, it appears that a turn-key contract would have been more cost effective. The risk of
failure would then have clearly rested with the supplier.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Lithuania - Borrower

                            LIETUVOS RESPUBLIKOS UKIO MINISTERIJA
                   MINISTRY OF ECONOMY OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                              Gedimino ave. 38/2, LT-2600 Vilnius, Lithuania
   Tel +370 5 262 5730, +370 5 2~1 8644, fax +37052623974, +370 5 262 5604, http://www.ukmin.lt

2003-06-17 (27.4-51)-3-3260

Mr. Anders Halldin
The World Bank, Warsaw Office
Warsaw Financial Center, 9th Floor
53 Emilii Plater str., 00-113 Warsaw, Poland

Re: Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project (Loan No 4013-LT)


Dear Mr. Halldin,

The Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of
Lithuania accept in principal the comments prepared by the JSC "Geoterma" with respect to the final report
(fmd attached) of the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project (Loan No 4013LT) and have no
additional comments.

The Ministries are positive that the project completion could be assessed as a success, provided technical
shortcomings of the project are eliminated as soon as possible. The Ministries of Economy and
Environment would like to thank the World Bank, the Global Environment Facility, the Danish
Environmental Protection Agency and other establishments that made their contribution to implementation
of the project.

Yours sincerely,

Artfiras Dainius
Under-secretary




                                                      - 23 -

APPROVED (June 17, 2003)
Arvydas Dragunas
State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment



Enterprise Geoterma - Implementing Agency

                      KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
                                         LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                                               FINAL REPORT
                                                 KLAIPEDA
                                                     2003

1. Basic Information on the Loan and Assistance

The Loan Agreement (No 4013 LT) between the Republic of Lithuania and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development on the loan of 5,9 million USD was signed on 28 June 1996.

The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania and the JSC
"Geoterma" was signed on 16 October 1996. Annex No 1 to the latter Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania and the JSC "Geoterma" was signed on 15 May 2002.

The Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (No TFO28313) between the Republic of
Lithuania and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the grant of 4,6 million SDR
was signed on 28 June 1996.

The Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania and the
JSC "Geoterma" was signed on 25 October 1996.
The subsidiary grant of 3,0 million USD was allocated by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency
(DEPA) for the Project.

On 30 April 1997 the Technical Assistance Agreement between Dansk 01ie og Naturgas AS (hereinafter
referred to as DONG) and the JSC "Geoterma was made. The Grant financed by the DEP A was
administered by DONG.
The Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project was intended to complete on 31 January 1999.

The Loan closing date
The Loan closing date extension was made for a few times from the original date, which was 31 July 1999.
The last extension by the World Bank notice was fixed for 30 April 2003.

Reallocation of the Loan and Grant
In order to maximize effectiveness in the achievement of Project objectives, the Loan and Grant amounts
were reallocated by categories (activities, services).

2. Project Implementation
2.1 Execution management
The JSC "Geoterma" was established in 1996 with the aim to implement the Project. The JSC "Geoterma"
under the management of its administration and together with its highly skilled staff operated on the basis


                                                     - 24 -

of the basis of its administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practice.

2.2 Procurement Information
Procurement of goods, works and services required for the Project and financed from the funds of the Loan
and the Grant was executed in accordance with the requirements laid down in Section 2.0.2 of the Project
Agreement. Guidelines for the procurement procedure were followed without any deviation during the
Project Implementation process. The Word Bank reviewed ad approved the procurement procedures. The
procurement activities covered thirty-one (31) Open International Tenders. All the procurement procedures
were canied out and successfully completed by the end of 2002.

2.3 Contracting
On completion tender procedures, the Tender Commission used to assess all the bids on the basis of the
evaluation criteria listed in the tender documents. All the fmdings and recommendations as well as
confirmations were obtained from the Bank as required.

3. Financial Information
The first disbursements from the Loan and of the Grant funds were made in May 1997, and the last
disbursement was made in May 2002. No serious deviations or delays in payment procedures took place.

4. Project Implementation Problems and Their After-effects
Faults were not avoided, due to which construction of the plant was delayed. Just a few major faults might
be mentioned.

The construction of two injection wells was initially planned, from which geothermal water through one
injection well would be returned back to the aquifer after heat transfer through absorption heat pumps. The
plan did not answer the purpose in practice. One injection well could not accept the whole geothermal water
from two production wells. As a result, another one injection well was drilled in 1997.

The injection wells were not properly cleaned during the commissioning of the plant and the quality of
cleaning was not tested by a video camera, due to which the pressure in the wells was increased during the
commissioning of the plant, and injectivity of the injection wells was decreased, therefore, the clean-up of
the wells was performed on March-April, 2002.

Another problem is gypsum precipitation in geothermal water pipes and equipment. While preparing of the
injection wells for cleaning, development of gypsum crystals was observed. The problem would be resolved
in due time, provided that before designing of the plant full analysis of geothermal water were performed
and the construction experience of the Republic of Slovakia and geothermal plants of other countries were
used regarding introduction of inhibitors to geothermal water. However, this was not realized in practice.

The technical assistance and training component was developed fragmentarily in the Project. The Technical
Assistance Agreement made between DONG and the JSC "Geoterma" in April 30, 1997 provided for that
all operators of the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Plant will be trained in the Thisted Geothermal
Plant in Denmark. However, not a single employee of the JSC "Geoterma" was trained in Denmark.
Operators of the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Plant attended the course for boiler operators in
Lithuania and special operation permits were issued.

Suppliers of equipment concerned trained the Lithuanian operators to operate absorption, submersible,
injection pumps and other equipment. The SCAD A system installation engineers from Lithuania trained
them to automatically control the plant. The staff and administration of the JSC "Geoterma" trained


                                                      - 25 -

themselves to work on-site during the project implementation.

However, the problem relating to the gypsum precipitation in the plant has not yet been resolved. All the
pipelines and equipment within the plant are contaminated by gypsum crystals. At. present only one of the
two pairs of the absorption heat pump units is in operation, i.e. only one pair of the absorption heat pumps
operates at 50 % of its capacity. Besides, the gypsum precipitation problem was noticed as far back as
2001, but elimination, of the problem has been procrastinated so far. The clean-up project activities are
planned, however, without any explanatory reason (as the funds been
reserved for the said activities), to complete by the consultants of DONG in December 2003. One fears that
the plant's operation may be discontinued by the said moment. If, the gypsum problem is not resolved, the
Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project might be considered a failure.

The after-effects of all the referred project faults are as follows:

l all the above-mentioned project faults have postponed the approval of the plant as fit for exploitation
    with the corrected capacity of 41 MW, including 17MW capacity generated by geothermal water, for
    about four years;
l the plant did not produce -500 thousand MW of heat and receive income in the amount of23 million
    Litas (if calculated at the level of 46 Lt/MWh) in 2001-2003;
l while the plant is not approved as fit for exploitation, the price approved by the state authorities in the
    amount of 53,9 LtJMWh cannot be fixed;
l at present the JSC "Geoterma" operates at a loss, therefore, in 2002 the Government of the Republic of
    Lithuania deferred reimbursement of the loan and interest payment for two years. The loan to JSC
    "Geoterma" is repaid from the budget of the Republic of Lithuania.

5. Project Advantages
Upon elimination of all the said shortcomings and faults in the plant and clean-up of its equipment and
pipelines from crystal precipitation as well as installation of preventive systems against crystallization, the
Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Plant might be a modem thermal plant meeting the global technology
standards.

The advantage of the KGDP lies in the fact that its experience could be used for implementation of future
activity plans, including the development of geothermal energy in Lithuania, if this is economically and
fmancially feasible. Besides, the geothermal water from the KGDP could be used for balneology by
constructing geothermal pools.

The project of the plant creates the structure for the following:

l long-term operation of the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Plant, whichsupplies heat to the
    Klaipeda Free Economical Zone;
l gradual improvement of air quality in the Klaipeda city and prevention of global climate changes;
l demonstration of environment-friendly methods of energy supply in Lithuania.


Alfonsas Bickus,
Director of the JSC "Geoterma"


(b) Cofinanciers:
Danish Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA)



                                                       - 26 -

To a large degree, the Geothermal Demonstration Project in Klaipeda is a replica of a similar plant in
Thisted in Northern Denmark. Before the Danish plant was constructed, thorough geological and
hydrological tests were carried out. In addition to this survey it was decided to build a small plant. A
production well and an injection well were drilled and linked to the pilot processing plant. When the pilot
plant had demonstrated that geothermal energy could be generated, the plant was modified and extended to
its present size. Had this gradual implementation been applied in Klaipeda, some of the geothermal flow
problems which were experienced might have been detected and remedied at a very early stage in the
project.

Although a special management workshop was conducted before the implementation of the plant was
launched and a Dutch management consultant advised EG for a short period after the workshop, certain
cooperative problems have hampered the communication between Lithuanian and Danish personnel.

Still, some language problems make cooperation between Lithuanians and Danes difficult. English must be
mastered by the leading staff if the important transfer of technology and management shall succeed.
Alternatively, efficient interpretation needs to be provided throughout the process in order to facilitate
communication. Undoubtedly, time will cure this problem as the younger, English speaking Lithuanian
generation gains access to the positions in middle and top management.

A manual should be prepared to present a detailed technical and financial evaluation of the planning and
implementation of the project, how problems were detected and eliminated, and how local personnel were
trained to operate and maintain the plant. The manual should include information and lessons learned at all
phases of the project, from geological, hydrological and chemical analysis of the source, to the final
commissioning of the works.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                            1
           Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




No Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix were required at time of project appraisal
Output Indicators:
                                                            1
           Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                              - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                       Component                                 Appraisal            Actual/          Percentage
                                                                  Estimate     Latest Estimate (1)          of
                                                                  US$ million       US$ million         Appraisal

Investment Component                                               12.59               14.21               113
Drilling Operation                                                  1.91                 2.7               141
Completion of Wells                                                 0.69                 0.6                87
Control and Evaluation of Drilling Operations                       0.15                 0.4               267
New Injection Well*                                                   0                 1.45
Cleanup of Injection Well Filters*                                    0                 0.37
Spare Motor for Second Production Well*                               0                 0.11
Brine Pumps - Submersible and Injection Pumps*                        0                 0.97
Building and Civil Works                                            0.52                 1.6               308
Connection to Boiler House and External Pipeline                    0.73                0.45                62
Geothermal Flowline to New Injection Well*                            0                 0.25
Heat Exchangers for Absorption Heat Pumps                           0.71                  0                 0
Absorption Heat Pumps                                               6.34                1.97                31
Hot Water Boilers for Driving Heat*                                   0                 1.04
Heat Exchangers and Economizers for Boilers*                          0                 0.53
Heat Accumulation Tank*                                               0                 0.12
Circulation Pumps (district loop and heat accumulator)*               0                 0.09
Local Design of Buildings and Flowline**                              0                 0.09
Sewage Tanks and Pipeline*                                            0                 0.12
Filters, Valves and Internal Piping                                 0.82                0.71                87
Power, Control and Regulation                                       0.72                0.64                89

Technical Assistance and Training                                   2.26                2.55               113

Project Implementation Support                                      0.24                0.09                38

TOTAL BASELINE COST                                                15.09               16.85               112
                                    Physical Contingencies          0.75
                                       Price Contingencies          1.78

TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                 17.62               16.85                96
                                Interest during construction         0.4                 0.4



TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                           18.02               17.25                96


* New Addition to Investment
** New Addition to TA
(1) The total cost does not include funds required to rectify the current gypsum crystallization problem
at the geothermal plant (0.3 million for pressure expansion tanks, nitrogen buffers and an inhibitor to cleanup
gypsum crystals). This additional will be covered by an additional grant from the Danish Government.




                                                   - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                   2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                              0.75              0.00            0.00              0.00            0.75
                                     (0.23)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.23)
2. Goods                              13.85             0.00            0.00              0.09            13.94
                                    (12.01)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (12.01)
3. Services                           0.00              0.00            0.16              2.77            2.93
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.16)            (0.00)           (0.16)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                              14.60             0.00            0.16              2.86            17.62
                                    (12.24)            (0.00)          (0.16)            (0.00)          (12.40)
Since the table does not allow the separation of financing from the WB Loan and the GEF Grant, the total
amount of both the loan and the grant is shown, given that the same procurement guidelines apply to both
sources of financing. In addition to the investment costs, the Loan was also supposed to cover interest
during construction totaling US$ 400,000. As such, the total Project cost at appraisal was estimated to be
US$ 18.02 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                  2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                              6.07             0.12            0.00              1.05            7.24
                                     (5.21)           (0.11)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.32)
2. Goods                              6.97             0.00            0.00              0.00            6.97
                                     (6.30)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (6.30)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00            0.00              2.64            2.64
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                              13.04            0.12            0.00              3.69            16.85
                                    (11.51)           (0.11)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (11.62)
Since the table does not allow the separation of financing from the WB Loan and the GEF Grant, the total
amount of both the loan and the grant is shown (even if the the ICR guidelines only ask for details of the
Bank loan, see note 1 below), given that the same procurement guidelines apply to both sources of
financing. In addition to the investment costs, the Loan was also used to cover interest during construction
totaling US$ 400,000. As such, the total final Project cost was US$ 17.25 million. In addition it should be



                                                    - 30 -

   mentioned that there was a loss in exchange rate in SDR equal to US$ 0.602 M during the implementation
   period and a cancellation for part of the loan in the amount of USD 0.192 M, together totaling US$ 0.795
   M.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Investment Component          12.40         2.60                    11.62         2.59                  93.7      99.6
Technical assisance                                      2.62                                2.64                         100.8
Component
Interest during                0.40                                  0.40                               100.0
Construction




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


BasicInformationandAssumptions
                                                Price ($) Efficiency         Environmentalcostof pollutions($/ton)        Enterprise Geoterma production
Mazut(3%S) (US$/ton)                               140          80%          CO2 emissions                      7         Energyresources                  percentage
Natural gas (US$/Thousand Cubic Meters)            110          85%          SO2 emissions                    600         GeothermalHeat                        41%
Geothermalheat(US$/MWh)          Current           11.5         98%          NOxemissions                     250         Natural Gas as driving heat           59%
                                 after 2003        15.4                      Particulates                   1000
                       FreeEconomicZone            18.6
Theprojectisestimatedtoreachitsfullproductionin2008.NPVandERRarecalculatedover15yearswithaterminalvalueat10%.

Energyproductions
Year                                   1996 1997   1998        1999     2000         2001     2002          2003     2004      2005         2006      2007      2008
Total production, MWh                                                   586     103,309    189,000       237,720   264,800 265,800     267,300      269,300 270,800
GeothermalHeat,MWh                                                      240       42,357    77,490       97,465    108,568 108,978     109,593      110,413 111,028
Driving Heat from natural gas, MWh                                      346       60,952   111,510       140,255   156,232 156,822     157,707      158,887 159,772

Emissionmitigation
Year                                   1996 1997   1998        1999     2000         2001     2002          2003     2004      2005         2006      2007      2008
ScenarioOne: comparingwithprojectsusingMazut
TotalCO2mitigation(ton)                                                  99       17,532    32,075       40,343    44,938    45,108      45,363      45,702  45,956
CO2 mitigation from Geothermal energy (ton)                              84       14,721    26,932       33,875    37,734    37,876      38,090      38,375  38,589
CO2 mitigation from driving heat NG (ton)                                16        2,811     5,142        6,468     7,205     7,232       7,273      7,327     7,368
Total SO2 mitigation (ton)                                                5          801     1,466        1,844     2,054     2,062       2,074      2,089     2,101
Total NOx mitigation (ton)                                                0            29      52              66      73         73          74        74        75
TotalParticulateMatters(TPM)(ton)                                         0            11      21              26      29         29          30        30        30
ScenarioTwo: comparingwithNaturalGas
TotalCO2mitigation(ton)                                                  72       12,768    23,359       29,380    32,727    32,851      33,036      33,283  33,469
CO2 mitigation from Geothermal energy (ton)                              72       12,768    23,359       29,380    32,727    32,851      33,036      33,283  33,469
CO2 mitigation from driving heat NG (ton)
SO2 mitigation (ton)
NOxmitigation(ton)                                                        0            36      66              83      92         92          93        94        94
Particulates(ton)

EconomicanalysisScenarioOne: comparingwithprojectsusingMazut
Year                                   1996 1997   1998        1999     2000         2001     2002          2003     2004      2005         2006      2007      2008
Benefit from cost savings(000$)                                         (106)        (106)   1,348        1,382     1,576     1,583       1,593      1,607     1,617
Benefit from emission reduction(000$)                                     4          622     1,138        1,432     1,595     1,601       1,610      1,622     1,631
Total Benefit(000$)                                                     (103)        516     2,486        2,813     3,171     3,184       3,203      3,228     3,248
Investment cost(000$)                      2,748 2,539        6,261   3,279        1,254      675
NPV (000$, discount rate at 10%)    6,392
ERR                                 14.8%

EconomicanalysisScenarioTwo: comparingwithprojectsusingNaturalGas
Year                                   1996 1997   1998        1999     2000         2001     2002          2003     2004      2005         2006      2007      2008
Benefit from cost savings(000$)                                         (108)        (318)    960           894     1,033     1,037       1,045      1,054     1,061
Benefit from emission reduction(000$)                                     1            98     180           226       252        253         254       256      258
Total Benefit(000$)                                                     (107)        (219)   1,140        1,120     1,285     1,290       1,299      1,310     1,319
Investment cost(000US$)                -   2,748 2,539        6,261   3,279        1,254      675
NPV (000$,Discount rate at 10%)     (5,200)
ERR                                   4.7%




                                                                         - 32 -

                          Chart 1 SO2 m itigation comparing with projects using mazut


                 2500

                 2000

                 1500                                                              SAR SO2 mitigation (ton)

                 1000                                                              ICR SO2 mitigation (ton)
SO2(ton)
                  500

                    0


                    1999 2000   2001 2002 2003  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008

                                               Year



                   Chart 2 CO2 m itigation com paring w ith projects using m azut




                  60000
                  50000
                  40000                                                           SAR CO2 mitigation (ton)

        (ton)     30000                                                           ICR CO2 mitigation (ton)

             CO2  20000

                  10000
                      0


                       1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
                                                Year




                       Chart 3 NOx mitigation comparing with projects using mazut


                120


                100

                80

                                                                                       SAR NOx emissions (ton)
                60
                                                                                       ICR NOx emissions (ton)

                40

                20


                  0
                    1999   2000  2001  2002   2003  2004   2005   2006  2007 2008

                                                 Y ear




                                                                         - 33 -

          Chart 4 CO2 mitigation comparing w ith projects using natural gas




        40000
        30000                                                 SAR CO2 mitigation (ton)
(ton)   20000                                                 ICR CO2 mitigation (ton)

     CO210000
            0


            1999  2001  2003   2005 2007

                            Year




                                                     - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Mar 7-14, 1994             2    Task Manager
              (Identification)                Regional Environmental
                                              Specialist
              Aug 29 -                   6    Task Manager
              Sept 9, 1994                    Regional Environmental
              (Pre-Appraisal)                 Specialist Regional Energy
                                              Specialist
                                              Financial Analyst
                                              Procurement Advisor
                                              Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Mar 13-24, 1995            7    Task Manager
              (Appraisal)                     Regional Environmental
                                              Specialist
                                              Regional Energy Specialist
                                              Financial Analyst
                                              Legal Councilor
                                              Economist
                                              Environmental Economist

              Jan 25, 1996               1    Task Manager

 Supervision
              Sept 8-12, 1996            3    Team Leader
              (Supervision 1)                 Environmental Specialist
                                              Procurement Specialist

              Sept 1-5, 1997             4    Team Leader                       S               S
              (Supervision 2)                 Financial Analyst
                                              Regional Environmental
                                              Specialist
                                              Procurement Specialist

              Mar 23-27, 1998            3    Team Leader                       S               S
              (Supervision 3)                 Environmental Specialist
                                              Financial Analyst
                                              Regional Environmental
                                              Specialist
              Dec 7-11, 1998             3    Team Leader                       S               S
              (Supervision 4)                 Regional Environmental
                                              Specialist
                                              Financial Analyst

              Apr 26-30, 1999            3    Team Leader                       S               S
              (Supervision 5)                 Environmental Specialist



                                               - 35 -

                                                   Financial Analyst

               Nov 3-8, 1999                 2     Team Leader                       S     HS
               (Supervsion 6)                      Financial Analyst

               May 1-5, 2000                 2     Team Leader                       S     HS
               (Supervision 7)                     Financial Analyst

               Sept 24-29, 2000              3     Team Leader                       S     HS
               (Supervision 8)                     Environmental Specialist
                                                   Financial Analyst

               Apr 30 -                      3     Team Leader                       S     U
               May 7, 2001                         Environmental Specialist
               (Supervision 9)                     Financial Analyst

               Nov 28 -                      2     Team Leader                       S     U
               Dec 5, 2001                         Financial Analyst
               (Supervision 10)

               Apr 7-12, 2002                2     Team Leader                       U     U
               (Supervision 11)                    Financial Analyst

 ICR
               Nov 17-27, 2002               4     Team Leader                       S     S
               (ICR Mission 1)                     Economist
                                                   Financial Analyst
                                                   Operations Analyst

               04/01/03                      4     Team Leader                       S     S
               (ICR Mission 2)                     Economist
                                                   Financial Analyst
                                                   Regional Environmental
                                                   Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                    381
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                          40
  Supervision                                                                   370
  ICR                                                                            67
  Total                                                                         858
The costs shown above represent the total amounts used from the Bank (0.375 M)
and GEF (0.307 M) budgets for the Project preparation, supervision and completion work,
as well as the TFs (0.176 M) used for different tasks under project preparation and
implementation.




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 39 -

- 40 -

