Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                            Project Agreement
                (Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project)
                                 between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                   UZDAROJI AKCINE BENDROVE "GEOTERMA"
                           Dated June 28, 1996
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                            PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and UZDAROJI AKCINE BENDROVE
"GEOTERMA" (EG).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Lithuania (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to five million nine hundred thousand dollars ($5,900,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
EG agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EG, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to EG on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS EG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                              Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
Page  2
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                              ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. EG declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and environmental practices and in accordance with the PIP, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) EG shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions,
and without limitation thereto, EG shall:
             (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                    Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
                    months after the Closing Date or such later date as
                    may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
                    EG, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
                    and
            (ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                    views with EG on said plan.
      Section 2.04. EG shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EG
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) EG shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
      (b)   EG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by EG
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.06.  Without limitation to the provisions of Sections
9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, EG shall:
       (a)  not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution
of the Project, including estimated and revised costs and time-tables,
and a comparison of actual results with budgets; and
      (b)   not later than October 31 of each year, prepare and furnish
to the Bank for review and approval, its operating and capital investment
budget for the upcoming year and the overall budget for the Project.
                             ARTICLE III
Page  3
                  Management and Operation of EG
      Section 3.01. EG shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. EG shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.
      Section 3.03. EG shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) EG shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
      (b)   EG shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year, audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                  each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, during
implementation of the Project, EG shall not enter into any new geothermal
ventures or incur any additional debt which must be repaid in twelve (12)
months or longer after its incurrence.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of EG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly
notify EG thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      For Enterprise Geoterma:
            UAB "Geoterma"
            A. Juozapaviciaus 13
            2005 Vilnius
            Republic of Lithuania
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of EG may be taken or executed by the Director or such other person
or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and the Director
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By  /s/   Basil Kavalsky
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                  UZDAROJI AKCINE BENDROVE "GEOTERMA"
                  By  /s/   Alfonsas Eidintas
                                          Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE
                              Procurement
Page  5
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
      Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
