Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                 GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028313
                                       RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
                              GRANT AGREEMENT
                (Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project)
                                 between
                         REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                     acting as Implementing Agency of
               the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
                          Dated June 28, 1996
                                   GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028313
                                         RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global
Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of
the Bank, as participants of the GEF.
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14,
1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
      (B)   following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of the
Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF
Trust Fund;
      (C)   the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the
financing of the Project, and the Bank has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No 94-2;
      (E)   the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide
additional financing towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the Bank, the
Page  2
Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount of five million nine hundred thousand Dollars ($5,900,000) (the
Loan);
      (F)   the Recipient intends to contract from the Government of
Denmark a grant (the Danish Grant) in an amount equivalent to two
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Danish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Recipient and the Government of Denmark;
      (G)   the Project will be carried out by Uzdaroji Akcine Bendrove
"Geoterma" (EG) with the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Recipient will make available to EG the proceeds of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
            (i)   Article I;
           (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10),
                  (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02, 2.03 and 2.04;
          (iii)   Section 3.01;
           (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
            (v)   Article V;
           (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and
                  (k), 6.03, 6.04  and 6.06;
          (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
         (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
                  and 9.09;
           (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
            (x)   Article XI; and
           (xi)   Section 12.04.
      (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
            (i)   a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section
                  2.01 to read as follows: "the term 'Special Drawing
                  Rights' and the symbol 'SDR' mean special drawing
                  rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund
                  in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
           (ii)   the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the Recipient;
          (iii)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
                  General Conditions, means this Agreement;
           (iv)   the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the
                  General Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
Page  3
            (v)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                  "Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise
                  agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
                  expenditures in the territories of any country which is
                  not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
                  services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
                  the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
                  for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
                  the knowledge of the Bank is prohibited by a decision
                  of the United Nations Security Council, taken under
                  Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations";
           (vi)   the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
          (vii)   a new sub-paragraph is added after sub-paragraph (j) in
                  Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an
                  extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any
                  further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                  would exceed the resources available for disbursement
                  from the GEF Trust Fund."
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Decree No. 1609" means the Recipient's Decree No. 1609
dated December 22, 1995, which grants to EG a permit to construct the
geothermal demonstration plant and to supply KDHE with the heat so
produced;
      (b)   "Enterprise Geoterma" or "EG" means Uzdaroji Akcine Bendrove
"Geoterma" a closed joint stock company established and operating
pursuant to Decree No. 1609, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and registered at the Enterprise Registry of the Recipient on
March 1, 1996 and any successor thereto;
      (c)   "KDHE" means Klaipeda District Heating Enterprise, organized
as a branch of LPC pursuant to the Articles of Association of LPC dated
December 4, 1995 and operating pursuant to By-laws dated January 24, 1995
and a general authorization from LPC dated December 20, 1995 and any
successor thereto;
      (d)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the "General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "LPC" means "AB Lietuvos Energija," the Lithuanian Power
Company, established and operating pursuant to Articles of Association
dated October 3, 1995, the Law on Joint Stock Companies No. I-528 dated
July 5,1994 and Law No. I-794 on Special Purpose Companies dated
February 15, 1995 as the same may be amended from time to time, and the
Decree of the Ministry of Energy No. 176 on Reorganization of the
Lithuanian Power System into a Joint Stock Company, dated August 11,
1995, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (f)   "PIP" means Project Implementation Plan agreed between the
Recipient and the Bank on November 10, 1995, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and referred to in Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement;
      (g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and EG, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
Page  4
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "EG Statutes" means the founding statutes, charter, articles
of association and by-laws or other similar instrument of EG registered
by EG with Vilnius City Council Register of Enterprises on March 1, 1996;
      (j)   "Shareholders' Agreement" means the Shareholders' Agreement
dated February 15, 1996 between the Recipient and LPC as founding share-
holders in EG;
      (k)   "Sub-grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Recipient and EG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Sub-grant Agreement; and
      (m)   "Take or Pay Contract" means the contract for purchase by
KDHE from EG of the heat generated by EG, concluded between EG and KDHE
on behalf of LPC on April 11, 1996, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and referred to in Sections 3.05 and 5.01 (f) of this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                        The GEF Trust Fund Grant
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
4,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
      (b)   The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial Bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Recipient of such later date.
      Section 2.04. EG is designated as representative of the Borrower in
respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, shall require
EG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of EG therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EG to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant available to EG under a sub-grant agreement to be entered into
Page  5
between the Recipient and EG under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.
      (c)   The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Sub-grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Sub-grant Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried
out by EG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, during execution of the Project, the
Recipient shall, through its Ministry of Energy, make available to EG
annually on a grant basis the funds that shall have been determined by
the Recipient and EG and agreed by the Bank to be sufficient to cover
EG's direct operating expenses, the said funds to be included in the
annual budget of the Recipient's Ministry of Energy.
      Section 3.05. The Recipient shall, and shall cause LPC to, take
all necessary measures to ensure that KDHE complies with its obligations
under the Take or Pay Contract.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust
                  Fund Grant Account was made; and
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Recipient shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                  each such year, the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
Page  6
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                   ARTICLE V
                              Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   EG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that EG will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The EG Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of EG to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EG or for
the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   Decree No. 1609 of the Recipient shall have been amended,
canceled, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of EG to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
      (f)   The Take or Pay Contract shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated, waived or otherwise modified so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EG to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or otherwise meet the objectives
of the Project.
      (g)   The Shareholders' Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated, waived or otherwise modified so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EG to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or otherwise meet the objectives of the
Project.
                               ARTICLE VI
                      Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to
the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement:
      (a)   the Sub-grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Recipient and EG; and
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement and the Danish Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than
those relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 2.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the
GEF Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
                               ARTICLE VII
Page  7
               Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            Ministry of Finance
            Sermuksniu 6
            2696 Vilnius
            Republic of Lithuania
                                           Telex:
                                           261252 FIMA SU
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                  By  /s/   Alfonsas Eidintas
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    acting as Implementing Agency of the
                    Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
                  By  /s/   Basil Kavalsky
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                             SCHEDULE 1
          Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
Page  8
                             GEF Trust Fund
                            Grant Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works under Part B        1,753,000          100% of foreign
    of the Project                               expenditures
                                                 and 80% of
                                                 local expenditures
(2) Goods under Part B         2,740,000         100% of foreign
    of the Project                               expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3) Consultants'                 107,000         100%
    Services under
    Part A of the Project
                                 ________
         TOTAL                  4,600,000
                                =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods,
works or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Recipient; and
    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Recipient or for goods, works or services supplied
from the territory of the Recipient.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 460,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1996.
4.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used
or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
5.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures: (i) for goods and works under contracts not exceeding
$250,000 equivalent; and (ii) for services under contracts costing less
than $100,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms and under
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Recipient.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) demonstrate the feasibility
and value of using low temperature geothermal water as a renewable
indigenous energy resource in district heating systems; (ii) reduce the
emission of greenhouse gases and sulfur dioxide by replacing gas and
heavy oil with geothermal energy; and (iii) promote sustainable management
and the development of environmentally sound and non-polluting geothermal
resources on a national and regional level.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  9
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Technical Assistance and Training
1.  Design of the geothermal loop including all necessary equipment for
extracting heat from the geothermal water and transferring it to the
district heating system.
2.  Preparation of detailed drilling, testing, and completing programs.
3.  Management support for Project implementation, including support in
preparing tender documents, and construction supervision.
4.  Training of EG staff and management in the operation of a similar
geothermal plant in Thisted, Denmark, to optimize the transfer of
technology.
Part B:  Investment Component
1.  Establishment of two production wells and one injection well.
2.  Construction of above ground facilities, including plant building and
necessary equipment such as absorption heat pumps, heat exchanger, and
auxiliary equipment for control and regulation of the plant and the heat
transfer to the district heating system.
3.  Laying of piping network between production wells and the geothermal
plant, geothermal plant and injection well, and the geothermal plant and
the district heating network.
                                 *****
    The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1999.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of (i) goods and works required for Part
B of the Project; and (ii) consultants' services required for Part A of
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
Page  10
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as
                  shall have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
                  for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
                  be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                  Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
                  in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
                  been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account,
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to
the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
Page  11
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
