Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                           Loan Agreement
                (Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project)
                               between
                        REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 28, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the Bank, acting as
Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund, to
provide additional financing towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith (the "GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement")
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to four million
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000) (the GEF
Trust Fund Grant);
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Denmark a grant (the Danish Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million
five hundred thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Danish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Government of Denmark; and
      (D)   the Project will be carried out by Uzdaroji Akcine Bendrove
"Geoterma" (EG) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to EG the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement.
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and EG;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
            withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
            in the territories of any country which is not a member of
            the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
            such territories; or (b) for the purpose to any payment to
            persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
            payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
            prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
            Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
            of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Decree No. 1609" means the Borrower's Decree No. 1609 dated
December 22, 1995 which grants to EG a permit to construct the geothermal
demonstration plant and to supply KDHE with the heat so produced;
      (b)   "Enterprise Geoterma" or "EG" means Uzdaroji Akcine Bendrove
"Geoterma", a closed joint stock company established and operating
pursuant to Decree No. 1609 as the same may be amended from time to time,
and registered at the Enterprise Registry of the Borrower on March 1,
1996 and any successor thereto;
      (c)   "KDHE" means Klaipeda District Heating Enterprise, organized
as a branch of LPC pursuant to the Articles of Association of LPC dated
December 4, 1995 and operating pursuant to By-laws dated January 24,
1996 and a general authorization from LPC dated December 20, 1995, and
any successor thereto;
      (d)   "LPC" means "AB Lietuvos Energija," the Lithuanian Power
Company, established and operating pursuant to Articles of Association
dated October 3, 1995, the Law on Joint Stock Companies No. I-528 dated
July 5, 1994, and Law No. I-794 on Special Purpose Companies dated
February 15, 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time, and the
Decree of the Ministry of Energy of the Borrower No. 176 dated August 11,
1995 on the Reorganization of Lithuanian Power System into a Joint Stock
Company, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (e)   "PIP" means Project Implementation Plan agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank on November 10, 1995 as the same may be amended
Page  3
from time to time, and referred to in Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement;
      (f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
EG of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "EG Statutes" means the founding statutes, charter, articles
of association and by-laws or other similar instrument of EG registered
by EG with Vilnius City Council Register of Enterprises on March 1, 1996;
      (i)   "Shareholders' Agreement" means a Shareholders' Agreement
dated February 15, 1996, between the Borrower and LPC as founding
shareholders in EG;
      (j)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (k)   "Take or Pay Contract" means the contract for purchase by
KDHE from EG of the heat generated by EG, concluded between EG and KDHE
on behalf of LPC on April 11, 1996, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and referred to in Sections 3.05, 5.01 (f) and 6.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of five million and nine hundred thousand dollars ($5,900,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other
charges on the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to
pay, on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and
payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
Page  4
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six (6) months or the
                  second six (6) months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
            of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
            rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
            plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
            shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
            on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
            year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. EG is designated as representative of the Borrower
in respect of the Project for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  5
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall require EG to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of EG therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EG to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to EG
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EG, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, and which shall include, inter alia: (i) maturity
of 20 years, with 5-year grace period; (ii) interest rate equal to the
Loan rate as specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (iii) the
relending of such proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower and the repayment
by EG to be in foreign exchange, with the foreign exchange risk to be
borne by EG.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall
be carried out by EG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, during execution of Project, the Borrower
shall make available to EG annually on a grant basis the funds that
shall have been determined by the Borrower and EG and agreed by the Bank
to be sufficient to cover EG's direct operating expenses during each year
of Project implementation.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, and shall cause LPC to take,
all necessary measures to ensure that KDHE complies with its obligations
under the Take or Pay Contract.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Page  6
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                  each such year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                   ARTICLE V
                              Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   EG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that EG will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The EG Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
EG to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Shareholders' Agreement shall have been amended, canceled,
abrogated, terminated, assigned, waived or modified so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EG to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EG or for
the suspension of its operations.
      (f)   Decree No. 1609 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of EG to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
      (g)   The Take or Pay Contract shall have been amended, canceled,
abrogated, terminated, assigned, waived or otherwise modified so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of EG to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or otherwise meet the objectives
of the Project.
      (h)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the
                  right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any
                  grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the
                  Project shall have been suspended, canceled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                  thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Page  7
                  Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
                  termination is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the
                  relevant grant agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
                  the Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)
and (h) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (h) (ii) of said Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and EG; and
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Danish
Grant Agreement and the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement have been
fulfilled, other than those relating to the effectiveness of this
Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EG, and is legally binding upon EG in accordance with its
terms;
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and EG and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and EG in accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   that the Take or Pay Contract has been duly authorized by
EG and KDHE on behalf of LPC and is legally binding upon EG and LPC in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Sermuksniu 6
Page  8
            2696 Vilnius
            Republic of Lithuania
                                           Telex:
                                           261252 FIMA SU
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64l45 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                  By /s/ Alfonsas Eidintas
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                              SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works under Part B            230,000        100% of foreign
    of the Project                               expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2) Goods under Part B          5,270,000        100% of foreign
    of the Project                               expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost) and
                                                 80% of local expendi-
                                                 tures for other items
Page  9
                                                 procured locally
(3) Interest and other            400,000        Amount due pursuant
    charges on the Loan                          to Section 2.02 (c) of
    accrued on or                                this Agreement
    before March 15, 1999
                                 ________
         TOTAL                  5,900,000
                                =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods and
works supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or works supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $550,000, may be made in respect
of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1996.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and
works under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) demonstrate the
feasibility and value of using low temperature geothermal water as a
renewable indigenous energy resource in district heating systems;
(ii) reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and sulfur dioxide by
replacing gas and heavy oil with geothermal energy; and (iii) promote
sustainable management and the development of environmentally sound
and non-polluting geothermal resources on a national and regional level.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Technical Assistance and Training
1.    Design of the geothermal loop including all necessary equipment for
extracting heat from the geothermal water and transferring it to the
district heating system.
2.    Preparation of detailed drilling, testing, and completion programs.
3.    Management support for Project implementation, including support in
preparing tender documents, and construction supervision.
4.    Training of EG staff and management in the operation of a similar
geothermal plant in Thirsted, Denmark, to optimize the transfer of
technology.
Part B:     Investment Component
1.    Establishment of two production wells and one injection well.
2.    Construction of above-ground facilities, including plant building
and necessary equipment, such as absorption heat pumps, heat exchanger,
and auxiliary equipment for control and regulation of the plant and the
Page  10
heat transfer to the district heating system.
3.    Laying of piping network between production wells and the
geothermal plant, the geothermal plant and injection well, and the
geothermal plant and the district heating network.
                              * * * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1999.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (Expressed in dollars)
September 15, 2001                                     115,000
March 15, 2002                                         120,000
September 15, 2002                                     120,000
March 15, 2003                                         125,000
September 15, 2003                                     130,000
March 15, 2004                                         135,000
September 15, 2004                                     140,000
March 15, 2005                                         145,000
September 15, 2005                                     150,000
March 15, 2006                                         155,000
September 15, 2006                                     160,000
March 15, 2007                                         165,000
September 15, 2007                                     170,000
March 15, 2008                                         180,000
September 15, 2008                                     185,000
March 15, 2009                                         190,000
September 15, 2009                                     200,000
March 15, 2010                                         205,000
September 15, 2010                                     210,000
March 15, 2011                                         220,000
September 15, 2011                                     230,000
March 15, 2012                                         235,000
September 15, 2012                                     245,000
March 15, 2013                                         255,000
September 15, 2013                                     260,000
March 15, 2014                                         270,000
September 15, 2014                                     280,000
March 15, 2015                                         290,000
September 15, 2015                                     300,000
March 15, 2016                                         315,000
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum) applicable to
                                     the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                         0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                           0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
Page  11
More than 11 years but not                        0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                        0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                         1.00
      maturity
                             SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works required for Part B of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
                  for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
Page  12
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project, minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part
B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Part
B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  13
