Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                  GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028313
                                        RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                            Project Agreement
               (Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project)
                                 between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                    acting as Implementing Agency of
               the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
                                   and
                  UZDAROJI AKCINE BENDROVE "GEOTERMA"
                           Dated June 28, 1996
                                  GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028313
                                        RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4013 LT
                            PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an Implementing
Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant
funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF
Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank, as participants of the GEF
and UZDAROJI AKCINE BENDROVE "GEOTERMA" (EG).
      WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Lithuania (the Recipient) and the
Implementing Agency, the Implementing Agency has agreed to make
available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent
to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
4,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Agreement, but only on condition that EG agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Implementing Agency as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      (B)   by a Sub-grant agreement to be entered into between the
Recipient and EG, the proceeds of the grant provided for under the GEF
Trust Fund Grant Agreement will be made available to EG on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Sub-grant Agreement; and
      WHEREAS EG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the GEF
Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                               ARTICLE I
                              Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                              ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. EG declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices and in accordance with the PIP,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) EG shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, EG shall:
             (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                   Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
                   months after the Closing Date or such later date as
                   may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
                   EG, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
                   and
            (ii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                   views with EG on said plan.
      Section 2.04. EG shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Sub-grant Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EG shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-grant Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) EG shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Sub-
grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant.
      (b)   EG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the
performance by EG of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Sub-grant Agreement.
      Section 2.06.  Without limitation to the provisions of Sections
9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, EG shall:
      (a)   not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution
of the Project, including estimated and revised costs and time-tables,
and a comparison of actual results with budgets; and
Page  3
      (b)   not later than October 31 of each year, prepare and furnish
to the Bank for review and approval, its operating and capital investment
budget for the upcoming year and the overall budget for the Project.
                             ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operation of EG
      Section 3.01. EG shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. EG shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.
      Section 3.03. EG shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) EG shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
      (b)   EG shall:
            (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
                 (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                 related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                 accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                 consistently applied, by independent auditors
                 acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                 case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                 each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                 statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
                 report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
                 and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                 requested; and
          (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                 said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                 as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                 time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, during
implementation of the Project, EG shall not enter into any new geothermal
ventures or incur any additional debt which must be repaid in twelve (12)
months or longer after its incurrence.
                               ARTICLE V
                      Effective Date; Termination;
                      Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
EG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify EG thereof.
Page  4
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                 INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                 Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      For Enterprise Geoterma:
            UAB "Geoterma"
            A. Juozapaviciaus 13
            2005 Vilnius
            Republic of Lithuania
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of EG may be taken or executed by the Director or such other person
or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and the Director
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   acting as Implementing Agency of the
                   Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
                 By  /s/   Basil Kavalsky
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
                 UZDAROJI AKCINE BENDROVE "GEOTERMA"
Page  5
                 By  /s/   Alfonsas Eidintas
                                         Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
      Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
Page  6
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
