E446
PAKISTAN
GEF - Protected Areas Management Project
PROCESS FRAMEWORK FOR PARTICIPATION OF CUSTODIAL COMMUNITIES IN
PARK MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION
This Process Framework for involvement of communities affected by the project establishes
compliance with the World Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement and OD 4.20 on
Indigenous Peoples. Since the exact social impacts of village level investments will only be
identified during project implementation, the Process Framework will ensure that mitigation of
any negative impacts deriving from restrictions on access by local communities to resources in
the Protected Areas will be based on participatory resource mapping involving the affected
stakeholders, and on their consent regarding the scale of the restrictions and the type of mitigation
measures to compensate loss of income. Consensus by affected local stakeholders regarding
restrictions in resource assess is covenanted in the legal agreement for the project - the Trust Fund
Grant Agreement - which stipulates, that the provincial authorities in charge of the PAs shall
ensure that any desired changes in the ways in which local populations exercise customary tenure
rights in the PAs will not be imposed on them but will emerge from a consultative process,
satisfactory to the Bank. Annual project work plans including management arrangements for
community access to resources in PAs and associated mitigation measures will require Bank
agreement.
The setting: conservation and restrictions in resource access in the three PAs
While the project is not planning any involuntary resettlement, restrictions on the access by
surrounding communities to utilize resources within the PAs will need to be introduced to stop
ecological degradation of the three PAs. However, specific forms of resource use may continue
on a reduced scale or through adhering to agreed management principles, and alternative income
generation measures will be agreed with those losing livelihood as a result of the restrictions. For
the three PAs, the situation is as follows:
Machiara: An estimated 2,400 households with varying ethnic or tribal affiliation (Choudrys,
Rajas, Syeds, and Khawajas) live in communities around the PA and are directly or indirectly
dependent on resources within the PA for cultivation, grazing, and collection of fuelwood and
medicinal plants. The grazing involves migration to high altitude summer pastures and temporary
residence by both local and itinerant herdsmen. Data from the social assessment undertaken
during project preparation indicates that 1,826 households have a high dependency on resources
in the PA through reliance on a combination of grazing, fuelwood collection, and agriculture. A
total of 187 households own 12.2 acres of agricultural land within the PA, and there are two
permanent habitations located inside it. An MOU has been drafted, which will provide for
continued grazing as well as fuelwood and timber extraction for subsistence needs by those
dependent on PA resources under the oversight of VCCs and park administration.
Chitral Gol: An estimated 1,460 households live around the PA utilizing areas either bordering
on or inside the PA for grazing and collection of fuelwood and medicinal plants. The majority of
the neighboring population are Chitralis (mostly Sunni Muslims, but some Ismaili Shia), and
there are around 280 Pashtun households in three villages. Some of the Chitrali villages around
the PA combine agriculture with livestock rearing in high altitude pastures, and have pasture
areas bordering or in the case of one village, inside the PA. In addition, members of the non-
FILE COPY


﻿Muslim Kalash minority from the Rumboor valley situated within the buffer zone utilize areas
bordering and possibly inside the PA for summer grazing and fuelwood collection. For the
Kalash, livestock husbandry centered on goat rearing has an important ritual and ideological
significance in being segregated from all other activities as an exclusively male and sacred
domain, where transhumant herding is almost the sole subsistence occupation of the male
population. The Kalash summer pastures, which are held as the collective property of each valley
community, are situated above the upper tributaries of their rivers. In contrast, agriculture in the
valley bottoms is predominantly a female domain. This dichotomy, which is at the center of
Kalash culture, poses a particular challenge in terms of introduction of culturally compatible
alternative livelihood measures to offset possible restrictions in the utilization of high alpine
pastures.
Hingol: Around 750 households representing Makrani, Zikri Baloch and Baloch utilize the area
for fishing, subsistence livestock raising, and fuelwood and drinking water collection, while
outsiders hunt inside the PA. Most settlements are small, but the major village with around 380
households is located inside the PA. The Baloch are further subdivided into three major tribal
groups, each with its own tribal leadership residing outside the area.
Institutional set-up for integration of custodial communities into park management
For each PA, a Project Management Team (PMT) will be constituted to provide the technical and
planning inputs for implementation of project activities. The PMT will be a tripartite entity
consisting of the Park Manager (Team Leader) and staff, the technical assistance entity, and
representatives of the custodial communities.' The PMT's primary responsibilities will include (i)
information dissemination, social mobilization and formation of village-level institutions, (ii) the
design and conducting of biological field surveys as well as social and resource utilization
surveys, (iii) formulation of a management plan for the PA in conjunction with local
communities, (iv) implementation of habitat improvement measures in conjunction with local
communities, (v) implementation of community development and income generation activities to
mitigate limitations in access to resources in the PAs. and (v) monitoring of community and
conservation activities. All management arrangements and community microplan investments at
the local level will be detailed in legally binding Memorandums of Understanding between the
VCCs and the PMT. In addition, the PMT will coordinate with other development projects
through the Local Advisory Committee (LAC) or any existing coordinating arrangement.
Local Advisory Committees (LACs) were formed during project preparation and will continue
during implementation. Each LAC will comprise representatives of the PMT, the local
communities, local government, NGOs and related rural support agencies. The LAC's role will be
to ensure integration of project activities in the overall development strategies and activities in the
three project areas. LACs will liaise with other governmental and development agencies active in
the area to where possible coordinate project implementation and access resources from other
programs.
I      The Project Management Team will be in a position to continue to function beyond the project
period as a Park Management Team, with the same composition of implementing agency staff and
community representatives, but without the temporary TA staff.
2


﻿In order to facilitate participation of local communities, the project will form Village
Conservation Committees (VCCs) at the village level or for each cluster of hamlets. All
households in a village can become members of the VCC and would be responsible for
nominating 3-7 members to serve as officers of the VCC. Provisions should be made to ensure
that the interests of women are represented in the VCC. Existing (CBOs) will be used wherever
feasible in terms of their functions, composition and representativeness.
Community representation in the PMT will reflect the major stakeholders (e.g. villages and ethnic
groups) whose resource utilization has an influence on the planned conservation in the PA. The
community representatives in the PMT will be nominated by the VCCs, and will help coordinate
community participation and investment strategies at the level of the park and its vicinity. Their
primary responsibilities will include interacting with VCCs, and ensuring that approved
microplan investments and community-based park management activities are implemented
according to agreements reached. They will also nominate suitable persons to attend training
courses in order to build local capacity to plan and implement agreed activities.
Overlapping or conflicting claims to resources by stakeholders are likely to come out in the open
during the participatory resource mapping and planning exercise. If such disputes cannot be
solved by the PMT and the concerned VCCs, the project will pursue arbitration under an
arrangement which closely resembles customary conflict resolution. Each party to the conflict
nominates one representative who then agrees on an independent mediator/abitrator to facilitate
reaching a compromise. The decision mediated by the arbitrator and agreed to by the two
representatives of the conflicting parties will be binding.
For each of the PAs, a technical assistance entity consisting of a park planner, a social scientist,
two social mobilizers, and an environmental awareness specialist will assist the Park Manager
and his staff during the project period. The positions for the two social mobilizers will become
permanent additions to the PMT. Training of PMT staff including the technical assistance entity
and support regarding surveys, community participation, planning and implementation will be
provided by a social scientist and park planner, both of whom will be internationally recruited. At
the outset of the project, the team, including the social mobilizers, will be trained in community
participation techniques. Consultative and planning tools to be used will inter alia include PRA
(Participatory Rural Appraisal), and techniques described in PAMIA (Protected Areas Mutual
Interaction Assessment used by the World Bank assisted India: Ecodevelopment Project).
PAMIA offers diverse tools for identifying mutual interactions between the park and local
communities, followed by the identification of possible solutions and the development of
reciprocal commitments by the parties regarding conservation and management agreements.
Local NGOs with experience in planning and implementation of participatory community
development and income generation activities will be engaged to facilitate the involvement of
custodial communities in the planning and execution of resource management strategies and
mitigation measures.
Process framework for community consultation and participation
Planning and implementation will proceed in a staggered fashion beginning with those
communities that are most adversely impacting the PA. The key steps that constitute the process
framework for participation of custodial communities in park management comprise:
1. Community orientation and mobilization: The project approach (role and composition of
VCCs and PMT, resource utilization mapping, strategies for sustainable PA resource
3


﻿management, mitigation and beneficiary contributions) will be disseminated by members of the
PMT to all the local communities known or expected to be significantly dependent on utilization
of resources in the PAs or buffer zones. In addition to dissemination of the project approach, the
orientation meetings should seek to identify the perceptions by different stakeholders regarding
the PAs and biodiversity conservation, and identify representatives of the stakeholder groups
dependent on PA resources for participation both in the subsequent resource mapping, and as
representatives in the VCC.
2.     Mapping of community resource utilization: The participatory resource mapping will
constitute an input to the planning of PA resource management and mitigation, and will establish
the baseline for subsequent impact monitoring. The mapping will draw on PRA techniques, site
inspections etc. and will furnish precise information on (a) the scale and seasonality of specific
forms of resource utilization (pasture, fuelwood and medicinal plant collection, fishing,
cultivation, hunting), (b) the number, location and circumstances of the stakeholders utilizing
specific resources, and (c) customary rights and overlapping or conflicting claims by different
stakeholders. Under the project, households considered dependent on the PAs will be those who
directly impact the PA through resource utilization, and those who are themselves impacted by
the presence of the PA (e.g. loss of crops or livestock to wild animals).
During project preparation, specific types of potentially unsustainable resource utilization were
identified in the three PAs. In Machiara, the restrictions and mitigation measures will focus on (i)
a participatory fuelwood impact assessment and alleviation strategy, (ii) a management strategy
for use of summer and winter pastures, (iii) management of no-timber forest products, and (iv)
management of illegal timber extraction. For Chitral Gol, the issues are the same, whereas for
Hingol, the issue is management of fisheries within the estuarine and marine zone of the PA.
3. Formation of VCCs and selection of representatives for the PMT: Depending on the response
from stakeholder communities, formation of VCCs and their nomination of representatives for the
PMT can take place during the participatory mapping of resource utilization, or later in the
process of interaction between the project and the custodial communities. However, both
formation of VCCs and nomination of stakeholder representatives should be completed before
resource management strategies involving restrictions in resource access and community
microplans are developed.
The project would provide training in resource mapping, natural resource management
evaluation, planning and budgeting, construction supervision, maintaining minutes of meetings,
and account keeping for the stakeholder representatives in both the VCCs and the PMTs.
4. Development of PA resource management strategies and mitigation measures: Meetings will
be held with the stakeholder communities to review the results of the resource utilization mapping
undertaken as the second step of this Process Framework, and to agree on its implications
regarding resource management strategies, mitigation measures, and community contributions to
mitigation and development activities. Selected activities should comply with the following
requirements:
All project investments must be based on cost-sharing arrangements involving the local
community that is being targeted.
Preferably, a clear and transparent linkage must exist between biodiversity conservation
and the proposed investment, so that the village specific project agreements help
"conserve biodiversity by creating sufficient incentives for consensus which commits
4


﻿people to specific, measurable actions that improve PA management and conservation""
(guidelines for the World Bank Ecodevelopment Project ).
Agreed management strategies for PA resources, measures to mitigate restrictions in resource use,
community development activities and community contributions to such activities will be
integrated in a microplan, which will be formalized in a Memorandum of Understanding based on
that used in UNDP's pilot project. The MOU will be signed by the participating communities at
the village or village cluster level, the PA management authority, the involved VCCs, and
facilitating NGO, if any. A special VCF (Village Conservation Fund) will be established for each
VCC for channeling all authorized investment funds. This account will be owned and operated by
the VCC under supervision by the PMT. Working with community representatives, the project
will develop Terms of Reference for the VCF to serve a single village or set of hamlets. The
project will disburse funds against actual activities. Project management and village
organizations will convene periodic meetings (every 4-6 months) to review project progress and
to update the PA management and micro-plans over the life of the project. In addition, the
project will ensure that all VCFs are audited annually, and that annual plans are submitted to the
Bank for review.
To be eligible for inclusion in the VCC microplan for funding under the project, activities should
(as in the World Bank assisted India: Ecodevelopment Project) comply with the following
criteria:
Conserve biodiversity either directly or indirectly by creating sufficient incentives to
commit local people to specific, measurable actions that improve conservation
(beneficiary communities should be aware of the link between the proposed investment
and its activities, and conservation of PA resources);
Provide equitable share of benefits to and mitigate negative impacts on tribals,
women and poor disadvantaged groups who are currently most dependent on the PA;
Add supplemental resources in cases where alternative non-project sources of funding
and support are not readily available;
Be socially and institutionally feasible ensuring that associated activities are culturally
acceptable and that local institutional capacity is adequate to organize resource
management, distribute benefits from common resources, provide physical maintenance,
keep accounts, meet contribution requirements, and monitor the project's impact;
Be low cost and financially feasible, e.g., costs are within norms or approved by the
project manager, returns are sufficient to compensate for PA resources foregone, and, for
all investments intended to produce cash revenue or benefits that can be monetized,
market linkages are adequate, cash flow requirements are viable, and returns compare
favorably with alternative investment options;
Activities with training, community organization and other inherent capacity building
should also receive high priority for funding;
Be technically feasible, e.g., inputs and technical advice are adequate; physical
conditions are suitable; activity is technically sound;
Be environmental sustainable, and avoid detrimental environmental impacts such as
overuse of agrochemicals or detrimental construction activity;
5


﻿Be selected and owned by local communities, as ensured by a budgetary constraint
mechanism, co-financing or contribution requirement, and a commitment by the
community to bear recurrent maintenance costs of any infrastructure component; and
Be consistent with the objectives of the PA Management Plan.
Lessons learned from other conservation/development projects has validated the importance of
requiring some form of cost sharing for investments intended to benefit local people, including
extremely poor households, since it builds commitment and ownership on the part of stakeholders
and strengthens the likelihood of sustainability. Therefore, the project should establish clear and
transparent contribution requirements. To this end, it is recommended that:
local people should contribute to the costs of regular village microplan investments,
including community-oriented activities, to be deposited in the specially constituted
VCF;
there should be no upper limit to the amount a community can contribute and deposit
in the VCF;
the project should match village contributions up to a given amount per community,
with the upper limit to be decided at project start-up;
the total investment cost should be calculated as the sum of all resources, cash and
non-cash; the value of labor and other in-kind" contributions would be calculated on
the basis of local market value;
to build ownership and long-term sustainability, all village investments (from the
project and if feasible also from other sources) would flow through the VCF, thereby
encouraging the beneficiary community to seek co-financing and fund-leveraging
through the provision of loans for approved community investments and other needs.
Over time, this financing management system can continuously build and sustain
community fiscal resources.
To finalize these criteria, the project will meet with community committees and village leaders to
discuss enabling criteria and institutional mechanisms, and to set mutually acceptable criteria that
are consistent across each PA. It is important to ensure the community micro-plans are gender
sensitive and include benefits to and input from marginal subgroups. Special approaches will be
required to ensure involvement by women or to prevent special interests from dominating the
micro-planning process. Communities will be trained in micro-planning procedures, so that they
can assume increasingly greater responsibilities as the 5-year project proceeds. However, given
project budgetary constraints, the total microplan investment in each village should be computed
on the basis of a standard per household cost, which should not exceed Rs.12,400 (US$250 in
1999 prices) over the 5-year project life.
The project will establish procedures to screen requested resource management or income-
generating microplan investments to ensure that they are technically feasible, likely to generate
supplementaty income, and comply with biodiversity conservation goals. Decisions regarding the
priority investments will be made by mutual consent of the VCC and PMT, with the endorsement
of the PMC. If required by budgetary or implementation capacity constraints, proposed activities
would be prioritized based on their expected positive impact on biodiversity conservation and
livelihood restoration related to restrictions in resource access within the PAs. Examples of
appropriate resource management and micro-enterprise activities include: improved agricultural
practices, minor irrigation and erosion protection works, processing of agricultural products,
medicinal and non-timber forest produce, energy conservation measures, and skills development
6


﻿in non-farm enterprises such as cottage industries, bee keeping, sericulture and eco-tourism.
Some of these activities would require access to credit and establishment of market linkages.
5.     Monitoring and evaluation: A monitoring system will be designed to provide for
continuous learning and adjustment of approach, and will involve participatory monitoring based
on self-defined indicators (by community focus groups, VCCs, PMTs), input and output
monitoring data from the PMT and PMU, impact/outcome monitoring by an independent
monitoring agency (for midterm review and ICR), and Bank supervision. A framework for
monitoring will be developed before project implementation begins, which will include
description of the institutional arrangements and processes incorporating participatory monitoring
and learning systems, selection of indicators, sampling methods, interval and intensity of
sampling and mechanisms for feedback and project improvement. Three areas of significance for
monitoring the achievement of project objectives will be (i) the ecological aspects of field
activities for biodiversity protection and PA management, (ii) community participation in
conservation, mitigation planning and implementation, community compliance with resource use
agreements, and the outcomes of income generation activities, and (iii) legal and institutional
frameworks impacting on project activities in the three sites. Key indicators for monitoring the
involvement of custodial communities in planning and implementation are:
(a) VCC formation, functioning and sustainability (e.g. target population knowledge about
the purpose of VCCs; inclusiveness of VCCs; transparency in decision making and financial
management; mobilization of community contributions; poverty focus and equity in activity
plans; maintenance of assets created).
(b) Community involvement in planning and implementation of PA management plans (e.g.
inputs to resource utilization mapping; participation in decision making by VCCs and
community representatives in PMTs for planning of restrictions in resource use and
mitigation measures; willingness of communities to contribute towards costs of measures to
mitigate reductions in resource access).
(c) Compliance with resource use agreements by communities (e.g. number of affected
households complying with or violating different types of restriction; role of VCCs
community representatives in PMTs in ensuring compliance; attitudes of community
members utilizing resources covered by restrictions; role of locally employed PA staff).
(d) Income generation outcomes (e.g. changes in the incomes of households affected by
restrictions in resource access; whether benefits from income generation accrue to those
affected by the restrictions in resource access; and whether income generation alternatives are
culturally compatible and acceptable to the affected communities).
(e) Efficacy of conflict resolution and grievance redress arrangements (e.g. type and number
of conflicts resolved or pending; processing time; type of grievance redress process applied).
7


