Report No. PID4681
Project Name                     Pakistan-GEF-Protected Areas Management (@)
Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       PKGE35823
Borrower(s)                      GOP
Implementing Agency
Address MELGRD
Ministry of Environment, Local Government
and Rural Development (MELGRD)
9th Floor, UBL Building, Blue Area, Islamabad
Contact Person: Mr. Kalimullah Shirazi,
Deputy Secretary
Tel: (92-51) 9202960
Fax: (92-51) 9205883
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 13, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 10, 1997
Projected Board Date             April 1, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues:Loss of habitats and species: The primary issues in the
sector involve the rapid loss of habitat leading to depletion of species,
populations and genetic diversity. Habitat loss, fragmentation and
degradation are the principal causes of the present high rate of
extinction mainly due to deforestation, grazing, fodder collection and
soil erosion. Deforestation in Pakistan has reduced the area of natural
and modified coniferous, scrub, riverain and mangrove forests to 4t of the
land area of the country. Pakistan's woody biomass is also declining at a
rate of 4-6w per year (Government of Pakistan 1992 and Hosier 1993).
Rapidly increasing domestic livestock population has led to persistent
overgrazing. Soil erosion is exacerbated due to a reduction in forest
cover, agriculture and overstocking (some 11 million hectares of Pakistan
are affected by water erosion and 2 million hectares by wind erosion). The
result of these activities is the rapid loss of habitat for several key
species. In recent decades several species such as the Asiatic Cheetah and
Indian Wild Ass have become extinct due to habitat loss. Although changes
in habitat quality produce less dramatic results than habitat loss, they
may alter the quality of the habitat in such a way as to reduce or
threaten the number of species and their populations. Habitat
fragmentation has also increased the risk of extinction of key species in
Pakistan due to isolating small pockets of previously more connected
populations.Human use has resulted in a reduced number of species and/or
their population: Species are also adversely affected by poaching and
other factors that reduce population viability. Hunting, for which there
is a strong tradition in Pakistan, has seriously affected several
charismatic species including threatened bird populations, such as the
Houbara Bustard. Over-fishing is another underlying cause for species loss



because marine catches have steadily increased. This has also caused
damage to other species such as turtles along the coast of Hingol National
Park, which are killed by commercial fishing trawlers.Weak implementation
capacity of environmental agencies: Although the Government of Pakistan
has established environmental agencies at both national and provincial
levels, these are relatively new, lack clarity over implementation
responsibilities, face a severe shortage of properly trained personnel and
have little enforcement capacity. The Protected Area (PA) system, in
particular, is an apt example of these weaknesses. Of the 219 PAs in
Pakistan, most exist only on paper. Management plans are few, and where
they exist they are almost invariably technically deficient. Further,
management of PAs is widely seen as policed management with little or no
active participation of local communities. Physical demands on existing
staff and equipment levels are high for example, the ratio of area
conserved per staff member reaches up to 7,537 ha. per staff member in
Balochistan; and equipment for surveillance, monitoring and management is
inadequate. Recent Government of Pakistan initiatives are attempting to
address these public sector deficiencies with external assistance
support.Lack of information and awareness: The lack of adequate baseline
information on biodiversity resources in PAs is another factor that
hinders biodiversity conservation. No inventories of plant and animal
species in PAs have, as yet, been undertaken. This restricts an accurate
analysis of populations of key species, changes in their numbers over a
period of time and the effect of conservation initiatives. Awareness
building mechanisms for increasing public support toward conservation
issues are also restricted; although supported by several Non Governmental
Organizations, a larger audience needs to be targeted than at present to
build widespread support for conservation activities.Government
Strategy:To date, Government of Pakistan strategy on conservation of
biodiversity has been defined by the establishment of an institutional
framework, development of some legal and policy guidelines and the
establishment of a PA system. The institutional structure essentially
consists of two tiers federal and provincial. The Federal Government is
responsible for overall policy and planning, inter-provincial and
territorial coordination and international liaison for environmental
concerns. Wildlife and Protected Areas issues are coordinated through the
Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development's (MELGRD)
National Council for Conservation of Wildlife (NCCW). Set up in 1974, it
is currently developing a database on PAs in Pakistan. The office of the
Inspector General of Forests in the Ministry conducts all policy and
coordination and liaison matters related to forests, rangelands and
wildlife management. A branch of the Zoological Survey Department, which
advises Government of Pakistan on the status of key species, is based at
Karachi.In general, biodiversity conservation is the responsibility of the
provincial governments. At the provincial level, institutions vary in
structure, budgets and implementation capacity. In North West Frontier
Province (NWFP), Balochistan and Northern Areas, wildlife is administered
through the Wildlife Division a branch of the Forestry Department. In
Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), the Department of Tourism, Wildlife,
Archeology and Fisheries has this responsibility. In Sindh, an active
Wildlife Conservation Board (SWCB) exists and has undertaken several
special conservation projects with the collaboration of International
Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and World Wide Fund for Nature
(WWF). The SWCB pursues vigorous and encouraging attitudes to wildlife
conservation and ensures political awareness to conservation issues.
- 2 -



After Punjab, Sindh also has the highest budget for wildlife management
(Rs.29 million in FY1998), followed by NWFP (Rs.21 million). The principal
policy stance on biodiversity conservation is presented in the National
Conservation Strategy (NCS) of 1992. The NCS called for a national policy
on wildlife management, strengthening of the PA system and improving the
legal and policy instruments to promote conservation of biodiversity.
Within the policy arena, Government of Pakistan has been active in the
preparation of a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), which has been completed
recently with GEF support. The BAP recommends the expansion of the
information base on biodiversity, strengthening in situ conservation
through PAs and other means, promotion of sustainable use of biodiversity
resources, creation of incentive measures for conserving biodiversity,
improving research and training, monitoring impacts of policies and
projects on biodiversity and developing long-term financial mechanisms for
conserving biodiversity. Similarly, the updated Forestry and Wildlife
Policy of 1991 emphasizes the need to reduce deforestation, conserve
forests and biological diversity, promote social forestry and contain
environmental degradation in watersheds and catchment areas. The broad
policy framework is, therefore, a key indication of Government of Pakistan'
s recognition of the importance of biodiversity conservation. The policy
framework is supported by legislation on biodiversity conservation that
has been enacted mainly at the provincial level. Provincial legislation
includes: Sindh Wildlife Protection Ordinance (1972), Punjab Wildlife Act
(1974), Balochistan Wildlife Protection Act (1974), North West Frontier
Province Wildlife Act (1975), Northern Areas Wildlife Protection Act
(1975), Azad Jammu and Kashmir Wildlife Preservation Act (1975), and
Islamabad Wildlife Ordinance (1979). However, Pakistan's major initiative
in preserving biodiversity rests in a system of Protected Areas.
Categorized as national parks (10), wildlife sanctuaries (82), game
reserves (83) and private unclassified reserves (14). The provincial
governments collectively had spent approximately Rs.170 million in FY1998
on managing PAs. At this level of expenditure the lack of enforcement
capacity and enabling management biodiversity conservation remains a
critical concern. The recent economic deterioration of the country has
only placed further pressure on the Government to reduce budgets for the
protected areas system.
2. Objectives
To conserve globally important habitats and species in three PAs of
Pakistan (Chitral Gol in NWFP, Machiara in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and
Hingol in Balochistan) encompassing mountain, arid rangeland, estuarine
and marine ecosystems.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Global Environment Facility (GEF) support is vital for enabling the
project to conserve globally important species in the three Protected
Areas. Without its support, the population of several globally important
species in each PA will dwindle as a result of existing conditions and as
their habitat is degraded or destroyed. In addition, the GEF's support to
these PAs adds value to biodiversity conservation at a regional level.
Since the selected PAs offer a wintering ground for several endangered
species of migratory birds, improved protection of their habitat will
increase the chances of survival for these bird species. With other
conservation efforts planned in the sector, GEF's support will have a
leveraging impact on other initiatives such as the proposed
-3 -



UNDP-supported wetlands conservation project and implementation of the
pilot project on Maintaining Biodiversity in Pakistan (in Northern Areas).
The project provides an opportunity to test a replicable model of PA
management that will conserve threatened and vulnerable biodiversity and
promote the sustainable management of natural resources.Under the baseline
scenario, the provincial governments would continue to provide the current
or even a reduced level of funding for the traditionally weak PA
management system, except possibly in the case of NWFP. Human encroachment
and degradation of core areas would continue, quite likely leading to the
loss of key charismatic species such as the snow leopard and the Kashmir
Markhor (a species with a narrow distribution) or the more widely
distributed western Tragopan pheasant. The extent of degradation would
vary but is likely to be pervasive in all PAs. With GEF funding,
Government of Pakistan would be able to supplement its ongoing efforts and
develop efficiently managed PAs in which local communities are a leading
management force along with NGOs. In addition, the PAs could serve as a
model for replicability for other PAs in Pakistan.The project benefits
from the Bank's experience of involvement in forest and agricultural
policy development in Pakistan and fills an important niche in the
existing program of activities, particularly in the natural resources
sector, currently being pursued by the Bank under the direction of the
Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank Group has already supported projects
in various sectors with components to improve the environment or to
rehabilitate and develop natural resources. In the agriculture sector,
World Bank projects have focused on correcting waterlogging and salinity.
For example, these include Salinity Control and Reclamation Project VI
(SCARP VI), SCARP Mardan, Drainage IV, Leftbank Outfall Drain, Private
Tubewells Development, and Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Irrigation and Drainage
Projects. Arising from inadequate irrigation drainage, reversing
deforestation and de-pasturing Punjab Forestry Sector Project and securing
watersheds and rangelands protection Hill Farming and Technical
Development Project, Integrated Hill Farming Development Project,
Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project, Balochistan
Natural Resource Management Project and Punjab Forest Sector Development
Project. At the federal and provincial levels, the Bank has supported
institutional development and capacity building through the Environment
Protection and Resource Conservation Project, and the Balochistan Natural
Resource Management Project. The proposed project consolidates the Bank's
efforts in the sector by conserving biodiversity within PAs.The Bank Group'
s other projects in the energy, private sector development, health,
education and social sectors comprise the range of its activities in
Pakistan. In particular, the Social Action Program Project allows the
integration of human resource development and community participation.
This will be a key source of support for alternative income generation
activities in the proposed project. The proposed project, therefore,
consolidates and enhances existing Bank's efforts in Pakistan and in the
sector.
4. Description
The proposed project would support the following major activities:
1. Protected Areas Biodiversity Management
1.1 Integration of Custodial Communities/Development of Park Management
Plans & Strategies
1.2 Improvement of Park Infrastructure
1.3 Improvement of Park Operations
- 4-



1.4 Research, Habitat Improvement & Wildlife Enrichment
1.5 Public Environmental Awareness and Outreach
2. Sustainability of Park Management
3. Human Resource Development
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       10.75
6. Implementation
The project will follow a decentralized approach to implementation. The
implementing authorities at AJK and the provincial level will act
autonomously from each other. At each site level, the project will have a
Project Director, chosen from the respective implementation agency, who
will be based in the provincial capital. The Project Director for Chitral
Gol will be a Chief Forester-level officer based in Chitral. In AJK, the
Director General of Tourism, Wildlife, Archeology and Fisheries located at
Muzzaffarabad will assume this role and in Balochistan, the Chief
Conservator of Forests, located at Quetta will act as the Project
Director. Each implementing agency will designate a small number of
full-time staff, including an accountant, for the project.In order to
facilitate participation of local communities, the project will form
Village Conservation Committees (VCCs) at the village level or for each
cluster of hamlets. All households in a village would be members of the
VCC and would be responsible for nominating 3-7 members to serve as
officers of the VCC. Existing community-based organizations (CBOs) will be
used wherever feasible in terms of their functions, composition and
representativeness.. A Project Management Team (PMT) will be constituted
at each site to provide the technical and planning inputs for implementing
project activities. The PMT will be in a position to continue to function
beyond the project period as a PMT, with the same composition of
implementing agency staff and community representatives, but without the
Technical Assistance (TA) staff . The PMT will be a tripartite entity
consisting of Park Manager (Team Leader), TA entity, and representatives
of the custodial communities. The PMT's primary responsibilities will
include (i) information dissemination, social mobilization and formation
of village-level institutions, (ii) the design and conducting of
biological field surveys as well as social and resource utilization
surveys, (iii) formulation of a management plan for the PA in conjunction
with local communities, (iv) implementation of habitat improvement
measures in conjunction with local communities, (v) implementation of
community development and income generation activities to mitigate
limitations in access to resources in the PAs. and (v) monitoring of
community and conservation activities . All management arrangements and
community microplan investments at the local level will be detailed in
legal agreements between the VCCs and the PMT. In addition, the PMT will
coordinate with other development projects through the Local Advisory
Committee (LAC) or any existing coordinating arrangement.Community
representation in the PMT will reflect the major stakeholders (e.g.
villages and ethnic groups) whose resource utilization has an influence on
the planned conservation in the PA. The community representatives in the
PMT will be nominated by the VCCs, and will help coordinate community
participation and investment strategies at the level of the park and its
vicinity. Their primary responsibilities will include interacting with
VCCs, and ensuring that approved microplan investments and community-based
- 5 -



park management activities are implemented according to agreements
reached. They would also nominate suitable persons to attend training
courses in order to build local capacity to plan and implement agreed
activities. Overlapping or conflicting claims to resources by
stakeholders are likely to come out in the open during the participatory
resource mapping and planning exercise. If such disputes cannot be solved
by the PMT and the concerned VCCs, the project will pursue arbitration
under an arrangement which closely resembles customary conflict
resolution. Each party to the conflict nominates one representative who
then agrees on an independent mediator/arbitrator to facilitate reaching a
compromise. The decision mediated by the arbitrator and agreed to by the
two representatives of the conflicting parties will be binding. Local
Advisory Committees (LACs) were formed during project preparation and will
continue to function during implementation. Each LAC will comprise
representatives of the PMT, the local communities, local government, NGOs
and related rural support agencies. The LAC's role will be to ensure
integration of project activities in the overall development strategies
and activities in the three project areas. LACs will liaise with other
governmental and development agencies active in the area to where possible
coordinate project implementation and access resources from other
programs.Upstream of the PMT, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be
constituted at the provincial level for policy advice and guidance. The
PSC will be composed of senior representatives of government agencies
responsible for forestry, environment, agriculture, local government,
land, etc., and conservation NGOs and specialist groups.At the federal
level, coordination in terms of ensuring consistency in approach,
dissemination of lessons and experiences, overall wildlife policy and
priorities, etc., will be provided by the Federal Steering Committee
(FSC). Activities that could be undertaken more cost effectively by being
organized at the federal level will be arranged by the Ministry of
Environment, Local Government and Rural Development (MELGRD). These will
include workshops, seminars on information sharing and lessons learnt from
all three sites, specialized training and dissemination and impact
monitoring and evaluation of activities. Private/Public Interaction: To
secure the financial sustainability of project activities, a non-profit
Park Association will be established in the second or third year of
operation. To be fully operational, the Trust will be expected to generate
matching funds from in-country sources in order to avail project funds
allocated for this purpose. A volunteer Board of Directors (15-30 members)
will be constituted to administer the Trust. The Board will develop, in
collaboration with its initial principal donors, an internationally
accepted mission, objectives, laws and operating procedures for the Park
Association. The precise financial and institutional arrangements for the
management of the Trust will be finalized following technical assistance
provided under the project for designing the Trust.Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E): The monitoring exercise will be designed to provide for
continuous learning and adjustment of approach, and will involve
participatory monitoring based on self-defined indicators (by community
focus groups, VCCs, PMTs), input and output monitoring data from the PMT
and PMU, impact/outcome monitoring by an independent monitoring agency
(for midterm review and Implementation Completion Report), and Bank
supervision. A framework for monitoring will be developed early during
project implementation, which will include description of the
institutional arrangements and processes incorporating participatory
monitoring and learning systems, selection of indicators, sampling
- 6 -



methods, interval and intensity of sampling and mechanisms for feedback
and project improvement. Three areas of significance for monitoring the
achievement of project objectives will be (i) the ecological aspects of
field activities for biodiversity protection and PA management, (ii)
community participation in conservation, mitigation planning and
implementation, community compliance with resource use agreements, and the
outcomes of income generation activities, and (iii) legal and
institutional frameworks impacting on project activities in the three
sites. Key indicators for monitoring these categories will include:(i)
Ecological aspects: Although the changes in numbers of rare species are
difficult to identify within the life span of the project, the overall
monitoring for ecological aspects will determine if the project has
succeeded in slowing the rate of loss of vulnerable flora and fauna, and
attempt to evaluate the potential increase in population density and range
of some threatened species. Specifically, M&E activities will investigate
maintenance of populations of animals, reduction of hunting, reduction of
livestock inside the PAs, extent of successful rehabilitation of habitats
and land, success in species re-introduction and level of in situ
breeding. Quantifiable indicators will be used to monitor the success of
the project. Methods of monitoring will include inventories, surveys,
transect sampling, site evidence, and game warden records. (ii) Community
participation and socio-economic aspects will be monitored through
indicators regarding: (a) VCC formation, functioning and sustainability
(e.g. target population knowledge about the purpose of VCCs; inclusiveness
of VCCs; transparency in decision making and financial management;
mobilization of community contributions; poverty focus and equity in
activity plans; maintenance of assets created).(b) Community involvement
in planning and implementation of PA management plans (e.g. inputs to
resource utilization mapping; participation in decision making by VCCs and
community representatives in PMTs for planning of restrictions in resource
use and mitigation measures; willingness of communities to contribute
towards costs of measures to mitigate reductions in resource access).(c)
Compliance with resource use agreements by communities (e.g. number of
affected households complying with or violating different types of
restriction; role of VCCs community representatives in PMTs in ensuring
compliance; attitudes of community members utilizing resources covered by
restrictions; role of locally employed PA staff).(d) Income generation
outcomes (e.g. changes in the incomes of households affected by
restrictions in resource access; whether benefits from income generation
accrue to those affected by the restrictions in resource access; and
whether income generation alternatives are culturally compatible and
acceptable to the affected communities).(e) Efficacy of conflict
resolution and grievance redress arrangements (e.g. type and number of
conflicts resolved or pending; processing time; type of grievance redress
process applied).(iii) Institutional impacts: Monitoring of institutional
impacts will evaluate the training of staff, increase in surveillance,
enforcement of controls on harmful use of the PA and frequency of
interagency collaboration. Other measures to monitor institutional aspects
will include the management of the Park Association and the level of
domestic and international contributions collected for it.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of project intervention is assured through various means,
including (i) financial mechanisms to cover the recurrent costs of
activities through a Endowment Fund, which will itself be sustained
- 7 -



through fund-raising activities within the country; (ii) establishment of
grassroots institutions, which will empower local communities to conserve
biodiversity within PAs; (iii) building capacity within provincial
agencies for effective management of PAs without increasing the total
number of staff unduly and (iv) creating awareness of the importance of
conservation. The project faces the risk of increasing the expectations of
local communities regarding the levels of expected income from tourism and
other activities. Tourism may not provide adequate income generation to
create the necessary incentives for people to honor agreements controlling
resource use. The project will aim to manage this risk through creating a
Endowment Fund that will support, among other initiatives, alternative
income-generating programs as an incentive mechanism for local communities
to satisfy the agreements on resource use. Another risk involves the
potential for escalating tensions between communities on resource-sharing
arrangements. This is particularly true for Chitral Gol, where several
ethnic groups are stakeholders in the project. The project will include
this risk in timing the pace of establishing community structures. Special
attention will need to be given to establishing a consensus on
restrictions placed on resource use and access to resources before
formalizing them, so that common consent to respect these arrangements is
in place.Another risk is posed by the lack of community organizations in
communities around Hingol NP. In particular, the female population in
Hingol is not easily approached due to tribal and traditional practices.
The risk that community organizations will not involve all key
stakeholders is, therefore, a relatively high risk in Hingol. The project
aims to pace activities in this area at a slow rate, which will allow
local communities to organize effectively and to facilitate the
involvement of women by using NGOs that have experience dealing with
participation and gender issues in similar circumstances.The process of
public participation may increase local conflicts in communities affected
by the project. Conflicts on sharing of resources, limits on resource use
and on access to alternative income generation activities are possible.
The diversity of communities may pose as the backdrop for these conflicts
and consensus building on sharing of resources may prove to be difficult.
To manage this risk, the project will involve NGOs and Community Based
Organizations active in the area to organize appropriate fora for
discussion and to assist communities decide on resource sharing and
conflict resolution arrangements. Another possible risk faced by the
project is that alternative means for meeting people's dependence on
natural resources (set aside cultivation plots, forest plantations for
fuelwood) may take a long period of time to be fully operational and
effective. Benefits from these activities and from ensuing reduction in PA
use may not appear until the later stages of the project. These activities
will need to be closely programmed, monitored and enforced. Additionally,
people may not respect restrictions on resource use or honor the
agreements that place curbs on their access to the PA. This may result in
raising people's income through income-generating activities with no
corresponding reduction in harmful resource use. The project will approach
this risk by vesting the responsibility for compliance with VCCs and
monitored by the PMC. The VCCs are likely to exert peer pressure on
sections of the community who violate agreements on resource use. During
the life of the project, revenue disbursement arrangements could be
structured to ensure that funds are disbursed fully once the community has
complied with the village agreements. These risks are real and have the
potential to effect the project's success.
- 8-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Establishing clear linkages between economic benefits and resource
conservation (India: Ecodevelopment Project and Palas Conservation
Project): Long-term sustained economic benefits from conservation such as
through tourism and employment in PA management are essential to ensure
the sustainability of project interventions. The Ecodevelopment Project in
India has also highlighted that support for alternative livelihoods and
provision of alternative means to meet benefits derived from PAs must be
contingent on cost sharing by local communities. This lesson is
incorporated in the proposed project by establishing reciprocal agreements
with communities regarding continued limited resource use, and community
contributions to mitigation measures to offset loss of resource access in
PAs.Building understanding and consensus among stakeholders (Palas
Conservation Project and Punjab Forestry Sector Project): A key lesson
from the other projects in the sector is the need to build consensus among
stakeholders on project objectives, activities and roles. In the proposed
project, mechanisms for consensus building created at the preparation
stage (such as LACs) will be continued during the implementation phase.
For consensus building on resource use at the sites, PMCs will function as
dispute-resolving and benefit-sharing entities.Providing start up funding,
appropriate asset management arrangements and assessing the legal
framework for the establishment of a Trust Fund (Bhutan Trust Fund for
Environmental Conservation Project): The Bhutan Trust Fund Project has
highlighted the value of having reliable funding available during the
initial stages of a trust fund establishment, so that it does not depend
on investment income. The project will apply this lesson through investing
US$2 million for initial seed money for the Park Association. In addition,
the project will support a study during the second year of its operation
to advise on optimal asset management arrangements and assessment of the
existing legal framework to institutionalize collaboration between donors
and recipients, make decision making and implementation transparent and
make management accountable.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        In accordance with the World Bank's Operational
Guidelines on environmental assessment, the project is classified as
Category B, because it is anticipated that there will be no irreversible
adverse impacts on the environment. On the contrary, the project is
expected to contribute to improving environmental benefits by supporting
the management of existing pressures on biological resources in three
PAs. Project activities are expected to produce wide-scale beneficial
impacts, by protecting habitats, population of threatened and vulnerable
species and promoting the sustainable use of resources within the PAs and
their buffer zones. The alternative income-generating activities planned
under the project will be designed to ensure that they benefit
biodiversity conservation. These activities are aimed at reducing or
managing existing pressures that threaten biodiversity in the three PAs,
and might include handicrafts, sericulture, apiculture, bee-keeping, value
added of medicinal and non-timber forest products, etc. Other project
activities, such as awareness raising, training and capacity building,
will also have beneficial environmental impacts by raising public support
for biodiversity conservation and improving the skills for PA
management.Adverse environmental impacts of project activities are
-9-



expected to be minimal or negligible. No major infrastructure development
or construction activities will be undertaken by the project. Small-scale
improvements to trails, camp sites and water and wastewater disposal
envisaged under the project will be planned carefully to avoid soil
disturbance. Improvement activities will be undertaken in the dry season
to avoid any possibility of soil erosion. Income-generation activities
which are expected to be small, labor intensive, based on local materials
and low technology would meet the eligibility criteria that ensures
protection of the environment. Further, information gaps in terms of
existing baseline conditions will be addressed through a focused,
cost-effective applied research program that also seeks to demonstrate new
approaches to resource protection and sustainable harvesting of forest
products. Monitoring and evaluation of project activities and impacts
will provide continuos feedback to the project and allow for adjustments
to ensure a positive impact on biodiversity.Public consultation on the
project concept, objectives and design were undertaken with
representatives of all community groups as an integral part of project
preparation. Additional consultations were held with representatives of
provincial and local level government agencies, NGOs and related
professionals on identification of local dependencies on PA resources,
identification of natural resource use patterns, mitigation measures and
potential risks associated with likely investments. Public consultation
was undertaken through stakeholder consultation meetings, structured
interviews, informal discussion, etc.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Najib Murtaza
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: 5722-320
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
The project has been substantially strengthened from a recent re-visit of
the project design, which is reflected in the strengthening of the process
framework for improving participation of custodial communities in park
management and conservation. This process framework is available as a
separate document in the infoshop.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 10 -



