Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22015-PK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.831 MILLION (US$10.08 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
GEF-PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
March 23, 2001
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2001)
Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee
SDR 1.28723 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = Pakistan Rupees (Rs.) 57.58
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJK         Azad Jammu and Kashmir                   NP           National Park
AKRSP       Aga Khan Rural Support Programme         NTFPs        Non-timber forest products
AKLASC    Azad Kashmir Logging and Sawmill           NWFP         North West Frontier Province
Corporation
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy              OP/BP/OD    Operational Procedures/Bank Policy/Operational
Directive
CBD         Conventional Biological Diversity        PAMIA        Project Areas Mutual Interaction Assessment
CBOs        Community-based organizations            PAs          Protected Areas
EA          Environmental Assessment                 PIP          Project Implementation Plan
EMP         Environmental Management Plan            PMR          Project Monitoring Reporting
FSC         Federal Steering Committee               PMT          Project Management Team
GEF         Global Environment Facility              PMU          Project Management Unit
GOP         Government of Pakistan                   PRA          Participatory Rural Approach
ICR         Implementation Completion Report         PSC          Project Steering Committee
IUCN        International Union for Conservation of  QBS          Quality-based Selection
Nature and Natural Resources
LAC         Local Advisory Committee                 QCBS         Quality and Cost-based Selection
MELGRD    Ministry of Environment, Local Government  SA           Social Assessment
and Rural Development
MOP         Memorandum of the President (World Bank)  SOE         Statement of Expenditure
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding              SWCB         Sindh Wildlife Conservation Board
NBF         Not Bank Financed                        UNDP         United Nations Development Program
NCCW        National Council for Conservation of Wildlife VCCs    Village Conservation Committees
NCS         National Conservation Strategy           VCF          Village Conservation Fund
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations           VOs          Village Organizations
WWF          World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    John Wall
Sector Manager/Director:       Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader:        Najib Murtaza



PAKISTAN
GEF-PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        7
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                             16
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            18
2. Financial                                                                           19
3. Technical                                                                           20
4. Institutional                                                                       20
5. Environmental                                                                       24
6. Social                                                                              25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     31
2. Critical risks                                                                      32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      33



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            33
2. Other                                                                               34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         78
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           79
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    90
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       100
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     110
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   III
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  112
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            115
Annex 2a: Social Analysis and Participatory Approach
Annex 2b: Enviromnental Issues
MAP(S)
IBRD 31282: Protected Areas of Chitral Gol, Hingol, and Machiara National Parks



PAKISTAN
GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Rural Development Unit
Date: March 23, 2001                               Team Leader: Najib Murtaza
Country Manager/Director: John Wall                Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
Project ID: P035823                                Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                       Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ j Loan     [ 1 Credit    [X] Grant    [ Guarantee       [1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         0.67            0.00          0.67
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                      5.35            4.73         10.08
Total:                                                           6.02            4.73         10.75
Borrower/Recipient: GOP
Responsible agency: MELGRD
Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development (MELGRD)
Address: 9th Floor, UBL Building, Blue Area, Islamabad
Contact Person: Mr. Kalimullah Shirazi, Deputy Secretary
Tel: (92-51) 9202960                Fax: (92-51) 9205883                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
(i)Tourism, Wildlife, Archeology and Fisheries Department, Government of Azad Jammu & Kashmir
(ii) Wildlife Department, Government of NWFP
(iii) Environment, Livestock, Wildlife, Forests and Tourism Department, Government of Balochistan
Address: (i) Chella Bandi, Muzaffarabad, AJK (ii) Shami Road, Peshawar (iii) Spinny Road, Quetta
Contact Person: (i) AJK - Mr. Yousaf Qureshi, Deputy Director (Fisheries)
(ii) NWFP - Dr. Muhammad Mumtaz Malik, Conservator of Wildlife
(iii) Balochistan - Mr. Manzoor Ahmed, Conservator of Forests
Tel: (i) AJK - (92-58810) 42281/43699, (ii) NWFP - (92-91) 9211479, (iii) Balochistan - (92-81) 9202547
Fax: (i) AJK- (92-58810) 46012, (ii) NWFP - (92-91) 9212090, (iii) Balochistan - (92-81) 9201.139
Email: (i) AJK - yousaf@wildlife.isb.sndpk.org, (ii) not available, (iii) Balochistan - mzramdcf@,qta.paknet.com.pk
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002        2003       2004       2005       2006       2007
Annual    0.42         1.87       2.29       2.00       2.14       1.36  _
Cumulative    0.42        2.29       4.58        6.58      8.72      10.08
Project implementation period: 5 years.
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 2001; Expected closing date: June 30, 2006
CS PAD Fam R.  Mmh 20O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To conserve globally important habitats and species in three Protected Areas (PAs) of Pakistan (Chitral
Gol in NWFP, Machiara in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Hingol in Balochistan) encompassing
mountain, arid rangeland, estuarine and marine ecosystems.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Active conservation of habitats and species and reduction in loss of threatened species and vulnerable
vegetation types in three PAs by the end of the project and improved implementation capacity of
government technical departments and local participatory community institutions.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: R98-307           Date of latest CAS discussion: Jan 21, 1999
The CAS identifies the deterioration of Pakistan's natural resources as a key concern, and rough estimates
attribute partial costs of environmental damage and pollution to the economy at about 3% of GDP per year.
The conservation of Pakistan's natural resources, including biological diversity, is an urgent priority if
resource degradation is to be contained. The proposed project will contribute to this goal by achieving the
conservation of several globally important species and their habitats in the three PAs.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project complies with the GEF's Operational Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation by choosing
sites that are representative, threatened and globally important. Within the GEF's Operational Program
based on ecosystems, the chosen sites correspond to semi-arid, coastal, marine, forest and mountain
ecosystems. The chosen sites also correspond to the underlying reasons for developing the Operational
Program in these selected ecosystems - species diversity, endemism and degree of threat. Species diversity
is evident from the variety of flora and fauna that exist within each PA site, a good measure of which is the
number of bird species. The Machiara NP, for example, has 255 bird species while Chitral Gol and Hingol
contain 199 and 168 bird species, respectively. Given the lack of detailed inventories, it is difficult to
provide the exact number of floral and faunal diversity, but all sites are situated in ecosystems that are
valued by local, national and global studies as containing species richness (ref. studies conducted by WWF
1993, ICBP 1992 and Mallon 1991). Machiara, located in the Moist and Dry Temperate Himalayan
Forest, is a global hotspot for avian diversity and an important wildlife habitat while Hingol NP consists of
a subtropical scrub that is rich in associated flora and coastal semi-desert noted for species that thrive in
extreme conditions. While species endemism is low in Pakistan, the proportion of restricted range species
is very high and for many of these species, Pakistan contains the bulk of the global population. The selected
sites contain several of the endemic, threatened and vulnerable species, especially birds. Machiara and
Chitral Gol also comprise part of the Western Himalayan Endemic Bird Areas (ICBP). These sites also
comply with the GEF's emphasis on conserving threatened species and ecosystems because they contain
habitats for several vulnerable and threatened species identified in the latest "IUCN Red list of Threatened
Animals" (1996). See report on Rapid Surveys of Shortlisted PAs in project files, for a fuller description of
threatened, vulnerable and endemic species. Several species found in the selected sites are also listed in the
Bonn Convention as threatened or vulnerable. Further, the project addresses operational concerns identified
in the GEF Operational Strategy in the following respects: (i) priorities were country driven; (ii) meeting
incremental costs; (iii) providing leveraged long-term financing through the establishment of a special Park
- 2-



Association comprising of an endowment fund; and (iv) incorporating an objective monihoring and
evaluation process that would be continued beyond the life of the project.
The project also addresses several key issues identified in the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
Specific aspects of the project that address issues related to the CBD include conserving in situ biodiversity
(habitats and species), strengthening ecosystem conservation in semi-arid and mountainous regions,
involving local and indigenous peoples in sustainable resource conservation and promoting the protection of
globally significant species and the sustainable use of endemic species. In particular, the project
corresponds to:
Article 6 on Measures for Conservation and Sustainable Use (contribution to the development of
strategy or plan on biodiversity conservation);
* Article 8 on In Situ Conservation (enhancing Protected Areas management, management and
rehabilitation of degraded areas, monitoring and conflict management in PAs);
* Article 11 on Incentive Measures (involvement of local communities, capacity building, education
and property rights);
Article 13 on Public Education and Awareness.
Further, the project also responds to the guidance provided by the various Conference of Parties on the
Convention on Biological Diversity (COPs). It specifically responds to the COP3 held in 1996 with
emphasis on supporting projects aimed at providing socioeconomic incentives at the local, national and
GEF levels. Through regulating land and forest use, the project responds to COPs call for developing and
managing sustainable land and forest use practices. Its institutional strengthening and awareness raising
components respond to COPs emphasis on capacity building. Within the COPs guidance on terrestrial
biodiversity, this project supports the guidance on mitigation of harmful human impacts cn forest
biodiversity, addressing the underlying causes of biodiversity loss, development and use of criteria and
indicators for monitoring forest use and filling gaps in forest biodiversity knowledge. Arother area of
compliance with COPs guidelines is the project's emphasis on capacity building for taxCrTLomy,
development of indicators for taxonomy and applying a "bottom up" approach to developing indicators.
COPs guidance on involvement of local communities and benefit sharing is reflected in the project's
emphasis on community involvement, its activities on altemative income generation and ensuring that
economic benefits flow to local communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
Loss of habitats and species: The primary issues in the sector involve the rapid loss of habitat leading to
depletion of species, populations and genetic diversity. Habitat loss, fragmentation antl degradation are
the principal causes of the present high rate of extinction mainly due to deforestation, grazing, fodder
collection and soil erosion. Deforestation in Pakistan has reduced the area of natural and modified
coniferous, scrub, riverine and mangrove forests to 4% of the land area of the country. 'fakistan's woody
biomass is also declining at a rate of 4-6% per year (GoP 1992 and Hosier 1993). Rapic[ly increasing
domestic livestock population has led to persistent overgrazing. Soil erosion is exacerbat;ed due to a
reduction in forest cover, agriculture and overstocking (some 11 million ha of Pakistan a re affected by
water erosion and 2 million ha by wind erosion). The result of these activities is the rapid loss of habitat for
several key species. In recent decades several species such as the Asiatic Cheetah and Indian Wild Ass have
become extinct due to habitat loss. Although changes in habitat quality produce less drariatic results than
habitat loss, they may alter the quality of the habitat in such a way as to reduce or threaten the number of
- 3 -



species and their populations. Habitat fragmentation has also increased the risk of extinction of key species
in Pakistan due to isolating small pockets of previously more connected populations.
Human use has resulted in a reduced number of species and/or their population: Species are also
adversely affected by poaching and other factors that reduce population viability. Hunting, for which there
is a strong tradition in Pakistan, has seriously affected several "charismatic" species including threatened
bird populations, such as the Houbara Bustard. Over-fishing is another underlying cause for species loss
because marine catches have steadily increased. This has also caused damage to other species such as
turtles along the coast of Hingol NP, which are killed by commercial fishing trawlers.
Weak implementation capacity of environmental agencies: Although the Government of Pakistan (GoP)
has established environmental agencies at both national and provincial levels, these are relatively new, lack
clarity over implementation responsibilities, face a severe shortage of properly trained personnel and have
little enforcement capacity. The PA system, in particular, is an apt example of these weaknesses. Of the
219 PAs in Pakistan, most exist only on paper. Management plans are few, and where they exist they are
almost invariably technically deficient. Further, management of PAs is widely seen as policed management
with little or no active participation of local communities. Physical demands on existing staff and
equipment levels are high - for example, the ratio of area conserved per staff member reaches up to 7,537
ha per staff member in Balochistan; and equipment for surveillance, monitoring and management is
inadequate. Recent GoP initiatives are attempting to address these public sector deficiencies with external
assistance support.
Lack of information and awareness: The lack of adequate baseline infornation on biodiversity resources
in PAs is another factor that hinders biodiversity conservation. No inventories of plant and animal species
in PAs have, as yet, been undertaken. This restricts an accurate analysis of populations of key species,
changes in their numbers over a period of time and the effect of conservation initiatives. Awareness
building mechanisms for increasing public support toward conservation issues are also restricted; although
supported by several NGOs, a larger audience needs to be targeted than at present to build widespread
support for conservation activities.
Government Strategy:
To date, GoP's strategy on conservation of biodiversity has been defined by the establishment of an
institutional framework, development of some legal and policy guidelines and the establishment of a
Protected Areas system.
The institutional structure essentially consists of two tiers - federal and provincial. The Federal
Government is responsible for overall policy and planning, inter-provincial and territorial coordination and
international liaison for environmental concerns. Wildlife and Protected Areas issues are coordinated
through the Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development's (MELGRD) National
Council for Conservation of Wildlife (NCCW). Set up in 1974, it is currently developing a database on
PAs in Pakistan. The office of the Inspector General of Forests in the Ministry conducts all policy and
coordination and liaison matters related to forests, rangeland and wildlife management. A branch of the
Zoological Survey Department, which advises GoP on the status of key species, is based at Karachi.
- 4 -



In general, biodiversity conservation is the responsibility of the provincial governments. At the provincial
level, institutions vary in structure, budgets and implementation capacity. In NWFP, Balochistan and
Northern Areas, wildlife is administered through the Wildlife Division - a branch of the Forestry
Department. In AJK, the Department of Tourism, Wildlife, Archeology and Fisheries has this
responsibility. In Sindh, an active Wildlife Conservation Board (SWCB) exists and has undertaken several
special conservation projects with the collaboration of IUCN and WWF. The SWCB pursues vigorous and
encouraging attitudes to wildlife conservation and ensures political awareness to conservation issues. After
Punjab, Sindh also has the highest budget for wildlife management (Rs.29 million in FY 1998), followed by
NWFP (Rs.21 million).
The principal policy stance on biodiversity conservation is presented in the National Conservation
Strategy (NCS) of 1992. The NCS called for a national policy on wildlife managemenim, strengthening of
the PA system and improving the legal and policy instruments to promote conservation of biodiversity.
Within the policy arena, GoP has approved the Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), with GEF support. The
BAP recommends the expansion of the information base on biodiversity, strengthening in situ conservation
through PAs and other means, promotion of sustainable use of biodiversity resources, creation of incentive
measures for conserving biodiversity, improving research and training, monitoring impacts of policies and
projects on biodiversity and developing long-term financial mechanisms for conserving Dbiodiversity.
Similarly, the updated Forestry and Wildlife Policy of 1991 emphasizes the need to reduce deforestation,
conserve forests and biological diversity, promote social forestry and contain environmental degradation in
watersheds and catchment areas. The broad policy framework is, therefore, a key indication of GoP's
recognition of the importance of biodiversity conservation.
The policy framework is supported by legislation on biodiversity conservation that has been enacted
mainly at the provincial level. Provincial legislation includes: Sindh Wildlife Protection Ordinance (1972),
Punjab Wildlife Act (1974), Balochistan Wildlife Protection Act (1974), NWFP Wildli:Fe Act (1975),
Northern Areas Wildlife Protection Act (1975), Azad Jammu and Kashmir Wildlife Preservation Act
(1975), and Islamabad Wildlife Ordinance (1979). However, Pakistan's major initiative in preserving
biodiversity rests in a system of Protected Areas. Categorized as national parks (10), wildlife sanctuaries
(82), game reserves (83) and private unclassified reserves (14). The provincial governnents collectively
had planned to spend approximately Rs.170 million in FY1998 on managing PAs. At this level of
expenditure the lack of enforcement capacity and enabling management biodiversity coiiservation remains a
critical concern. The recent economic deterioration of the country has only placed further pressure on the
Government to reduce budgets for the protected areas system.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the following sectoral issues:
Loss of Habitats and Species: The principal focus of project activities will be to conserve habitats
supportive of key ecosystems and arrest the decline in the number and populations of species within the
PAs. Two components address this objective: (i) habitat improvement measures to protect and support
threatened and vulnerable species and habitats and (ii) regulation of the level of human use to ensure that
this does not damage habitats and species contained in PAs. To achieve this objective, the project will
undertake management planning in order to ascertain the key factors effecting globally threatened habitats
and species and define the protective measures required to reverse current negative tren,is and better ensure
their protection.
-5 -



Because PAs are connected to their socioeconomic surroundings and are affected negatively and positively
by human use, the project will develop interventions to reduce harmful human use and maximize the
economic benefits derived from responsible use of the PA. These economic benefits will provide incentives
to local communities to protect ecosystems and species within PAs. The project will implement this by
raising public awareness, involving communities in management planning to chalk out the level of human
use in PAs, building community support and institutions for conservation initiatives, formalizing legal
agreements between the government and local communities to establish and clarify resource rights and
levels of use, encouraging tourism and tourism-related enterprises, supporting alternative
income-generating programs for local people to enhance income foregone due to checks on resource use and
developing alternatives to meet community needs such as community woodlots and stall feeding of
livestock.
The success of integrating community development with habitat and species protection measures is strongly
based on community involvement. The project will, therefore, encourage local communities to act as equal
partners with governmental agencies in planning, implementing and monitoring habitat improvement
initiatives. In addition, the project will address habitat and species loss through improved surveillance and
enforcement of conservation measures and conduct research to ascertain the impact of activities on
threatened and vulnerable species and habitats.
Weakness of Implementing Agencies: A key impact of the project will be to improve the implementation
capacity of agencies, since this is a major cause of biodiversity loss due to unchecked and excessive use of
PAs. To address this issue, the project will (i) develop contractual obligations between implementing
agencies to delineate clearly their implementation responsibilities, (ii) review and coordinate plans with
Local Advisory Committees (LACs) that have been involved in project preparation and will serve to
coordinate the efforts of NGOs, local government and line ministries and (iii) include financing for training
and skills upgrading. Enlisting the support of local communities will also reduce conflicts between PA staff
and local people.
Information and Awareness. The project will support the conduct of research studies and baseline
inventories to compile information on biodiversity in the three sites. Regular monitoring and evaluation of
impacts will also enable the project to gain valuable information on the effect of conservation initiatives on
species and populations of great concern. Education and awareness campaigns under the project will target
tourists to promote sustainable use of PAs, school children through field visits and the wider society
through innovative means of communication and dissemination
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
indicadive           Bank     % of     GEF     % of
component              Sector       Costs     % Of   financing   Banki flnandng   GEF
(USsm)    Total   ..UIS$1.1)  nancing  (US$11) financing
1. Protected Area Biodiversity  Natural Resources         0.0    0.00      0.0              0.0
Management               Management
1. I Participation of Custodial               4.36       40.6    0.00      0.0    4.23    42.0
Communities in Park
Management & Conservation
1.2 Improvement of Park                       1.59       14.8    0.00      0.0    1.40    13.9
Infrastructure
-6 -



1.3 Improvement of Park                       1.06       9.9    0.00       0.0    0.83     8.2
Operations
1.4 Research, Habitat                         0.29       2.7    0.00       0.0    0.26     2.6
Improvement & Wildlife
Enrichment
1.5 Public Environmental                      0.40       3.7    0.00       0.0    0.36      3.6
Awareness
2. Sustainability of Park                     2.16       20.1    0.00      0.0    2.15    21.3
Management
3. Human Resource                             0.40        3.7    0.00      0.0    0.38      3.8
Development
4. Project Coordination and                   0.49        4.6    0.00      0.0    0.47      4.7
Monitoring                                                                _
Total Project Costs                  10.75      100.0   0.00       0.0   10.08   100.0
Total Financing Required                  10.75      100.0   0.00       0.0   10.08   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
One of the key policy reforms sought by the project is assurance from the provincial govrernuents and
GoAJK that no activities that may damage biodiversity or hinder the successful implementation of the
project or reduce its benefits would be undertaken in the three National Parks. The provincial governments
and GoAJK have reiterated their support for this policy reform. For description of steps taken by provincial
governments and GoAJK to cease harmful activities or abandon plans that may be han.ful for biodiversity
conservation in the project sites, please se Section D4: Indication of Beneficiary Commitmnent and
Ownership. To enable local communities to be equal partners in implementation agreements, the project has
sought assurance from itnplementing agencies that the legal and institutional framework must be amended
where required for community involvement along the lines identified in the project The implementing
agencies have provided written assurance of their willingness to review the institutional and legal
framework where necessary for this purpose. Institutional reforms undertaken by the prc'Ject include a
reorganization of the current procurement and financial management arrangements pursued by the
provincial governments and GoAJK. The implementing agencies have agreed to reform the current
arrangements for procurement to ensure that they are consistent with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. The project has also sought to reform the financial management arrangements, including
disbursement of funds, in the three implementing agencies to ensure that project funds Exe disbursed,
accounted and managed efficiently. For procurement and disbursement arrangements, see Section E4 on
Institutional assessment, and Annex 6.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will have significant benefits for the global community. Conservation and enrichment of
globally important biodiversity will secure the existence of endangered, threatened, endemic and rare
species. The option and use value of biodiversity thus saved is invaluable, despite being difficult to
quantify. Other benefits to the world will include enhanced knowledge on biodiversity through research,
inventories and monitoring of species and ecosystems in PAs. Significant lessons for replication in other
countries and regions can be drawn from monitoring and studying the effect of project activities on
biodiversity conservation.
Several national and local benefits will also be associated with the project. Local benefits will include
improved employment opportunities for communities living in and around PAs. These may be temporary
such as employment in infrastructure improvement activities, or long term, such as employment as park
- 7 -



staff, through reforestation and from ecotourism. Local communities will also benefit from sustainable use
of resources especially in buffer zones and from mechanisms for resource sharing. In addition, local
communities will be empowered in the management of their resources and in making choices that promote
their own economic uplift in conjunction with conservation of their resource base. The project will target
communities that have a high-to-medium dependency on natural resources for their livelihood or everyday
needs. Other benefits will include reduction in soil erosion and watershed protection.
At the national level the project will improve environmental management and secure watershed protection
and sustainable agricultural practices. The project will also provide an opportunity for testing innovative
community management that can be replicated in other PAs and create mechanisms for sharing the burden
of resource management across public and private sectors.
The project's target population will include conumunities living around the PA sites and those interacting
with it on an irregular basis. The total numbers of households judged to be moderately or highly dependent
on Park resources in 1998 were 2,800 in Machiara, 1,900 in Chitral Gol and 750 in Hingol. As key
stakeholders, the participation of local communities in planning, management and monitoring of the project
is of utmost importance to project success. This target group will include livestock farmers, fuelwood
collectors, hunters/poachers, grazers and fishermen. These groups will form the target of resource use
agreements and alternative income development programs to regulate harmful use of the PAs. The majority
of people involved in these activities are poor and degrade the resource base within the PA because they
have limited or no alternative means of livelihood, little or no knowledge of and access to other forms of
resource use that can be compatible with biodiversity conservation and little incentive to conserve
biodiversity. By providing alternative forms of income generation and linking the conservation of
biodiversity to direct income benefits for these communities, the project will, in particular, provide
incentives for their participation. In Chitral Gol NP, the communities who will be the target of project
activities and benefits will directly or indirectly include 1,900 households that have a high-to-medium
dependence on grazing and/or fuelwood collection. In Hingol NP the number of households that display
medium-to-high dependency on fishing, fuelwood collection and grazing is approximately 750, while for
Machiara NP the number of households dependent on timber, fuelwood collection and grazing amounts to
about 2,800.
Additionally, the project includes special mechanisms to ensure that activities take account of the social,
economic and cultural factors of ethnic minorities living around Chitral Gol and Machiara. Another key
target group will be women whose support to project activities will be elicited through encouraging and
ensuring their participation in social surveys and village organizations.
Visitors to PAs, including both local and foreign visitors, will be another target group. In particular, school
children will be the target audience of summer camps, educational and awareness campaigns organized by
the project. Awareness campaigns will also target the public at large. Both intemational and domestic
tourists from other parts of the country will benefit from improved conservation of biodiversity and PA
management. Thus, the unique indigenous culture of the Kalash attracts around 3,000 foreign and 7,000
Pakistani visitors each year.
-8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will follow a decentralized approach to implementation. Each Provincial Implementing Agency
will have a Project Director, who will be based in the provincial capital. The Conservator (Wildlife) based
in Peshawar will be the Project Director for Chitral Gol. In AJK, the Director-General of Tourism,
Wildlife, Archaeology and Fisheries located at Muzaffarabad will assume this role. In fBalochistan, the
Chief Conservator of Forests, located at Quetta will act as the Project Director. Each oi. the Provincial
Implementing Agencies will designate a full-time Park Manager to each of the Protectec. Areas. The Park
Managers will be located at the respective Park Headquarters. Each implementing agency will designate a
small number of full-time staff, including accounts officer, for the project.
In order to facilitate participation of local communities, the project will form Village Conservation
Committees (VCCs) at the village level or for each cluster of hamlets. All households in a village would be
members of the VCC and would be responsible for nominating 3-7 members to serve as officers of the
VCC. Existing community-based organizations (CBOs) will be used wherever feasible in terms of their
functions, composition and representativeness.
A Project Management Team (PMT) will be constituted at each park site to provide tlle technical and
planning inputs for implementing project activities. The PMT will be a tripartite entity consisting of park
staff with the Project Manager as Team Leader, the TA entity, and nominated representatives of the
custodial communities. The Project Management Team will be in a position to continue to function beyond
the project period as a Park Management Team, with the same composition of implementing agency staff
and community representatives, but without the TA staff. The PMT's primary responsibilities will include
(i) information dissemination, social mobilization and formation of village-level institutions, (ii) the design
and conducting of social and resource utilization surveys, (iii) formulation of a managemnent plan for the
PA in conjunction with local communities, (iv) undertaking of field surveys/studies and implementation of
habitat improvement measures in conjunction with local communities, (v) implementation of community
development and income generation activities to mitigate limitations in access to resources in the PAs. (v)
implementation of park infrastructure, (vi) communication, and (vii) monitoring of community and
conservation activities . All management arrangements and community microplan investments at the local
level will be detailed in legal agreements between the VCCs and the PMT. In addition, tlhe PMT will
coordinate with other development projects through the Local Advisory Committee (LAC) or any existing
coordinating arrangement.
Community representation in the PMT will reflect the major stakeholders (e.g. villages and ethnic groups)
whose resource utilization has an influence on the planned conservation in the PA. The community
representatives in the PMT will be nominated by the VCCs, and will help coordinate community
participation and investment strategies at the level of the park and its vicinity, as well as assist in ensuring
that approved microplan investments and community-based park management activities are implemented
according to agreements reached. They would also nominate suitable persons to attend training courses in
order to build local capacity to plan and implement agreed activities.
To assist the PMT with regard to the planning, implementation and monitoring of micrcplans for clusters
of villages around the PAs, a Park & Community Planning Unit (PCPU) will be established comprising
the Park Rangers, TA entity, and nominated community representatives. Whereas the IPMT will operate at
the level of the project, the PCPU will deal with different clusters of VCCs defined in terms of the nature of
their dependency and impacts on the PA, or other characteristics that define them as an entity on a higher
level than the individual VCC. The PCPU will help coordinate community participation and investment
strategies for the involved VCCs, and ensure that approved microplan investments and community-based
-9-



park management activities are implemented according to agreements reached.
Overlapping or conflicting claims to resources by stakeholders are likely to come out in the open during the
participatory resource mapping and planning exercise. If such disputes cannot be solved by the PMT and
the concerned VCCs, the project will pursue arbitration under an arrangement which closely resembles
customary conflict resolution. Each party to the conflict nominates one representative who then agrees on
an independent mediator/arbitrator to facilitate reaching a compromise. The decision mediated by the
arbitrator and agreed to by the two representatives of the conflicting parties will be binding.
Local Advisory Committees (LACs) were formed during project preparation and will continue to function
during implementation. Each LAC will comprise representatives of the PMT, the local communities, local
government, NGOs and related rural support agencies. The LAC's role will be to ensure integration of
project activities in the overall development strategies and activities in the three project areas. LACs will
liaise with other governmental and development agencies active in the area to where possible coordinate
project implementation and access resources from other programs.
Upstream of the PMT, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be constituted at the provincial level for
policy advice and guidance. The PSC will be composed of senior representatives of government agencies
responsible for forestry, environment, agriculture, local government, land, etc., and conservation NGOs and
specialist groups.
At the federal level, coordination in termns of ensuring consistency in approach, dissemination of lessons and
experiences, overall wildlife policy and priorities, etc., will be provided by the Federal Steering
Committee (FSC). Activities that could be undertaken more cost effectively by being organized at the
federal level will be arranged by the Ministry of Environment, Local Govemment and Rural Development
(MELGRD). These will include workshops, seminars on infornation sharing and lessons learnt from all
three sites, specialized training and dissemination and impact monitoring and evaluation of activities.
Private/Public Interaction: To secure the financial sustainability of project activities, a non-profit Park
Association will be established in the second or third year of operation. To be fully operational, the
Endowment Fund will be expected to generate matching funds from in-country sources in order to avail
project funds allocated for this purpose. A volunteer Board of Directors (15-30 members) will be
constituted to administer the Endowment Fund. The Board will develop, in collaboration with its initial
principal donors, an intemationally accepted mission, objectives, laws and operating procedures for the
Park Association. The precise financial and institutional arrangements for the management of the
Endowment Fund will be finalized following technical assistance provided under the project for designing
the Endowment Fund.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The monitoring exercise will be designed to provide for continuous
learning and adjustment of approach, and will involve participatory monitoring based on self-defined
indicators (by community focus groups, VCCs, PMTs), input and output monitoring data from the PMT
and PMU, impact/outcome monitoring by an independent monitoring agency (for midterm review and
ICR), and Bank supervision. A framework for monitoring will be developed before project implementation
begins, which will include description of the institutional arrangements and processes incorporating
participatory monitoring and learning systems, selection of indicators, sampling methods, interval and
intensity of sampling and mechanisms for feedback and project improvement. Three areas of significance
for monitoring the achievement of project objectives will be (i) the ecological aspects of field activities for
biodiversity protection and PA management, (ii) community participation in conservation, mitigation
- 10-



planning and implementation, community compliance with resource use agreements, and tie outcomes of
income generation activities, and (iii) legal and institutional frameworks impacting on prcject activities in
the three sites. Key indicators for monitoring these categories will include:
(i) Ecological aspects: Although the changes in numbers of rare species are difficult to identify within the
life span of the project, the overall monitoring for ecological aspects will determine ii the project has
succeeded in slowing the rate of loss of vulnerable flora and fauna, and attempt to evaluate the
potential increase in population density and range of some threatened species. Specifically, M&E
activities will investigate maintenance of populations of animals, reduction of hunting, reduction of
livestock inside the PAs, extent of successful rehabilitation of habitats and land, success in species
re-introduction and level of in situ breeding. Quantifiable indicators will be used to monitor the success
of the project. Methods of monitoring will include inventories, surveys, transect sampling, site
evidence, and game warden records.
(ii) Community participation and socio-economic aspects will be monitored through indicators regarding
(a) VCC formation, functioning and sustainability (e.g. target population knowledge about the purpose
of VCCs; inclusiveness of VCCs; transparency in decision making and financial management;
mobilization of community contributions; poverty focus and equity in activity plans; maintenance of
assets created).
(b) Community involvement in planning and implementation of PA management plans (e.g. inputs to
resource utilization mapping; participation in decision making by VCCs and community representatives
in PMTs for planning of restrictions in resource use and mitigation measures; willingness of
communities to contribute towards costs of measures to mitigate reductions in resource access).
(c) Compliance with resource use agreements by communities (e.g. number of affect,d households
complying with or violating different types of restriction; role of VCCs community representatives in
PMTs in ensuring compliance; attitudes of community members utilizing resources covered by
restrictions; role of locally employed PA staff).
(d) Income generation outcomes (e.g. changes in the incomes of households affected by restrictions in
resource access; whether benefits from income generation accrue to those affected by the restrictions in
resource access; and whether income generation alternatives are culturally compatible and acceptable
to the affected communities).
(e) Efficacy of conflict resolution and grievance redress arrangements (e.g. type and number of
conflicts resolved or pending; processing time; type of grievance redress process applied).
(iii) Institutional impacts: Monitoring of institutional impacts will evaluate the training cf staff, increase in
surveillance, enforcement of controls on harmful use of the PA and frequency of interagency collaboration.
Other measures to monitor institutional aspects will include the management of the Park Association and
the level of domestic and international contributions collected for it.
- 11 -



Indicators for Project Impact Monitoring
Development Objectives    Sub-Development Objectives   Impact Indicator
(A) Protected Areas being   (1) External disturbances or  (a) Reduction of poaching by 30% by
managed effectively on a  pressures on protected areas  mid-term and 60% by project end.
long-term basis for the   managed effectively           (b) Reduction of unregulated livestock
conservation of                                         grazing and fuelwood collection within
biodiversity                                           the core zones of protected areas by
20% by mid-term and 40% by project
end
(2) Viable participatory     (a) Protected area managed in
management system for        accordance with agreed participatory
protected areas in operation  park management plans
(b) Number of management
interventions being implemented in
protected areas in accordance with
participatory park management plans
(c) Number of Village Conservation
Committees formed and percentage of
target population as members of
Village Conservation Committees
(d) Changes in incomes of households
affected by restriction in resource use
in protected areas
(e) Number of complaints lodged, cases
resolved, cases pending and grievance
resolution meetings held to resolve
conflicts.
(3) Sustainable financial    (a) Endowment Fund established for
system in place and functioning  supporting management of protected
for management of protected  areas
areas                        (b) Extent of financing for Endowment
Fund being generated through external
public and private sources for
management of protected areas
(c) Extent of non-project funding
accrued to Village Conservation Funds
in each protected area
- 12 -



(B) Enhanced capacity and   (1) Improved skills available    (a) Increase in number of persons with
knowledge on biodiversity   for management of protected  enhanced skills and competence in
and protected areas      areas                         protected area management.
(b) Increase in number of research
projects/studies addressing critical
management issues
(c) Increase in number of issues for
which management re-sponses have
been identified and being implemented
in the protected areas
(2) Improved awareness and   (a) Increase in number of schools,
knowledge of biodiversity and    students and community members
protected areas              exposed to project-related educational
materials and programs
(b) Increase in number of management
issues solved with political and public
support
(c) Increase in visitation to protected
areas
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Without project scenario:
Current conditions leading to continued loss of species and reduction in populations of threatened and
endangered species are most likely to continue in a without project scenario. GoP lacks ihe resources to
invest in biodiversity conservation, and without support from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the
global benefits from conserving rare and endemic species would not be realized. Staff skills would remain
weak, leading to poor enforcement and management capacity and mechanisms for participatory planning
would not be established. Habitat degradation, fragmentation and loss of key species and their populations
would continue. Several globally important and endemic species will be severely reduced in number and
may become extinct. The proposed project, as an altemative to this scenario, will ensure the conservation
of threatened and globally important species.
b. Choice of Sites and Approach:
In early stages of preparation, the project underwent a ranking exercise to select the number of sites and
their suitability for the project. Site selection was based on the ranking of areas according to the presence of
globally important species; urgency of threat to ecosystems, habitats and species; likelihood of social
participation; and viability of sustainable park incomes through tourism. Where alternative sites for the
project were identified, these were evaluated to determine if there were other conservation initiatives
planned by donors. In general, the project has selected sites that satisfy its selection critnria but are not the
focus of other similar efforts.
- 13 -



Similarly, the project chose to conserve biodiversity by focusing on PAs. In order to implement targeted
initiatives for protecting habitats and species in areas that they are globally important, vulnerable and
threatened, the project chose a PA approach instead of a community-based approach. A community-level
approach to biodiversity conservation is, at present, being piloted by the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) in Chitral Valley, and it is too early to draw lessons on its replicability. Further, the
PA-based approach of this project complements the approach of the UNDP-supported pilot project in
Chitral Valley.
c. Decentralized implementation arrangements:
The project rejected a centralized approach to implementation, favored under the current PA management
system, in order to follow a more effective and responsive management system that is closer to communities
whose participation will be a critical factor in project success. Accordingly, the Park Management
Committee will be based at or close to the site. Each PA will have separate arrangements for procurement
of Technical Assistance based on the particular needs of each PA site and will have a team of specialists
supporting project activities. In contrast to centralized project management, this approach was deemed
necessary in light of the varying ecological and socioeconomic considerations of each PA and to ensure that
project management integrates closely with the needs of local communities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I .   yi   0                       Latest Supervision
Sector Issue            I          Project           lBan(PSR)Ratings
C______________________________      _______A__      _C_    _:_   (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Natural Resource Conservation and    Environment Protection and         S             S
Environmental Protection            Resource Conservation Project.
(IDA credit closed June 30,
1999).
(The project had undertaken
strengthening of federal and
provincial environmental
agencies through training,
support to the development of
legislation, environmental
awareness, policy studies and
pilot works on riverine
afforestation along the Chenab
and Ravi rivers, wildlife
planning in the Punjab and
Alpine pasture studies.)
- 14 -



Natural Resources Management     Balochistan Natural Resources    U             U
Management Project. (IDA
credit closed June 30, 2000).
(Strengthening Balochistan
Environmental Protection
Agency and Balochistan Forest
Department through additional
staff, training and skills
upgrading, public awareness,
policy development. Small
rehabilitation subprojects on
sand dune stabilization, Chiltan
National Park, rangeland
rehabilitation and juniper forest
conservation.)
Forestry                         Punjab Forest Sector             S             S
Development Project. (ongoing)
(Institutional development of
the Punjab Forestry
Department, expansion of farm
forestry, promotion of irrigated
timber plantations and
improvement of range and
scrub forest in Pothwar through
participatory planning and
management.)
Trust Fund                       Bhutan Trust Fund for            S             S
Environmental Conservation
(completed.)
(Establishment of Trust Fund
for providing a long-term
funding mechanism for
biodiversity conservation.)
Other development agencies
- 15-



UNDP/IUCN/GEF                     Managing Biodiversity in
Pakistan with Rural
Community Development.
Mountain Areas Conservancy
Project (ongoing)
(Pilot project in Northern Areas
to assess the effectiveness of
rural village management of
wild species and habitats to
conserve biodiversity in
Pakistan, build capacity in
governmental agencies and
review policy and legal
requirements)
Birdlife International and World  Palas Conservation and
Pheasant Association-Pakistan     Development Project (ongoing.)
(Conservation of Himalayan
forest and management and
sustainable use of natural
resources through participatory
management. Improvement of
basic infrastructure, health,
nutrition and sanitation.)
WWF-Pakistan                      Small-scale community-based
conservation efforts in Bar
Valley and Khunjerab National
Park and Chitral Valley.
(ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
* Establishing clear linkages between economic benefits and resource conservation (India:
Ecodevelopment Project and Palas Conservation Project): Long-term sustained economic benefits from
conservation such as through tourism and employment in PA management are essential to ensure the
sustainability of project interventions. The Ecodevelopment Project in India has also highlighted that
support for alternative livelihoods and provision of alternative means to meet benefits derived from PAs
must be contingent on cost sharing by local communities. This lesson is incorporated in the proposed
project by establishing reciprocal agreements with communities regarding continued limited resource
use, and community contributions to mitigation measures to offset loss of resource access in PAs.
* Building understanding and consensus among stakeholders (Palas Conservation Project and Punjab
Forestry Sector Project): A key lesson from the other projects in the sector is the need to build
consensus among stakeholders on project objectives, activities and roles. In the proposed project,
mechanisms for consensus building created at the preparation stage (such as LACs) will be continued
- 16 -



during the implementation phase. For consensus building on resource use at the sites, PMCs will
function as dispute-resolving and benefit-sharing entities.
*   Providing start up funding, appropriate asset management arrangements and assessing the legal
framework for the establishment of a Trust Fund (Bhutan Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation
Project): The Bhutan Trust Fund Project has highlighted the value of having reliable funding available
during the initial stages of a trust fund establishment, so that it does not depend on inivestment income.
The project will apply this lesson through investing US$2 million for initial seed money for the Park
Association. In addition, the project will support a study during the second year of ils operation to
advise on optimal asset management arrangements and assessment of the existing legal framework to
institutionalize collaboration between donors and recipients, make decision making 2nd implementation
transparent and make management accountable.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
By taking key steps in support of the project and by their active involvement in project preparation, the
provincial governments and GoAJK have demonstrated their commitment to the project. The implementing
agencies, by being part of the Biodiversity Working Group (an advisory committee formned to guide project
preparation) were closely involved in providing oversight to project preparation. Additionally, they have
agreed to implement key policy and institutional changes that clearly demonstrate their support for the
project. These include the GoAJK's decision to cease logging operations in Machiara National Park after
the completion of existing logging contracts and Balochistan's support to abandon plans to construct a dam
in Hingol National Park. The provincial govemments and GoAJK have also agreed to extend the
boundaries of the National Parks if necessitated by ecological considerations. A recent clemonstration of
this support has been the extension of Hingol National Park, which has resulted in the defacto formation of
Pakistan's first marine sanctuary. GoAJK has also agreed to extend Machiara National Park to include
23,610 acres from the Jagran Range in Neelum Valley, which is ecologically similar to the Park and in
need of protection. In addition, the provincial governments and AJK have reiterated their support for the
participatory approach to be followed under the project and have agreed to amend any existing legislation
for this purpose.
However, as is the case in several other countries, the implementing agencies concemed with
biodiversity/wildlife conservation in Pakistan are weak and under-funded. This is due, in part, to lack of
training and capacity but also to budgetary constraints. The project will make a modest but effective
contribution to raising the profile of biodiversity conservation in Pakistan through awareness building,
involving civil society in PA management through the appointment of well-reputed people as Directors of
the Park Association and efficient management of PAs with community support. The project will also
demonstrate the economic potential of such ventures by providing an example of public-private cooperation
through the Park Association to convince policymakers that conservation activities can be supported
through innovative means of financing to supplement public funds.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
GEF's support is vital for enabling the project to conserve globally important species in the three Protected
Areas. Without its support, the population of several globally important species in each PA will dwindle as
a result of existing conditions and as their habitat is degraded or destroyed. In addition. GEF's support to
these PAs adds value to biodiversity conservation at a regional level. Since the selected PAs offer a
wintering ground for several endangered species of migratory birds, improved protection of their habitat
will increase the chances of survival for these bird species. With other conservation efforts planned in the
sector, GEF's support will have a "leveraging impact" on other initiatives such as the proposed
- 17-



UNDP-supported wetlands conservation project and implementation of the pilot project on Maintaining
Biodiversity in Pakistan (in Northern Areas). The project provides an opportunity to test a replicable model
of PA management that will conserve threatened and vulnerable biodiversity and promote the sustainable
management of natural resources.
Under the baseline scenario, the provincial governments would continue to provide the current or even a
reduced level of funding for the traditionally weak PA management system, except possibly in the case of
NWFP. Human encroachment and degradation of core areas would continue, quite likely leading to the loss
of key "charismatic" species such as the snow leopard and the Kashmir Markhor (a species with a narrow
distribution) or the more widely distributed western Tragopan pheasant. The extent of degradation would
vary but is likely to be pervasive in all PAs. With GEF funding, GoP would be able to supplement its
ongoing efforts and develop efficiently managed PAs in which local communities are a leading management
force along with NGOs. In addition, the PAs could serve as a model for replicability for other PAs in
Pakistan.
The project benefits from the Bank's experience of involvement in forest and agricultural policy
development in Pakistan and fills an important niche in the existing program of activities, particularly in the
natural resources sector, currently being pursued by the Bank under the direction of the CAS. The Bank
Group has already supported projects in various sectors with components to improve the environment or to
rehabilitate and develop natural resources. In the agriculture sector, World Bank projects have focused on
correcting waterlogging and salinity. For example, these include SCARP VI, SCARP Mardan, Drainage
IV, Leftbank Outfall Drain, Private Tubewells Development, and Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Irrigation and
Drainage Projects. Arising from inadequate irrigation drainage, reversing deforestation and de-pasturing
Punjab Forestry Sector Project and securing watersheds and rangelands protection Hill Farming and
Technical Development Project, Integrated Hill Farming Development Project, Environmental Protection
and Resource Conservation Project, Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project and Punjab Forest
Sector Development Project. At the federal and provincial levels, the Bank has supported institutional
development and capacity building through the Environment Protection and Resource Conservation Project,
and the Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project. The proposed project consolidates the Bank's
efforts in the sector by conserving biodiversity within PAs.
The Bank Group's other projects in the energy, private sector development, health, education and social
sectors comprise the range of its activities in Pakistan. In particular, the Social Action Program Project
allows the integration of human resource development and community participation. This will be a key
source of support for alternative income generation activities in the proposed project. The proposed project,
therefore, consolidates and enhances existing Bank's efforts in Pakistan and in the sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
As a stand-alone GEF project, the principal economic evaluation criteria to be considered was the"
incremental cost" justification in relation to the project's potential contribution to global biodiversity
conservation (appearing in Annex 4). The implementation of proposed activities relies heavily on local
community participation to realize lower costs for operations over time than would otherwise have been
necessary for a comparable level of surveillance and protection of the sites. The Government, moreover,
- 18 -



would not have the resources to achieve the degree of protection that should be feasible undLer the
community-based approach. If the project were not implemented, the Government would not have more
resources than are presently available for biodiversity conservation in the selected areas. Thle design of the
project has also constrained the scale of the proposed interventions to imply incremental recurrent costs that
eventually could be accommodated under the operation of a small local trust fund, the proposed
not-for-profit Park Association, without further demands on Government resources. The expenditures on
the proposed development of infrastructure and the provision of equipment and other physical assets for the
selected areas are expected overall to be comparable to, and in many instances more modest than, similar
undertakings for the establishment of protected areas elsewhere in South Asia.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The NPV and FRR are undefined. The primary concern regarding the expected financial performance of
the proposed project is the sustainability of incremental recurrent costs in the projected areas, which in total
are estimated in today's values at less than $200,000 per annum. The issue of financial sustainability is
addressed through the project's strategy to establish a Park Association that would build on a small
endowment, actively engaging in local fund-raising and linking into international donor networks that assist
ongoing commitments.
Fiscal Impact:
The community-based management strategy of the national parks will develop incentives for surrounding
villages to maintain the environmental integrity of the parks. This approach will help impart an overall
beneficial fiscal impact to the Project, and is expected to minimize Government recurrent expenditures. The
main recurrent costs are for the O&M of additional park infrastructure, such as trails, roads, park amenity
structures and information centers, and for some incremental departmental staff, particularly for the Hingol
National Park, which is at present not staffed. Wherever possible, the project will reduce personnel costs
attributed to surveillance and patrolling through the recruitment of honorary wildlife wardens from local
communities. Communities would also be involved in biodiversity monitoring. Specific site investments in
such improvements will be selected so as to ensure that total associated recurrent costs are commensurate
with prudently expected incremental revenues from activities linked to the parks. At present, recurrent cost
obligations are estimated to range between 3-5% of the total investment costs in habitat imnprovements and
wildlife enrichment and protection. In the case of Chitral Gol, incremental revenues will partly arise
directly from access fees for visitors on foot or by vehicle. In general, the project will promote ecological
and wildemess tourism in the parks as a means of generating strong local incentives to preserve the
environmental integrity of the parks. The economic activity derived from tourism, especially to the extent
that foreign visitors can be attracted, will provide a potential tax base for the Government that is sufficient
to justify some incremental budgetary allocation to the concerned departments. Any transfers from this
income to custodian communities for development investments will be carried out through the park
association trust described below:
Financial sustainability will be supported through the formation of a Park Association. The Endowment
Fund will administer the proceeds of an endowment to support the sustainability of conservation efforts, in
the first instance, within the Project's three protected areas. The initial size of the endowment shall be
US$2 million from the project with matching contributions from in-country sources being solicited after
start-up. Proceeds from the endowment shall help finance park operations, including the incremental
operating and maintenance costs of surveillance and protection introduced by the project in the protected
areas. Incremental operating costs include stipends for game watchers recruited from local communities.
Interest from the endowment could also be used by the Park Association to finance the purchase of
- 19-



equipment and other goods used for the park operations. Such items would be procured by the Park
Association and lent to the parks for the use of field staff. Under the project this working relationship with
provincial wildlife departments will be established in the first two to three years of the implementation with
the purchase of some replacement equipment by the Park Association. Similarly, the equipment procured
for the park management Technical Assistance (TA) teams, including all vehicles, will be the property of
the Park Association, which will be authorized, upon the completion of the teams' contracts, to loan the
equipment for periods of continued use by field staff. Additionally, funds would be dispensed for
park-specific activities that meet designated guidelines, such as community-based micro-enterprise and
resource management agreements, action-oriented research, and habitat improvement activities. The
recurrent costs of the Park Association and the operation of field schools will not become part of the
government's non-development budget, but will be financed through the Endowment Fund's own private
fund-raising efforts. In some instances, communities will be required to assume the maintenance costs of
minor structures, such as livestock stockades that reduce threats of predating. These costs will be small
and within the ability of local communities to support through economic activities that will develop about
the parks.
3. Technical:
The project recognizes that endangered and threatened species must be managed at the meta-population
level (sub-population groups) in a manner that offers a maximum likelihood of preserving genetically intact
numbers of animals over the long term (i.e. 50 to 100 years or more). Virtually all PAs are far too small to
protect a sufficiently large population. For this reason, the project advocates an ecosystem approach that
will combine two linked approaches: (i) networking of populations in adjacent reserves by linking
management of separate PAs at the regional level; and (ii) securing of habitat within the intervening
corridor and the buffer zones adjacent to individual reserves in an effort to augment the PA's relatively
small population of species. The limitations of each provincial wildlife department in temis of its habitat
and species protection programs is widely recognized and this deficiency will be primarily addressed
through community involvement in conservation activities and the linking of wildlife to project-supported
enterprises such as ecotourism. In addition, local people will be vested with full responsibility for utilizing
resources within the PAs on a sustainable basis through a series of sound economical enterprises including
ecotourism, indigenous fishing and rotational rangeland grazing. Restrictions on resource use within a PA
will be defined in consultation with the concemed communities, and altemative sources of income will be
developed for meeting the needs of those affected.
The need for reliable baseline information on the target animal populations is clear and the capacity of each
wildlife agency to conduct defensible surveys and censuses in concert with locally deputized wildlife
wardens will be strengthened by the project. The project will conduct scientific data collection to maintain
information on species found in each PA. Adequate attention will be paid to ensure that scientific data
collection does not have any adverse impacts on threatened or rare species. Although improving patrols to
prevent internal and external poachers is the principal need of each PA, long-term management requires a
sound understanding of species-specific natural histories, the local ecological processes and inherent or
modified constraints to habitat-carrying capacity. Over the long term, research will be sustained by a
special Endowment Fund whose skilled staff will forge ties with national and international research
institutions, especially universities interested in exchange programs as potential collaborators.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 20 -



The executing agencies consist of the Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Ruial Development
for coordination at the federal level. At the provincial level, the executing agencies will be Tourism,
Archaeology, Wildlife and Fisheries Department in AJK, Wildlife Department of NWFP aric Wildlife
Division of the Forest Department of Balochistan. At present, many provincial conservation policies bear
more resemblance to the modus operands of the parent agency, namely the Forestry Department, rather
than reflecting the special needs of wildlife and community-based resource utilization. Residual,
overlapping jurisdiction is a commnon problem within Pakistan, especially between wildlife management
agencies and the departments of forestry. This creates weak links in PA administration, wh:1ch will be
addressed by this project. As indicated by staffing allocations, the capacity of the three PA. agencies varies
greatly, with NWFP being the most developed and Balochistan the least developed. Among the more
important constraints common to all provincial and territorial wildlife management authorid:ies are:
*   Insufficient annual operational and development funds to meet the tasks at hand. The traditional
conservation model of a centralized, "top-down" government PA authority is costly to administer,
requiring significant investments for building infrastructure, equipment inventories, park managers,
guards and other administrative staff. This fact is reflected by the relatively low m-an annual
expenditure per hectare of PAs during 1994 to 1997, which amounted to US$2.19 million for AJK
(with 9 PAs), US$2.78 million for NWFP (with 52 PAs) and only US$0.12 millio:a for the 31
Protected Areas in Balochistan. Over the long term, the project will decentralize management
control and provide local communities with a greater share of resource management responsibilities
in exchange for assistance in improving local livelihoods. It will also assure increased
sustainability and enhanced biodiversity conservation, especially within the particular Protected
Area. Decentralizing government responsibilities to more local levels is a stated priority of the
GoP, which requires a sound policy and legal framework, as well as a commitment to guarantee
local communities a voice and responsibility for sustainable resource management.
*   Buffer zone and community-based management and participation in national parksi is presently
limited by the narrowly focused wildlife Conservation Acts and Ordinances of the provincial and
territorial governments. These were enacted in 1974 (Balochistan) or 1975 (NWF? and AJK),
following similar language and directives that primarily aimed to control human encroachment, and
especially activities like the hunting of wildlife. Little or no provision was made fcr encouraging
community involvement in protecting or managing natural resources or the rare spiecies that are
found in or near all Protected Areas. Presently, very few local communities are involved in
resource planning, management or enforcement.
4.2 Project management:
The project will assist the provincial and territorial governments to develop collaborative procedures and
structures for managing the three candidate national parks. These will include mechanisms :for delineating
critical resources and their boundaries, allowable uses and management regimes for sustai:aable utilization
and biodiversity conservation, clarification of stakeholder rights, functions and responsibilities, conflict
resolution, and procedures for enforcing decisions and monitoring compliance. Buffer zone communities
will be engaged in the development of a management plan from its inception to its implementation and
evaluation.
*   Trained largely as traditional foresters or wildlife biologists, most wildlife departnent staff lack the
necessary skills for constructively engaging local communities and conducting the necessary
socioeconomic assessments required for effectively integrating and reconciling the dual goals of
conservation and development using holistic management plans to guide the parks operations and
- 21 -



to achieve its biodiversity objectives. Thus, professional training is a key component of the
proposed project.
0   In most cases, PA management follows a centralized government model, with decisions emanating
downward from the provincial headquarters to the field. Park managers frequently lack flexibility,
in large part due to the absence of management plans to guide decision making and action. The
project will offer strong hands-on management planning training for park managers and seek to
institutionalize management planning, implementation and monitoring. Project managers will be
stationed in the field, in or very close to the park in question. The project will also have a strong
element of support for community participation and institutions through TA provided at crucial
times such as during the early stages of the project. This will help to ensure that a collaborative
management and decision-making structure is in place from the outset.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement capacity: Current procurement capacity of the provincial governments and AJK needs to be
strengthened to ensure that they are able to make procurement decisions effectively. Accordingly, provincial
governments will assign staff for training on a basic procurement training course conducted by the Bank.
This training will be complete before project activities commence. The implementing agencies will also
prepare detailed plans for procurement. Procurement under the project will take place at the provincial level
and the three implementing agencies will independently procure goods, equipment and works and select the
TA entity for implementing the project according to quality and cost-based selection. Goods and works
will where feasible be procured through local communities organized into VCCs. Procurement
arrangements currently in place in the three implementing agencies will need to be adapted for this
arrangement and made acceptable to the Bank. For details of procurement arrangements, please see Annex
6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management capability: An assessment of financial procedures followed by the implementing
agencies reveals several discrepancies in financial management. These issues and the measures that the
project will take to address them are:
*   The financial management system lacks segregation of responsibilities. The custodians of cash
(Divisional Forest Officer (DFO)/Drawing and Disbursement Officer(DDO) are responsible for
approving, processing, recording and custody of cash. The same situation characterizes auditing
arrangements. In AJK, an intemal audit is arranged so that DFO/DDO Wildlife checks accounts of
DFO Fisheries and vice versa. The project will ensure that cash payments are discouraged and that
all cheques are signed jointly by more than one officer. Where cash payments are made, these
would be supported with vouchers and payments verified by the DFO/DDO. Appropriate
segregation of duties and responsibilities within the provincial and AJK project financial
management systems shall be defined and elaborated in a financial management plan, which shall
be part of an action plan to be agreed upon during negotiations. Each implementing agency will
appoint Accounts Officer (AO) in the core staff appointed for project management.
*   Auditing is done on an infrequent basis and audits are undertaken for more than one year at the
same time. In NWFP, funds from aid agencies are also not subject to audits. To redress this
situation, regular internal audits will be conducted on a yearly basis, and these will be
supplemented by yearly external audits performed by the Auditor General's office within 6 months
following the end of each fiscal year. The reports of these external audits will be presented to the
Bank within 6 months following the end of each fiscal year.
- 22 -



*   Project Monitoring Reporting (PMR) requirements are also not adequate. Sample formats
acceptable to the Bank have been provided to the implementing agencies, to enable agencies to
present full details of expenditure by each category.
Initially, the project will not be eligible for disbursement using PMRs; however, following the first year of
project implementation a re-assessment of the project's financial reporting can be undertaken to determine
eligibility for PMR-based disbursements under FMI guidelines.
Disbursement: The project funds would be disbursed over five years, with the project closing at or near the
end of June 2006. For expenditure eligible for GEF funding, the Bank will disburse GEF funds at the
following rates for these items: (a) civil works and field works (90% of expenditure); (b) vehicles and
equipment [100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of local expenditure (ex-factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditure for other items procured locally]; (c) consultant services and studies (100% of expenditures);
(d) Parks Association endowment and start-up costs (100% of expenditure); (e) training (95% of
expenditure); and (f) specified project operating costs (95% of expenditure). The Bank will provide
retroactive financing for eligible expenditures up to $20,000 to the federal Ministry of Environmnent, Local
Government and Rural Development, and up to $100,000 to each province, for equipment, and consulting
services and training on account of payments made for expenditures before the Grant Agreemnent signing
date but after July 1, 2000.
Funds will flow to the project sites through "Special Accounts" to be opened by each implementing agency.
Under the Project, four US Dollar Special Accounts will be established, Fund A, Fund B, Fund C, and
Fund D, one per project implementing agency. Fund A will concern expenditures incurred by the Ministry
of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development at the federal level. Fund B uill concern
expenditures incurred by Balochistan components, Fund C NWFP components, and Fund ED the AJK
components. The Bank has allocated US$40,000 as the initial deposit into Special Account A, and
US$200,000 for each of the other Special Accounts, Fund B, Fund C and Fund D (Annex 6). The amount
in each account will be sufficient to meet four months of estimated project expenditures. Thle "Special
Account" will be operated and maintained in accordance with the procedures already accepted by the
Government of Pakistan through the Ministry of Finance. The payments will be made against actual
liabilities (GEF share of project financing), and no advances will be made for the estimated expenditures.
The respective Governments will ensure timely provision of counterpart funds for paymen; of taxes and
their share of project financing. Staff salaries will also be paid by the respective Governments.
Assurances were sought at negotiations that funds would be channeled to Village Conservation Committees
(VCC) for carrying out the project activities. At the village level, funds will be disbursed to the Village
Conservation Funds (VCFs) opened in local banks by VCCs. All village investrnents, whether from the
project or other sources as feasible, will flow through the VCF. The terms and conditions :For disbursement
will be agreed upon in a collaborative framework between the communities and the Project Management
Unit and formalized in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). A MOU format will be developed (as per
sample used in UNDP's pilot project, and to be signed by participating communities at the village or village
cluster level, with the PA management authority, designated VCC and facilitating NGO as signatories) and
cleared by the Bank. Initial funds will be advanced to the VCF by the government after: (i0 VCCs have
been constituted, (ii) the VCF established, (iii) microplanning workshops completed, (iv) resource
intervention and income generation opportunities have been identified, (v) commitments oln cost sharing in
cash or labor by beneficiaries made, (vi) annual work plans finalized, and (vii) conservation agreements
agreed between the communities and PMTs. The first advance of funds is expected to take place during the
second half of FY2002 for Machiara, Chitral Gol and Hingol respectively. Funds will be ieleased on a
quarterly basis to VCCs based on annual work plans agreed with PMTs. Installments would be released
based on project progress reports, evidence that previously released funds have been spent in accordance
- 23 -



with the agreed upon work plans and the outstanding budget has been adjusted. The monitoring process will
allow the project to adjust disbursements based on amendments to annual work plans. The Bank has agreed
to provide retroactive financing for eligible expenses detailed in Annex 6, II-E.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with the World Bank's OP/BP4.01 on environmental assessment, the project is classified
as Category B, because it is anticipated that there will be no irreversible adverse impacts on the
environment. On the contrary, the project is expected to contribute to improving environmental benefits
by supporting the management of existing pressures on biological resources in three PAs. A more
detailed discussion of environmental issue is found in Annex 2b.
Project activities are expected to produce wide-scale beneficial impacts, by protecting habitats,
population of threatened and vulnerable species and promoting the sustainable use of resources within
the PAs and their buffer zones. The altemative income-generating activities planned under the project
will be designed to ensure that they benefit biodiversity conservation. These activities are aimed at
reducing or managing existing pressures that threaten biodiversity in the three PAs, and might include
handicrafts, sericulture, apiculture, bee-keeping, value added of medicinal and non-timber forest
products, etc. Other project activities, such as awareness raising, training and capacity building, will
also have beneficial environmental impacts by raising public support for biodiversity conservation and
improving the skills for PA management.
Adverse environmental impacts of project activities are expected to be minimal or negligible. No major
infrastructure development or construction activities will be undertaken by the project. Small-scale
improvements to trails, camp sites and water and wastewater disposal envisaged under the project will
be planned carefully to avoid soil disturbance. Improvement activities will be undertaken in the dry
season to avoid any possibility of soil erosion. Income-generation activities which are expected to be
small, labor intensive, based on local materials and low technology would meet the eligibility criteria
that ensures protection of the environment. Further, information gaps in terms of existing baseline
conditions will be addressed through a focused, cost-effective applied research program that also seeks
to demonstrate new approaches to resource protection and sustainable harvesting of forest products.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities and impacts will provide continuos feedback to the
project and allow for adjustments to ensure a positive impact on biodiversity.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project design provides for the development of guidelines and procedures to identify the scope and
nature of project investments on a village by village basis in accordance with local environmental
conditions and social needs. Specific eligibility criteria and procedures (to be finalized at an early stage
of project implementation as a dated covenant to the Project Legal Agreement) will guide the selection of
appropriate investments. Project staff at the protected area-level, participating NGOs, technical
specialists and community groups will evaluate environmental and social soundness of potential project
investments. Only activities that are environmentally sound would be eligible for financing under the
project. Project performance review and impact monitoring would ensure compliance with
environmental and social standards. Project review and monitoring (the latter to be undertaken by an
independent institution) will provide adequate feedback to enable management to make changes in
project activities so that objectives of conservation of biodiversity and improvement of livelihoods are
met.
- 24 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations on the project concept, objectives and design were undertaken with representatives of all
community groups as an integral part of project preparation. Additional consultations were held with
representatives of provincial and local level government agencies and NGOs and related professionals on
identification of local dependencies on PA resources, identification of natural resource use patterns,
mitigation measures and potential risks associated with likely investments. Public consultation was
undertaken through stakeholder consultation meetings, informal discussion protected area 'ievel public
meetings, etc. The key concerns stem from implementation of altemate measures for managing current
unsustainable dependencies on protected area resources, and in particular the impacts of ecotourism,
increased visitation and resource flows. These concerns will be addressed through the careful selection of
PA investments, close scrutiny of its implementation and monitoring.
Local feedback was used during project preparation as inputs to design process for identifying and
mitigating any potential adverse impacts. To manage the environmental concerns during project
implementation, participatory arrangements will be instituted to ensure that investments conform to the
agreed eligible environmental criteria, are implemented in accordance to environmental starLdards, and
respond to feedback from monitoring.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Project performance review and participatory monitoring will be instituted to ensure that iavestments
conform to the agreed environmental standards. Project field staff, participating local NGC)s, and technical
specialists at each protected area will screen and ensure that site-specific plans meet the ervironmental
standards. They will guide and oversee the implementation of these plans, ensure that monitoring is relevant
and useful, and provide feedback to enable project managers to adjust project activities so that objectives of
protection of the environment are met.
Field-level participatory monitoring would be an integral part of microplan design and implementation.
Community members, local PA staff and NGOs will be jointly responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the microplans, which will include site-specific monitoring indicators to access project
performance, impacts on biodiversity and environmental conditions, and reciprocal commitments of local
communities to protect biodiversity. In addition, an independent review and impact monitoring is
envisaged. The objective of this exercise is to assess if project activities are meeting key objectives, namely
conservation of biodiversity and environmental conditions, and improving participation and livelihoods of
adjacent communities. The independent monitoring contract assignment will entail the design, development
and implementation of a conceptual framework for implementation of the monitoring program.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the projecl's social
development outcomes.
a. Social Issues:
The project is not planning any involuntary resettlement of people from communities and settlements
around or inside the PAs. The preliminary social assessment undertaken by IUCN as part of project
- 25 -



preparation has identified three key issues that must be taken into consideration during the detailed project
planning at the start of implementation. These include:
1. Restrictions on the access by surrounding communities to utilize resources within PAs to eliminate
ecological degradation of the PAs. Such restrictions will be based on a participatory baseline community
resource mapping to assess the canying capacity of the PAs with regard to specific forns of resource
utilization (pasture, fuelwood collection, cultivation, fishing, hunting), and possible restrictions will be
defined through consultation with the stakeholders utilizing the resource in question. Specific forns of
resource use may continue on a reduced scale or adhering to agreed management principles, and altemative
income generation measures will be agreed with those losing livelihood as a result of the restrictions. For
the three PAs, the situation is as follows:
Machiara: An estimated 2,800 households with varying ethnic affiliation live in communities around the
PA and are directly or indirectly dependent on resources within the PA for cultivation, grazing, and
collection of fuelwood and medicinal plants. The grazing involves migration to high altitude summer
pastures and temporary residence by both local and itinerant herdsmen. Data from the social assessment
indicates that 1,826 households have a high dependency on resources in the PA through reliance on a
combination of grazing, fuelwood collection, and agriculture. A total of 187 households own 12.2 acres of
agricultural land within the PA, and there are two permanent habitations located inside it. A MOU has been
drafted, which will provide for continued grazing as well as fuelwood and timber extraction for subsistence
needs by those dependent on PA resources under the oversight of VCCs and park administration.
Chitral Gol: An estimated 1,900 households live around the PA utilizing areas either bordering on or inside
the PA for grazing and collection of fuelwood and medicinal plants. The majority of the neighboring
population are Chitralis (mostly Sunni Muslims, but some Ismaili Shia), and around 280 households from
three villages are Pashtuns. Some of the Chitrali villages around the PA combine agriculture with livestock
rearing in high altitude pastures, and have pasture areas bordering or in the case of one village, inside the
PA. In addition, members of the non-Muslim Kalash minority from the Rumboor valley situated within the
buffer zone utilize areas bordering and possibly inside the PA for summer grazing and fuelwood collection.
For the Kalash, livestock husbandry centered on goat rearing has an important ritual and ideological
significance in being segregated from all other activities as an exclusively male and sacred domain, where
transhumant herding is almost the sole subsistence occupation of the male population. The Kalash summer
pastures, which are held as the collective property of each valley community, are situated above the upper
tributaries of their rivers. In contrast, agriculture in the valley bottoms is predominantly a female domain.
This dichotomy, which is at the center of Kalash culture, poses a particular challenge in terms of
introduction of culturally compatible altemative livelihood measures to offset possible restrictions in the
utilization of high alpine pastures.
Hingol: Around 750 households representing Makrani, Zikri Baloch and Baloch utilize the area for fishing,
subsistence livestock raising, and fuelwood and drinking water collection, while outsiders hunt inside the
PA. Most settlements are small, but the major village with around 380 households is located inside the PA
The Baloch are further subdivided into three major tribal groups, each with its own tribal leadership
residing outside the area.
2. Different livelihood strategies and competing claims to utilize resources involving different ethnic
groups constitute a potential source of conffict. Such potential for conflict seems to be most pronounced
in Chitral, where the Chitralis, who claim that their use rights predate the existing enforcement structure,
graze their livestock within the PA boundaries and the buffer zone. In contrast, the Pashtuns have less
well-established access rights than Chitralis, and there is a possibility that this will translate into conflicts
over resource use during project implementation. Moreover, in Chitral a potential for conflict may derive
from the seasonal migration into the area for summer grazing by people from communities in the upper
- 26 -



Chitral valley. In this context, the Kalash appear particularly vulnerable, and special measures will have to
be taken to ensure that their customary use rights are accommodated and their cultural identity not
undermined by restrictions on resource utilization in the PA. The project will endeavor to include these
ethnic and religious factors in designing community participation by ensuring that (a) all communities who
are stakeholders in the project are consulted; (b) access to resources is agreed upon in a collaborative
framework aiming for a balance between traditional rights and needs of communities; (c) the PMT is
composed of representatives of various ethnic groups, (d) close ties are maintained with iraditional
structures for conflict resolution; and (e) project field staff are properly trained and involhed in community
participation.
3. Effects on poor, women and other marginalized groups: Women are closely involved in resource use
in all three project sites, particularly in collection of drinking water. Around Machiara National Park,
women spend 13% of their time daily in fetching water, fuelwood collection and partially in grazing. Their
inclusion in project activities is, therefore, an important aspect of community participation. However,
women from communities around the three PAs display varying levels of education and mobility, highest in
Machiara, which also comprises a high level of female-headed households due to male out-migration, and
therefore possibly a higher level of female involvement in natural resource use. The project will assess these
factors in designing mechanisms for female participation. The project will endeavor to provide an increased
level of income for female-headed households and poor households dependent on natural resources by
providing opportunities for alternative income generation, together with credit and marker. linkages. This
effort will focus on such products as embroidery, cap and basket weaving, and carpet malking which are
mostly done by women.
Alternative income generation for poor households dependent on the Park will also aim tc ease pressure on
Park resources and provide a steady source of income. This will also help eliminate the cyclical nature of
poverty that affects local communities, particularly during winter. In addition, the project will encourage
the participation of women and marginalized groups by involving them in resource management and
ensuring that they are represented in VCCs and PMTs.
b. Negative effects of the project:
Changes in resource use pattern could lead to an increased volume of work for communities and place
greater demands on their time. Community woodlots, for example, may be situated away from the area
where fuelwood is gathered at present. In addition, changes in resource use may take time to bear fruit, and
in the intervening period this may cause communities to view the project negatively. It is also likely that
communities will resent the undesirable effects of tourism, such as pollution and a perceived erosion of the
cultural base. The project will carefully evaluate changes in resource use both in terms of time and labor
costs, and of the cultural appropriateness of the alternative income generation activities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups: Primary stakeholders include affected communities
that are resident in and around the Parks and make use of resources within core and buffer zones. In
Machiara these number around 2,800, in Chitral Gol about 1,900 households, and in Hingol around 750.
These communities will be the project's primary target group for provision of alternative sources of income
to offset possible loss of access to resources in the protected areas. Among this primary target group,
women, poor households and indigenous people (e.g. Kalash in Rumboor valley bordering Chitral Gol PA)
will be awarded special attention to ensure that the project provides particular benefits to them due both to
their dependence on resources in the parks and buffer zones, and their vulnerability.
b. Other key stakeholders: Other important stakeholder groups consist of NGOs, CBOs, govemnmental
- 27 -



agencies, and the private sector. NGOs are an important stakeholder group, particularly in the Chitral
Valley, because of their active involvement in biodiversity conservation and social mobilization. There are
also foreign-funded development projects in the area, including the Chitral Area Development Program and
the Environmental Rehabilitation Program, which are also semi-governmental in nature. Other potential
stakeholders include the private sector, particularly individuals and business concerns that have a direct or
indirect interest in biodiversity conservation and ecotourism. The benefit of involving private businesses
and individuals, particularly with regard to the fund-raising activities of the Park Association, is a major
reason for counting them as important stakeholders.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations with a range of stakeholders were undertaken as part of the social assessment process during
project preparation. In addition to the concerned wildlife, forestry and other government departments, these
consultations included (i) IUCN-P, WWF-P and other NGOs active in the project areas, (ii) communities
living in and/or around the protected areas to identify production and livelihood patterns involving a
dependence on resources in the parks, and (iii) the ex-Mehtar of Chitral to resolve claims regarding the
Chitral Gol PA. Key consultations are summarized below:
Stakeholders                                Output                                       Timing
Local communities of Chitral, Machiara, and   *  Extent of resource utilization in PAs,  Nov-Dec 1996
Hingol dependent on resources in the PAs      *  Local perceptions,
* Seasonal resource utilization patterns,
* Gender roles and needs assessment,
* Problem identification and ranking,
* Potential mitigation measures
MELGRD, Prov. Departments of Wildlife &     Measures to resolve claims regarding the     Dec. 96 to
Forestry, Ex-Mehtar of Chitral, and Tribal  protected areas (e.g. dialogue between Gov. of  March 1997
Leaders in Hingol area                      NWFP and the ex-Mehtar)
Local NGOs                                  Identification and impact assessment of existing  From Nov-Dec
awareness raising concerning conservation and  96 onwards
environment, and of development activities in the
areas
IUCN-P, WWF-P, MELGRD, Provincial           Discussions within the Biodiversity Working  At various
Wildlife & Forestry Departments, and Federal    Group on global priorities for PA development,    stages during
level agencies                              PA selection criteria, shortlisting and      project
identification.                              preparation
In August 2000, consultations between the Tourism, Wildlife, Archaeology and Fisheries Secretariat from
the Govermment of Azad Jammu & Kashmnir, and the custodian communities of Machiara resulted in an
MOU which provides the custodial communities access to resources like grazing and fuelwood collection in
the PA.
During project implementation, local NGOs with experience in planning and implementation of
participatory community development and income generation activities will be engaged to facilitate the
involvement of custodial communities in the planning and execution of resource management strategies and
mitigation measures.
- 28 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The social development outcome of improved livelihood for custodial communities through their
involvement in biodiversity conservation will be achieved through a participatory planning process
regarding both restrictions in resource use within the PAs and alternative income generation activities to
offset income losses from such restrictions. The scope, nature and range of investments will be determined
and implemented by local communities on a village by village basis according to local environmental
conditions and needs. With the use of participatory rural appraisal surveys and techniques, village
communities will be assisted to determine alternative income and development investmenls based on agreed
criteria and procedures which ensures that investments are focused on addressing current pressures on the
protected area resources. Using these eligibility criteria, the project team will ensure that (i) investments
are ecologically and environmentally sound and support the conservation objective, (ii) they constitute
economically viable and culturally acceptable alternatives to the resource use they replace, and (iii) they are
financially, technically, and institutionally sustainable. The institutional arrangements foi participatory
project preparation and implementation is described in Section C: Project Description Summary.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The monitoring system will be designed to provide for continuous learning and adjustment of approach, and
will involve participatory monitoring based on self-defined indicators (by community focus groups, VCCs,
PMTs), input and output monitoring data from the PMT and PMU, impact/outcome monitoring by an
independent monitoring agency (for midterm review and ICR), and Bank supervision. Social development
outcomes will be monitored through indicators regarding community participation in conservation,
mitigation planning and implementation, community compliance with resource use agreeraents, and the
outcomes of income generation activities. The monitoring arrangements and key indicators are described in
Section C: Project Description Summary. A detailed monitoring plan will be prepared before
implementation begins, and will be submitted for Bank clearance.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Appi1csbili!y
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes C No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 6 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 6 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes C No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes C No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0O No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 06 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): The project is classified as Category B, requiring environmental
analysis at the level of village-level investments and short of a full-scale environmental irnpact assessment.
Simplified environmental screening will be undertaken for all project-level investments te be financed.
Standard formats and checklists will be developed early in project implementation to facilitate screening of
village level investments. Comprehensive training of staff, NGOs and local communities will be instituted
to enable them to apply criteria on proposed investments for their conformity with environmental, social,
- 29 -



technical and economic feasibility requirements, and monitor conformity to these standards.
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) and Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20): Since the exact social impacts
of sub-projects will only be established during project implementation, compliance with the requirements of
both ODs is established through a process framework, which will ensure that mitigation of any negative
impacts deriving from restrictions on access by local communities to resources in the PAs will be based on
participatory resource mapping involving the affected stakeholders, and on their consent regarding the scale
of the restrictions and the type of mitigation measures to compensate loss of income. This approach is
described in the Process Frameworkfor Participation of Custodial Communities in Annex 2, and under
Section C.4 on Institutional and Implementation Arrangements and Section E.6 on Social.
Involuntari Resettlement: While the project is not planning any involuntary resettlement, elimination of
ecological degradation of the PAs will require introduction of restrictions on the utilization of resources in
the PAs by people from communities or settlements neighboring or inside these areas. In Machiara, the
restrictions and mitigation measures will focus on (i) a participatory fuelwood impact assessment and
alleviation strategy, (ii) a management strategy for use of summer and winter pastures, (iii) management of
no-timber forest products, and (iv) management of illegal timber extraction. For Chitral Gol, the issues are
the same, whereas for Hingol, the issue is management of fisheries within the estuarine and marine zone of
the PA.
In addition to changes of management practices to make continued resource utilization near or inside the
PAs sustainable, a range of income generation measures to mitigate income losses are being considered
under the project. These income generation activities are based on initial field appraisal during project
preparation and the experience from similar projects in the country (e.g. by AKRSP), and could include
improved agricultural practices, minor irrigation and erosion protection works, processing of agricultural
products, medicinal and non-timber forest produce, energy conservation measures, and skills development
in non-farm enterprises such as cottage industries, bee keeping, sericulture and eco-tourism. Some of these
activities would require access to credit and establishment of market linkages. The specific types of income
generation activities to be included in microplans will be determined through site specific feasibility
assessments in consultation with the concerned stakeholders. Annual project work plans including
management arrangements for community access to resources in PAs and associated mitigation measures
will require Bank agreement.
Indigenous Peoples: In all the three PAs, the groups affected by the project exhibit characteristics which
conform to some or all of the criteria defining indigenous groups (i.e. identification by self and others as
culturally distinct, close attachment to ancestral land, distinct language, customary social and political
institutions, and primarily subsistence oriented production). The approach described above (and in Section
C.4 and E.6) for involvement of stakeholder communities is legally covenanted in the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement, which stipulates that the provincial authorities shall ensure that any desired changes in the
ways in which local populations exercise customary tenure rights in the PAs will not be imposed on them
but will emerge from a consultative process, satisfactory to the Bank.
- 30 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of project intervention is assured through various means, including (i) financial mechanisms
to cover the recurrent costs of activities through a Trust, which will itself be sustained through fund-raising
activities within the country; (ii) establishment of grassroots institutions, which will empowver local
communities to conserve biodiversity within PAs; (iii) building capacity within provincial agencies for
effective management of PAs without increasing the total number of staff unduly and (iv) creating
awareness of the importance of conservation. The project faces the risk of increasing the expectations of
local communities regarding the levels of expected income from tourism and other activities. Tourism may
not provide adequate income generation to create the necessary incentives for people to honor agreements
controlling resource use. The project will aim to manage this risk through creating a Trust Fund that will
support, among other initiatives, alternative income-generating programs as an incentive mnechanism for
local communities to satisfy the agreements on resource use. Another risk involves the potential for
escalating tensions between communities on resource-sharing arrangements. This is particularly true for
Chitral Gol, where several ethnic groups are stakeholders in the project. The project will include this risk in
timing the pace of establishing community structures. Special attention will need to be given to establishing
a consensus on restrictions placed on resource use and access to resources before formalizing them, so that
common consent to respect these arrangements is in place.
Another risk is posed by the lack of community organizations in communities around Hingol NP. In
particular, the female population in Hingol is not easily approached due to tribal and traditional practices.
The risk that community organizations will not involve all key stakeholders is, therefore, a relatively high
risk in Hingol. The project aims to pace activities in this area at a slow rate, which will allow local
communities to organize effectively and to facilitate the involvement of women by using NJGOs that have
experience dealing with participation and gender issues in similar circumstances.
The process of public participation may increase local conflicts in communities affected by the project.
Conflicts on sharing of resources, limits on resource use and on access to alternative incorne generation
activities are possible. The diversity of communities may pose as the backdrop for these conflicts and
consensus building on sharing of resources may prove to be difficult. To manage this risk, ihe project will
involve NGOs and CBOs active in the area to organize appropriate forum for discussion amd to assist
communities decide on resource sharing and conflict resolution arrangements.
Another possible risk faced by the project is that alternative means for meeting people's dependence on
natural resources (set aside cultivation plots, forest plantations for fuelwood) may take a long period of
time to be fully operational and effective. Benefits from these activities and from ensuing :.-eduction in PA
use may not appear until the later stages of the project. These activities will need to be closely
programmed, monitored and enforced. Additionally, people may not respect restrictions orl resource use or
honor the agreements that place curbs on their access to the PA. This may result in raising people's income
through income-generating activities with no corresponding reduction in harmful resource use. The project
will approach this risk by vesting the responsibility for compliance with VCCs and monitored by the PMC.
The VCCs are likely to exert peer pressure on sections of the community who violate agreements on
resource use. During the life of the project, revenue disbursement arrangements could be structured to
ensure that funds are disbursed fully once the community has complied with the village agreements. These
risks are real and have the potential to effect the project's success.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continued political will to support the    M         Ongoing involvement of provincial and federal
integrity of the PAs as wildlife refuges.            government in project implementation, capacity
building.
Enforced prohibition of mineral and other   N        Confirmation from provincial governments that
resource extraction. No other development            no projects/development plans will be
plans or projects are implemented that               implemented that threaten biodiversity.
could pose a threat to biodiversity
conservation in the three PAs.
PA staff are adequately trained.            S         Strong training component to upgrade staff
skills. Technical Assistance will be planned to
be available at the most critical times when staff
skills may need support (e.g., at project
start-up).
From Components to Outputs
Transparent, mutually endorsed checks       S         Public environmental awareness; facilitation of
and balances in place between                         intemal tourism.
communities and Govt. decision making
that are respected by both parties.
Communities continue to perceive linkage   M          Income generation projects, ecotourism
between PA conservation and income                    development. Awareness building.
sources.
Foreign and local interest in initiating    S         Publicity and awareness building for tourism,
educational tours of the PAs is                      tourist facilities provided.
maintained; information gained from
tours/training is applied to PA
management.
Availability of domestic and foreign        N         Park Association management to involve
resources.                                           fund-raising activities, involvement of private
sector.
Govt. implements commitments on             N         Park Association Endowment funds from the
site-specific land-use decisions and                  project to be released once criteria for the
political and institutional support to the            incorporation of the Park Association are met.
project.
Political will to preserve the ecological  M          Demonstrations of the economic significance of
integrity of PAs.                                    the PAs through the development of tourism and
the capability of the Park Association to
contribute financially towards the sustainability
of conservation activities in the PAs
- 32 -



Potential reluctance of implementing       M         With strong TA support, a clear participatory
agencies to grant project planning and               decision-making process from the outset
implementation decision-making powers                involving local communittes and staff from
to local communities.                                government technical agencies within Project
Management Teams that develop enforceable
resource-sharing agreements and resolve
people-wildlife management conflicts.
Community ownership and integration        M          Communities will be consulted from the outset
will be a slow process and prone to                  in microplanning exercises for each PA. The TA
increasing conflicts on resource use.                component for social integration will be
Transparent mutually respected checks                provided by international and local experts with
and balances are in place between the                proven experience in participatory
government and communities, which are                implementation. Existing social structures for
respected by both.                                    conflict resolution will be involved in
formulating restrictions on resource use and
clarifying resource rights bt manage conflicts.
Overall Risk Rating                         5        Substantial Risk
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Part of the land in Chitral Valley is disputed by the ex-Mehtar (chief) of Chitral who ruled Chitral State
until it became a part of Pakistan in 1974. The GoNWFP's stance on the issue is that the Mehtar has been
provided adequate compensation for the land. The Mehtar contests that compensation was not adequate and
did not cover the entire area owned by him, which was acquired by the Govermment. The issue is pending a
legal decision. The Bank had sought legal advice on the case and its potential effects on the project's
activities, and the Bank had also encouraged GoNWFP to seek similar advice. Based on the outcome of this
exercise, the Bank has requested GoNWFP to take specific steps to ensure that project activities are
implemented without hindrance. The GoNWFP has accordingly revised the Notification of October 28,
1984 related to the delimitation of the Chitral Gol National Park to include the following principles: (i) that
private lands within the park boundaries remain under their current status, and (ii) that without prejudice to
the objective of biodiversity conservation, the rights of the owners of private lands within the Park will be
fully respected under the law of Pakistan. It is unlikely that project outcomes would be affected due to this
dispute, therefore, this aspect is rated as modest risk.
Logging activities were carried out in Machiara National Park by an AJK parastatal - Azad Kashmir
Logging and Sawmill Corporation (AKLASC). Licenses to extract dead and fallen trees had been provided
to extractors before the area was declared a National Park. GoAJK has terminated all logging operations as
of December 31, 1999. Prior extraction has taken place with minimum damage to biodiver.sity in the Park.
The project had undertaken a rapid assessment of the logging operations in Machiara and come to the
conclusion that logging operations were small and confined in nature, and incurred limitecL environmental
disturbances. Since GoAJK has provided assurance that no new logging activity will be initiated in the
National Park area in the future, this aspect is rated as low risk.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
- 33 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1.     Each Beneficiary shall, not later than July 31, 2001 and for purposes of guiding and monitoring the
implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, establish, and thereafter maintain, a Provincial Project
Steering Committee, consisting of senior representatives of government agencies responsible for land,
forestry, environment, planning, finance, agriculture and local government, and other such agencies as are
deemed relevant for coordination of activities in the relevant Protected Area, and representatives of
conservation Non-Government Organizations and specialist groups.
2.     The Recipient shall, not later than July 31, 2001 and for purposes of ensuring consistency in
project approaches, disseminating lessons and experiences and providing overall guidance on wildlife
policy and priorities, establish a Federal Steering Committee, consisting of senior representatives of
MELGRD and the Recipient's Planning and Development, Economic Affairs and Finance Divisions, and
representatives of each Provincial Project Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 1 above and key
national level conservation Non-Government Organizations.
3.     Each Beneficiary shall, not later than July 31, 2001, establish and thereafter maintain a Project
Management Team, consisting of: (a) a Project Manager, who shall be a park staff, as team leader, together
with other park staff as needed; (b) a Park Planner, a Social Planner, and two Social Mobilizers selected
from the consultants' team appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to Trust
Fund Grant Agreement, and (c) representatives of the custodial communities.
4.     The Recipient and each Beneficiary shall ensure that:
(a) key staff involved in carrying out the Project will not be transferred during the Project
implementation period without the prior concurrence of the Bank; and
(b) without limiting the generality of Section 9.05 of the General Conditions, all vehicles financed
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will be used exclusively for the purposes of
carrying out the Project.
5.     Each Beneficiary shall, for the purposes of Part A. I of the Project, develop and fuarish to the
Bank for its concurrence, not later than October 31, 2001:
(a) procedures and criteria for preparation and implementation of Micro-plans;
(b) standard format for a memorandum of understanding between a local community and park
management authorities for implementation of Micro-plans;
(c) procedures and eligibility criteria for financing Village-Level Investment Activities;
(d) procedures and principles for channeling resources to village conservation committees for
sanctioned Village-Level Investment Activities; and
(e) conflict resolution and grievance redress procedures for managing conflicts between custodial
communities over resource use rights, and between custodial communities or individuals and
park management authorities.
6.     Each Beneficiary shall develop and furnish to the Bank for its concurrence, not later than
December 31, 2001, procedures and criteria for preparing and implementing the park management plan
included in Part A.2 of the Project.
7.     The Recipient, in consultation with the concemed Beneficiary, shall, for the purposes of Part B of
the Project:
- 34 -



(a) not later than December 31, 2002 , develop and furnish to the Bank for its concurrence detailed
procedures, criteria, bye-laws, legal instruments and other documentation for the establishment
of a Park Association or Park Associations and a Park Endowment or Park Endowments; and
(b) not later than September 30, 2003, implement policy and legal measures, satLsfactory to the
Bank, required to allow the Park Association or the Park Associations and the Park
Endowment or the Park Endowments to operate in accordance with its or their bye-laws.
8.     Each Beneficiary shall ensure that, with respect to the Park Endowment to be established by it
separately or jointly with the other Beneficiaries under Part B of the Project:
(a) during the Project implementation period or the first three years of the Park Endowment's
operations, whichever is longer, the selection and appointment of each member of the Board of
Directors of the Park Association responsible for the Park Endowment will be subject to the
Bank's no-objection;
(b) the Board of Directors of the Park Association responsible for the Park Endcwment will
exercise close control over the use of the Park Endowment;
(c) the Park Endowment will follow the Bank's procurement and financial managrement guidelines;
and
(d) during the Project implementation period or the first three years of the Park ]Endowment's
operations, whichever is longer, the Bank will be promptly furnished with the Park
Endowment's annual audit reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
9.     To assist with the implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, the Recipient and the
Beneficiaries shall furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 of each year, starting June 30, 2002, for its
review, a preliminary annual work plan, including updated Project cost tables, training arid contracting
plans and other matters agreed with the Bank; and shall thereafter implement the final work plans taking
into account the Bank's comments. The preliminary work plan for the first project year ;hall be submitted
not later than September 30, 2001.
10.    The Recipient shall develop and furnish to the Bank for its concurrence, not later than October 31,
2001, draft terms of reference for the study included in Part D.3 of the Project.
11.   The Beneficiaries shall not undertake any activities which will undermine the bio-diversity
conservation and participatory management objectives of the Project. For the purposes of this paragraph,
such objectives shall be deemed to be so undermined if there is:
(a) an increase in the level of encroachment or displacement of persons such as to materially and
adversely affect the objectives of the Project;
(b) a disruption of migrations of ecologically important species, such as a net loss of wildlife
corridors; or
(c) fragmentation or degradation of habitats or disturbance to ecosystems and species or changes
in the legal status of any of the Protected Areas such as to materially and adversely affect (i)
the viability of ecologically important ecosystems and species, or (ii) the strategy of increased
collaboration between custodial communities and park management authorities.
12.    The Beneficiaries shall ensure that any schemes for the voluntary relocation of persons from within
and around the Protected Areas, will be prepared and implemented in accordance with principles and
procedures agreed with the Bank, and after prior approval of the Bank.
- 35 -



13.   The Beneficiaries shall ensure that any desired changes in the ways in which local populations
exercise customary tenure rights in the Protected Areas will not be imposed on them but will emerge from a
consultative process, satisfactory to the Bank.
14.   AJK shall not carry out, or permit to be carried out, any logging operations in the Machiara
National Park.
15.   Balochistan shall not construct water diversion works or dams on the Hingol River which will
disturb the ecology of the Hingol estuary.
16.   Balochistan shall, not later than September 30, 2002, implement appropriate measures, satisfactory
to the Bank, to restrict illegal trawler fishing within the Hingol National Park marine area..
17.   The Recipient and the Beneficiaries shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
canrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
(b) prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank, by September 30, 2003, reports integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said reports
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) review with the Bank, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the
reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Sectiohi, and, thereafter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank's views on the
matter.
The following conditions of Negotiations have been satisfied:
(a) the Governments of AJK, Balochistan and NWFP have confirmed that they will not undertake
activities that will undermine the objectives of biodiversity conservation in the protected areas;
(b) the Government of AJK has confirmed that all logging operations in Machiara have been
terminated, as of December 31, 1999, and that no such new activity will be initiated in the National
Park area;
(c) the GoNWFP has provided the revised Notification of October 28, 1984 related to the delimitation
of the Chitral Gol National Park to include the following principles: (i) the private lands within the
park boundaries remain under their current status, and (ii) without prejudice to the objective of
biodiversity conservation, the rights of the owners of private lands within the Park will be fully
respected under the law of Pakistan;
(d) the key project staff consisting of a Project Director, a Park Manager and an Accounts Officer
have been appointed for each Protected Area (PA) by the Governments of AJK, Balochistan and
NWFP, respectively; and
(e) the Governments of AJK, Balochistan, NWFP and MELGRD have established a computerized
procurement and contract management system.
- 36 -



(f) the Governments of AJK, Balochistan and NWFP have endorsed the addition of 'Process
Frameworkfor Participation of Custodial Communities in Park Management and Conservation'
to the PAD.
(g) that the Governments of AJK, Balochistan and NWFP have each completed the TA procurement
and selected the firmtNGO for providing technical assistance support for project irnplementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
.-A
NajibMurt.i Riwn    U
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                            Manager
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assuptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To conserve Pakistan's natural Improvement in the quality    Reports of Ministry of  GoP maintains its
resources and foster their    and extent of natural resources Environment; donor sector    commitment to biodiversity
stability.                in Pakistan and reduction in  reviews, reports of      conservation.
the degree of threat to their   environmental organizations.
existence.
GEF Operational Program:
Global Objective:          Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
To achieve active, sustainable Reduction in rate of loss of   Report of independent  Resources are not diverted
conservation of globally and  threatened species and  monitors such as NGOs,    from other PAs, institutions
nationally significant habitats vulnerable vegetation types in enviromnental research  cooperate in efficient
and species within Protected  three PAs by the end of the    bodies.             implementation of PA
Areas (PAs) of Pakistan.  project.                                               management during and after
Active Village Conservation                          the project.
Committees achieving
reductions in people-wildlife
management conflicts within
PAs and buffer zones.
Local awareness of linkages
between PA management,
biodiversity conservation and
community/household welfare.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Improved protection and   Maintenance of stable and    Surveys, transect/plot  Political will exists to support
rehabilitation of habitats  adequately sized populations  sampling; fixed point  the integrity of the PAs as
encompassing mountain, arid  of key fauna and flora species. photography.        wildlife refuges.
rangeland, estuarine and
marine ecosystems.
- 38 -



2. Maintenance of animal    Maintenance or increase of   Census/transect walking;  High genetic heterogeneity of
populations.              animal                     game                      founder
3. Security of wildlife.  Reduction/control of hunting  Site evidence; game warden   Prohibition of mineral and
and other wildlife        records; random surveillance. other resource extraction is
disturbances; reduction of                           enforced. Adequate training is
livestock kept within the PAs.                       provided to government staff
and the community.
4. Developed income       Number of local residents  Household surveys;        No other development plans or
opportunities reliant on  employed in PA operations;  employment records of tour   projects are implemented that
sustained preservation of the  increase in incremental  operators; visitor records;    could pose a threat to
PAs.                      income; increase in tour   inspection of audited accounts biodiversity conservation in
operator revenues;        of tour operators and the Park the three PAs.
sustainability of Park    Association.
Association.
5. Strengthened institutions.  Number of trained technical  Departmental training  Govt. budgetary resources and
staff and local community    records; community/NGO  financial support from the
participants; accoutrement of  surveys; inventory records;   Park Association Endowment
technical staff and community local language documentation. are sufficient to maintain
participants; adoption of codes                      investments in human
of conduct and conflict                              resource development.
resolution procedures.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (fr om Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Protected Area Biodiversity Timely use of project inputs in PMU project procurement and Transparent, mutually
Management                the form of:               disbursement documentation. endorsed checks and balances
in place between communities
and Govt. decision making
that are respected by both
parties.
- 39 -



1.la Integration of custodial  Deployment of sociological   PMU semi-annual project    Communities continue to
communities: community    teams; mobilization of     implementation reports;    perceive linkage between PA
orientation and mobilization, optimum number of      documentation on output of   preservation and income
social assessment, design and households involved in joint  project activities.    i  sources.
implementation of         PA management; production
microplanning investments   of formal agreements between
Government and communities Documentation of Bank/GEF  Governments are not reluctant
for reciprocal responsibilities  supervision missions  to grant project planning and
and benefits in joint PA  inspecting field work.     Implementation decision-
management.                                          making powers to local
communities.
TA and limited financial
support in the form of "                             Adequately trained personnel
matching funds" to support                           are available for project
local income generation                              implementation.
activities and ecotourism.
I lb Formulation and      Baseline research program  Project mid-term and      Community integration and
implementation of detailed    conducted that provides  completion studies according  ownership can be achieved
Park Management Plans and  essential information on status to agreed WB/GEF technical  and methods for resolving
Strategies.               of species; periodic update of terms of references.  community conflicts on
vegetative mapping/wildlife                          resource use are in place.
inventories; fixed-point                             Foreig and local interest in
photography; establishment of                        initiating educational tours of
zoological and botanical                             the PAs is maintained;
collections; physiognomic                            infortation gained from
vegetation mapping;                                  tours/training is applied to PA
geological surveys.                                  management.
1.2 Improvement of park    Improvement of internal PA                          Availability of domestic and
infrastructure            roads; construction of PA                             foreign resources;
gates and small visitors'                            Govt. implements
centers and ranger field                             commitments on site-specific
stations and provision of                            land-use decisions and
tourism amenities.                                   political and institutional
support to the project.
1.3 Improvement of park   Development of internal
operations                conmmunications between PA
staff; recruitment of local,
honorary game wardens;
provision of equipment for
observation; limited
recruitment of professional
staff.
1.4 Habitat improvement and Rehabilitation of land and
wildlife enricbment       vegetative resources;
modification of land-use
patterns; temporary
exclosures; in situ breeding;
species re-introduction;
targeted interventions for key
species protection;
-40 -



1.5 Public environmental     Dissemination material and
awareness and outreach       information at the project
sites; publicity campaigns
targeting decision makers,
politicians, foreign hunters,
military, coast guard, schools,
mass media.
2. Sustainability of Park    Project support to define the
Management through the       financial, institutional and
establishment of a Park      administrative functions of the
Association                  Trust; recruitment of a
volunteer Board of Directors;
successful fund-raising
campaigns raising matching
funds for contribution to the
Trust.
3. Human resource            Training courses; study tours; Departmental/PMU training
development                  research opportunities and    records.
seminars.
4. Project coordination and
monitoring
- 41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
BACKGROUND
Independent evaluations of Pakistan's Protected Areas network, comprising some 219 national parks,
wildlife sanctuaries and game reserves, indicate that a complex array of interrelated factors must be taken
into account when designing investments aimed at strengthening the country's in situ biodiversity
conservation efforts. The primary factors that influence effective management of PAs in Pakistan are:
(i) rigid enforcement has almost invariably failed to adequately protect in situ wildlife populations,
which continue to decline despite the best intentioned efforts of provincial and territorial wildlife
departments. Clearly, PAs cannot be ensured through strict application of fines or penalties, as
implemented under the traditional "ward and watch" practices followed until recently;
(ii) poor relations between the local people and park authorities lie at the root of the weak management
accomplishments to date. People-park conflicts are usually linked with disputed usufruct rights, an
increasing human population and a constantly declining natural resource base;
(iii) while PAs must retain biodiversity conservation and strictly controlled human exploitation as
fundamental objectives, lessons emerging from experiments in PA management throughout the
developing world repeatedly point to the need to involve local communities in park planning and
decision making. Besides increasing public support for PAs, co-management may also reduce
operational and recurrent costs, bring new skills to bear (such as traditional knowledge), and
increase the potential area available for biodiversity conservation through the inclusion of
landscape-sized ecological management units;
(iv) in addition to this inherent biological merit, community-based management helps to preserve
cultural values within the area concerned. The communities' aspirations, management actions and
responsibilities with regard to a particular PA are best conveyed through a well-defined
management plan that clearly articulates each entity's management and development goals and
objectives; and
(v) trained largely as traditional foresters or wildlife biologists, most wildlife department staff lack the
necessary skills for constructively engaging local communities and conducting the necessary
socioeconomic assessments required for effectively integrating and reconciling dual goals of
conservation and development using holistic management plans to guide the park's operations and
to achieve its biodiversity conservation objectives.
THE PROJECT
The objective of this project is to achieve the sustainable conservation of globally and nationally significant
habitats and species within Pakistan through a series of integrated activities aimed at engaging local
communities in the management of selected protected areas. Specialist advice, baseline studies, workshops
and study tours, training and NGO-based technical assistance will facilitate these activities.
The project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
*   Reduce park-people conflicts by integrating local communities into park planning and management
activities.
*   Improve park planning processes and build capacity to:
- 42 -



(i) prepare and periodically update management plans;
(ii) improve surveillance and enforcement; and
(iii) enhance park infrastructure.
*  Protect and effectively manage species, habitats and ecosystems within and near the PA to:
(i) enhance globally important species and habitats, and better assure a functional ecosystem by
integrating the park into local landscapes;
(ii) control poaching, animal damage and other disruptions;
(iii) reduce people-park conflicts; and
(iv) manage enterprise opportunities and park visitation without environmental ham.
*   Strengthen local, regional and national support for PAs through focused public environmental
awareness and outreach activities.
*   Train and upgrade the capacity of staff and local communities to guide park management (see
Human Resource Development).
By Component:
Project Component I - US$7.02 million
PROTECTED AREA BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT
SUBCOMPONENT 1: PROCESS FRAMEWORK FOR PARTICIPATION OF CUSTCO)DIAL
COMMUNITIES IN PARK MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION
This Process Framework for involvement of communities affected by the project establis'hes compliance
with the World Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement and OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples. Since
the exact social impacts of village level investments will only be identified during project implementation,
the Process Framework will ensure that mitigation of any negative impacts deriving from restrictions on
access by local communities to resources in the Protected Areas will be based on participatory resource
mapping involving the affected stakeholders, and on their consent regarding the scale of the restrictions and
the type of mitigation measures to compensate loss of income. Consensus by affected local stakeholders
regarding restrictions in resource assess is covenanted in the legal agreement for the prcn ect - the Trust
Fund Grant Agreement - which stipulates, that the provincial authorities in charge of the PAs shall ensure
that any desired changes in the ways in which local populations exercise customary tenure rights in the PAs
will not be imposed on them but will emerge from a consultative process, satisfactory to the Bank. Annual
project work plans including management arrangements for community access to resourzes in PAs and
associated mitigation measures will require Bank agreement.
The setting: conservation and restrictions in resource access in the three PAs
While the project is not planning any involuntary resettlement, restrictions on the access by surrounding
communities to utilize resources within the PAs will need to be introduced to stop ecological degradation of
the three PAs. However, specific forns of resource use may continue on a reduced scale or through
adhering to agreed management principles, and altemative income generation measures will be agreed with
those losing livelihood as a result of the restrictions. For the three PAs, the situation is as follows:
Machiara: An estimated 2,800 households with varying ethnic or tribal affiliation Choudhrys Rajas,
Syeds, and Khawajas) live in communities around the PA and are directly or indirectly (lependent on
resources within the PA for cultivation, grazing, and collection of fuelwood and medicinal plants. The
grazing involves migration to high altitude summer pastures and temporary residence by both local and
itinerant herdsmen. Data from the social assessment undertaken during project preparation indicates that
- 43 -



1,826 households have a high dependency on resources in the PA through reliance on a combination of
grazing, fuelwood collection, and agriculture. A total of 187 households own 12.2 acres of agricultural land
within the PA, and there are two permanent habitations located inside it. An MOU has been drafted, which
will provide for continued grazing as well as fuelwood and timber extraction for subsistence needs by those
dependent on PA resources under the oversight of VCCs and park administration.
Chitral Gol: An estimated 1,900 households live around the PA utilizing areas either bordering on or
inside the PA for grazing and collection of fuelwood and medicinal plants. The majority of the neighboring
population are Chitralis (mostly Sunni Muslims, but some Ismaili Shia), and there are around 280 Pashtun
households in three villages. Some of the Chitrali villages around the PA combine agriculture with livestock
rearing in high altitude pastures, and have pasture areas bordering or in the case of one village, inside the
PA. In addition, members of the non-Muslim Kalash minority from the Rumboor valley situated within the
buffer zone utilize areas bordering and possibly inside the PA for summer grazing and fuelwood collection.
For the Kalash, livestock husbandry centered on goat rearing has an important ritual and ideological
significance in being segregated from all other activities as an exclusively male and sacred domain, where
transhumant herding is almost the sole subsistence occupation of the male population. The Kalash summer
pastures, which are held as the collective property of each valley community, are situated above the upper
tributaries of their rivers. In contrast, agriculture in the valley bottoms is predominantly a female domain.
This dichotomy, which is at the center of Kalash culture, poses a particular challenge in terms of
introduction of culturally compatible altemative livelihood measures to offset possible restrictions in the
utilization of high alpine pastures.
Hingol: Around 750 households representing Makrani, Zikri Baloch and Baloch utilize the area for
fishing, subsistence livestock raising, and fuelwood and drinking water collection, while outsiders hunt
inside the PA. Most settlements are small, but the major village with around 380 households is located
inside the PA. The Baloch are further subdivided into three major tribal groups, each with its own tribal
leadership residing outside the area.
Institutional set-up for integration of custodial communities into park management
In order to facilitate participation of local communities, the project will form Village Conservation
Committees (VCCs) at the village level or for each cluster of harmlets. All households in a village can
become members of the VCC and would be responsible for nominating 3-7 members to serve as officers of
the VCC. Provisions should be made to ensure that the interests of women are represented in the VCC.
Existing (CBOs) will be used wherever feasible in terms of their functions, composition and
representativeness.
A Project Management Team (PMT) will be constituted at each park site to provide the technical and
planning inputs for implementing project activities. The PMT will be a tripartite entity consisting of park
staff with the Project Manager as Team Leader, the TA entity, and nominated representatives of the
custodial communities. The Project Management Team will be in a position to continue to function beyond
the project period as a Park Management Team, with the same composition of implementing agency staff
and community representatives, but without the TA staff. The PMT's primary responsibilities will include
(i) inforrnation dissemination, social mobilization and formation of village-level institutions, (ii) the design
and conducting of social and resource utilization surveys, (iii) formulation of a management plan for the
PA in conjunction with local communities, (iv) undertaking of field surveys/studies and implementation of
habitat improvement measures in conjunction with local communities, (v) implementation of community
development and income generation activities to mitigate limitations in access to resources in the PAs. (v)
implementation of park infrastructure, (vi) communication, and (vii) monitoring of community and
conservation activities . All management arrangements and community microplan investments at the local
level will be detailed in legal agreements between the VCCs and the PMT. In addition, the PMT will
- 44 -



coordinate with other development projects through the Local Advisory Committee (LAC) or any existing
coordinating arrangement.
Community representation in the PMT will reflect the major stakeholders (e.g. villages and ethnic groups)
whose resource utilization has an influence on the planned conservation in the PA. The community
representatives in the PMT will be nominated by the VCCs, and will help coordinate community
participation and investment strategies at the level of the park and its vicinity, as well as assist in ensuring
that approved microplan investments and community-based park management activities are implemented
according to agreements reached. They would also nominate suitable persons to attend training courses in
order to build local capacity to plan and implement agreed activities.
To assist the PMT with regard to the planning, implementation and monitoring of microplans for clusters
of villages around the PAs, a Park Community Planning Unit (PCPU) will be established comprising the
Park Rangers, TA entity, and nominated community representatives. Whereas the PMT will operate at the
level of the project, the PCPU will deal with different clusters of VCCs defined in terms of the nature of
their dependency and impacts on the PA, or other characteristics that defune them as an entity on a higher
level than the individual VCC. The PCPU will help coordinate community participation ,md investment
strategies for the involved VCCs, and ensure that approved microplan investments and ccmmunity-based
park management activities are implemented according to agreements reached.
Local Advisory Committees (LACs) were formed during project preparation and will continue during
implementation. Each LAC will comprise representatives of the PMT, the local communities, local
government, NGOs and related rural support agencies. The LAC's role will be to ensure integration of
project activities in the overall development strategies and activities in the three project areas. LACs will
liaise with other governmental and development agencies active in the area to where possible coordinate
project implementation and access resources from other programs.
Overlapping or conflicting claims to resources by stakeholders are likely to come out in the open during the
participatory resource mapping and planning exercise. If such disputes cannot be solved by the PMT and
the concerned VCCs, the project will pursue arbitration under an arrangement which closely resembles
customary conflict resolution. Each party to the conflict nominates one representative who then agrees on
an independent mediator/arbitrator to facilitate reaching a compromise. The decision mediated by the
arbitrator and agreed to by the two representatives of the conflicting parties will be binding.
For each of the PAs, a technical assistance entity consisting of a park planner, a social scientist, two
social mobilizers, and an environmental awareness specialist will assist the Park Manager and his staff
during the project period. The positions for the two social mobilizers will become permament additions to
the PMT. Training of PMT staff including the technical assistance entity and support regarding surveys,
community participation, planning and implementation will be provided by a social scientist and park
planner, both of whom will be intemationally recruited. At the outset of the project, the team, including the
social mobilizers, will be trained in community participation techniques. Consultative and planning tools to
be used will inter alia include PRA (Participatory Rural Appraisal), and techniques described in PAMIA
(Protected Areas Mutual Interaction Assessment used by the World Bank assisted India Ecodevelopment
Project). PAMIA offers diverse tools for identifying mutual interactions between the park and local
communities, followed by the identification of possible solutions and the development of reciprocal
commnitments by the parties regarding conservation and management agreements.
Local NGOs with experience in planning and implementation of participatory commnunity development and
income generation activities will be engaged to facilitate the involvement of custodial ccmmunities in the
- 45 -



planning and execution of resource management strategies and mitigation measures.
To support the PMT, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be constituted at the provincial level for
policy advice and guidance. The PSC will be composed of senior representatives of government agencies
responsible for forestry, environment, agriculture, local government, and etc., and conservation NGOs and
specialist groups.
Process framework for community consultation and participation
Planning and implementation will proceed in a staggered fashion beginning with those communities that are
most adversely impacting the PA. The key steps that constitute the process framework for participation of
custodial communities in park management comprise:
1. Community orientation and mobilization: The project approach (role and composition of VCCs and
PMT, resource utilization mapping, strategies for sustainable PA resource management, mitigation and
beneficiary contributions) will be disseminated by members of the PMT to all the local communities known
or expected to be significantly dependent on utilization of resources in the PAs or buffer zones. In addition
to dissemination of the project approach, the orientation meetings should seek to identify the perceptions by
different stakeholders regarding the PAs and biodiversity conservation, and identify representatives of the
stakeholder groups dependent on PA resources for participation both in the subsequent resource mapping,
and as representatives in the VCC.
2.    Mapping of community resource utilization: The participatory resource mapping will constitute an
input to the planning of PA resource management and mitigation, and will establish the baseline for
subsequent impact monitoring. The mapping will draw on PRA techniques, site inspections etc. and will
furnish precise information on (a) the scale and seasonality of specific forms of resource utilization
(pasture, fuelwood and medicinal plant collection, fishing, cultivation, hunting), (b) the number, location
and circumstances of the stakeholders utilizing specific resources, and (c) customary rights and overlapping
or conflicting claims by different stakeholders. Under the project, households considered dependent on the
PAs will be those who directly impact the PA through resource utilization, and those who are themselves
impacted by the presence of the PA (e.g. loss of crops or livestock to wild animals).
During project preparation, specific types of potentially unsustainable resource utilization were identified in
the three PAs. In Machiara, the restrictions and mitigation measures will focus on (i) a participatory
fuelwood impact assessment and alleviation strategy, (ii) a management strategy for use of summer and
winter pastures, (iii) management of no-timber forest products, and (iv) management of illegal timber
extraction. For Chitral Gol, the issues are the same, whereas for Hingol, the issue is management of
fisheries within the estuarine and marine zone of the PA.
3. Formation of VCCs and selection of representatives for the PMT: Depending on the response from
stakeholder communities, formation of VCCs and their nomination of representatives for the PMT and
PCPU can take place during the participatory mapping of resource utilization, or later in the process of
interaction between the project and the custodial communities. However, both formation of VCCs and
nomination of stakeholder representatives should be completed before resource management strategies
involving restrictions in resource access and community microplans are developed.
The project would provide training in resource mapping, natural resource management evaluation, planning
and budgeting, construction supervision, maintaining minutes of meetings, and account keeping for the
stakeholder representatives in both the VCCs, PCPUs and the PMTs.
-46 -



4. Development of PA resource management strategies and mitigation measures: Meetings will be held
with the stakeholder communities to review the results of the resource utilization mapping landertaken as
the second step of this Process Framework, and to agree on its implications regarding resource management
strategies, mitigation measures, and community contributions to mitigation and development activities.
Selected activities should comply with the following requirements:
All project investments must be based on cost-sharing arrangements involving the local community
that is being targeted.
Preferably, a clear and transparent linkage must exist between biodiversity conservation and the
proposed investment, so that the village specific project agreements help "conserve biodiversity by
creating sufficient incentives for consensus which commits people to specific, measurable actions
that improve PA management and conservation"" (guidelines for the World Bantk Ecodevelopment
Project ).
Agreed management strategies for PA resources, measures to mitigate restrictions in resc,urce use,
community development activities and community contributions to such activities will be integrated in a
microplan, which will be formalized in a Memorandum of Understanding based on that used in UNDP's
pilot project. The MOU will be signed by the participating communities at the village or village cluster
level, the PA management authority, the involved VCCs, and facilitating NGO, if any. A special VCF
(Village Conservation Fund) will be established for each VCC for channeling all authorized investment
funds. This account will be owned and operated by the VCC under supervision by the PM4T. Working with
community representatives, the project will develop Terms of Reference for the VCF to serve a single
village or set of hamlets. The project will disburse funds against actual activities. Project management and
village organizations will convene periodic meetings (every 4-6 months) to review project progress and to
update the PA management and micro-plans over the life of the project. In addition, the project will ensure
that all VCFs are audited annually, and that annual plans are submitted to the Bank for review.
To be eligible for inclusion in the VCC microplan for funding under the project, activities should (as in the
World Bank assisted India: Ecodevelopment Project) comply with the following criteria:
Conserve biodiversity either directly or indirectly by creating sufficient incentives to commit local
people to specific, measurable actions that improve conservation (beneficiary communities should
be aware of the link between the proposed investment and its activities, and con3ervation of PA
resources);
Provide equitable share of benefits to and mitigate negative impacts on tribals, women and
poor disadvantaged groups who are currently most dependent on the PA;
Add supplemental resources in cases where alternative non-project sources of funding and
support are not readily available;
Be socially and institutionally feasible ensuring that associated activities are culturally acceptable
and that local institutional capacity is adequate to organize resource management, distribute
benefits from common resources, provide physical maintenance, keep accounts, meet contribution
requirements, and monitor the project's impact;
Be low cost and financially feasible, e.g., costs are within norns or approved by the project
manager, returns are sufficient to compensate for PA resources foregone, and, :For all investments
intended to produce cash revenue or benefits that can be monetized, market linlcages are adequate,
cash flow requirements are viable, and returns compare favorably with alternative investrnent
-47 -



options;
Activities with training, community organization and other inherent capacity building should also
receive high priority for funding;
Be technically feasible, e.g., inputs and technical advice are adequate; physical conditions are
suitable; activity is technically sound;
Be environmentally sustainable, and avoid detrimental environmental impacts such as overuse of
agrochemicals or detrimental construction activity;
Be selected and owned by local communities, as ensured by a budgetary constraint mechanism,
co-financing or contribution requirement, and a commitment by the community to bear recurrent
maintenance costs of any infrastructure component; and
Be consistent with the objectives of the PA Management Plan.
Lessons learned from other conservation/development projects has validated the importance of requiring
some form of cost sharing for investments intended to benefit local people, including extremely poor
households, since it builds commitment and ownership on the part of stakeholders and strengthens the
likelihood of sustainability. Therefore, the project should establish clear and transparent contribution
requirements. To this end, it is recommended that:
e   local people should contribute to the costs of regular village rnicroplan investments,
including commnunity-oriented activities, to be deposited in the specially constituted VCF;
e   there should be no upper limit to the amount a community can contribute and deposit in the
VCF;
-   the project should match village contributions up to a given amount per community, with
the upper limit to be decided at project start-up;
_   the total investment cost should be calculated as the sum of all resources, cash and
non-cash; the value of labor and other in-kind" contributions would be calculated on the
basis of local market value;
*   to build ownership and long-term sustainability, all village investmnents (from the project
and if feasible also from other sources) would flow through the VCF, thereby encouraging
the beneficiary community to seek co-financing and fund-leveraging through the provision
of loans for approved commnunity investments and other needs. Over time, this financing
management system can continuously build and sustain community fiscal resources.
To finalize these criteria, the project will meet with community committees and village leaders to discuss
enabling criteria and institutional mechanisms, and to set mutually acceptable criteria that are consistent
across each PA. It is important to ensure the community micro-plans are gender sensitive and include
benefits to and input from marginal subgroups. Special approaches will be required to ensure involvement
by women or to prevent special interests from dominating the micro-planning process. Communities will be
trained in micro-planning procedures, so that they can assume increasingly greater responsibilities as the
5-year project proceeds. However, given project budgetary constraints, the total microplan investment in
each village should be computed on the basis of a standard per household cost, which should not exceed
Rs.12,400 (US$250 in 1999 prices) over the 5-year project life.
The project will establish procedures to screen requested resource management or income-generating
microplan investments to ensure that they are technically feasible, likely to generate supplementary income,
- 48 -



and comply with biodiversity conservation goals. Decisions regarding the priority investments will be made
by mutual consent of the VCC and PMT, with the endorsement of the PMC. If required by budgetary or
implementation capacity constraints, proposed activities would be prioritized based on their expected
positive impact on biodiversity conservation and livelihood restoration related to restrictions in resource
access within the PAs. Examples of appropriate resource management and micro-enterprise activities
include: improved agricultural practices, minor irrigation and erosion protection works, processing of
agricultural products, medicinal and non-timber forest produce, energy conservation measures, and skills
development in non-farm enterprises such as cottage industries, bee keeping, sericulture and eco-tourism.
Some of these activities would require access to credit and establishment of market linkages.
5.    Monitoring and evaluation: A monitoring system will be designed to provide for zontinuous
learning and adjustment of approach, and will involve participatory monitoring based on self-defined
indicators (by community focus groups, VCCs, PMTs), input and output monitoring data from the PMT
and PMU, impact/outcome monitoring by an independent monitoring agency (for midterrm review and
ICR), and Bank supervision. A framework for monitoring will be developed before project implementation
begins, which will include description of the institutional arrangements and processes incorporating
participatory monitoring and learning systems, selection of indicators, sampling methods, interval and
intensity of sampling and mechanisms for feedback and project improvement. Three areas of significance
for monitoring the achievement of project objectives will be (i) the ecological aspects of field activities for
biodiversity protection and PA management, (ii) community participation in conservation, mitigation
planning and implementation, community compliance with resource use agreements, and the outcomes of
income generation activities, and (iii) legal and institutional frameworks impacting on project activities in
the three sites. Key indicators for monitoring the involvement of custodial communities il planning and
implementation are:
(a) VCC formation, functioning and sustainability (e.g. target population knowledge about the purpose
of VCCs; inclusiveness of VCCs; transparency in decision making and financial management;
mobilization of community contributions; poverty focus and equity in activity plans; maintenance of
assets created).
(b) Community involvement in planning and implementation of PA management plans (e.g. inputs to
resource utilization mapping; participation in decision making by VCCs and community representatives
in PMTs and PCPUs for planning of restrictions in resource use and mitigation measures; willingness
of communities to contribute towards costs of measures to mitigate reductions in resource access).
(c) Compliance with resource use agreements by communities (e.g. number of affected households
complying with or violating different types of restriction; role of VCCs community representatives in
PMTs in ensuring compliance; attitudes of community members utilizing resources covered by
restrictions; role of locally employed PA staff).
(d) Income generation outcomes (e.g. changes in the incomes of households affected by restrictions in
resource access; whether benefits from income generation accrue to those affected ty the restrictions in
resource access; and whether income generation altematives are culturally compatible and acceptable
to the affected communities).
(e) Efficacy of conflict resolution and grievance redress arrangements (e.g. type and number of
conflicts resolved or pending; processing time; type of grievance redress process applied).
SUBCOMPONENT 2: FORMULATION OF DETAILED PARK MANAGEMENTPL4NAND
STRATEGY
A management plan exists only for the Machiara National Park, but even this document is a draft that has
not yet been approved for implementation by the Wildlife Departnent. Thus, there is an urgent need for
- 49 -



management plans and strategies to guide decision making by field staff and fornalize park operations. To
this end, the project will strengthen park management through integrated activities leading to the
development and implementation of a 5-year detailed Management Plan and Strategy. Since a draft
management plan exists for Machiara, the entry point for project-related management support will be at the
updating stage, but other management planning actions such as training in park planning and management,
data gathering, field surveys, research studies and community-based socioeconomic assessments, and
base-map preparation will still be relevant and supported under the project.
Interim management priorities will be enacted to bridge the time gap until baseline studies have been
undertaken, management needs detailed and a comprehensive management plan prepared. The final
management plan will critically address key issues affecting biodiversity degradation, especially with
respect to globally threatened habitats, species and genomes, and detail the various reactive and proactive
remedial measures required to reverse current trends and better ensure optimal conditions for sustaining
each PA's special attributes.
Park management will concentrate strongly on actions that reduce negative impacts of local people on
biodiversity and provide alternatives for traditional resources such as summer grazing pastures and nearby
forested areas (like Machiara's Himalayan Moist Temperate Forest, which sustains breeding populations of
the western Tragopan pheasant). Therefore, an important objective will be to closely link participatory
social mobilization with the core park planning process, so that local participation and cooperation can be
broadened on a site-specific basis, within both core and buffer zones. Local participation in PA
management plan preparation is probably best promoted by ensuring that local representatives play a
substantive role in developing its mission statement, objectives and preferred outputs. In order to ensure
diverse opinions are adequately incorporated, project management should consider using an impartial
facilitator to help guide public meetings and other important working sessions involving plan formulation.
Regular progress meetings should be held that are open to all.
Another important PA planning activity involves rationalization of the PA boundaries, involving zonation
with respect to core, buffer and special use values; as far as possible, these need to be based on ecological
considerations that form the basis for holistic management directives. Where possible, the planning team
should seek to increase the effectiveness of the PA by extending the boundaries (especially into uninhabited
areas, if any exist), or more likely, through habitat and species management plan agreements with local
communities using the area or holding tenurial and resource harvesting rights. Such landscape-level
biodiversity conservation and ecosystem enrichment may represent a very real output and benefit of
well-planned co-management agreements with local people living outside of the PA. Toward this end,
critical PA issues and people-park conflict will have to be debated and win-win solutions solicited through
the sharing of PA by-products and employment opportunities among other strategies. This exercise will
also be contingent upon sufficient baseline knowledge, and would be greatly advanced by the preparation of
baseline ecosystem or habitat-type maps for each PA (see next sub-component). Baseline maps needs to
include other information, such as geomorphologic information, trail and access routes, village locations,
land-use, sensitive wildlife sites, degraded areas and so forth.
The park's management plan must carefully integrate community microplanning and micro-enterprise
initiatives with the PA's environmental awareness and outreach programs, visitor management, ongoing
social assessment, monitoring and research, and project management. PA management activities should
incorporate traditional ecological knowledge to the extent possible, by involving local people from the
earliest stage in planning to the finalization of identified interventions.
Data from baseline studies will be used to rationalize the optimal boundary for each PA with respect to
- 50 -



management and influence zones, including the demarcation of central core, satellite cores, buffer, tourism
and other use zones that are largely defined on administrative or legal bases. Adjustments to better ensure
inclusion of key ecological processes and critical sites will be made in light of established Land tenure rights
and the needs of the local communities with respect to their basic needs, as determined through
socioeconomic participatory means. Baseline ecological or community maps would be prepared for each
PA. In the case of wide-ranging species like the snow leopard, wolf and bear, efforts will be made to
cluster and link adjacent existing reserves through series of "natural" corridors, in which species-sensitive
management interventions are promoted (e.g., native prey species protection and enhancement, construction
of predator-proof nighttime enclosures for livestock, education of herders on improved herd. and range
management procedures).
Procedures need to be established for debating and fairly resolving critical PA issues that lie beyond the
capacity of the PA manager, VOs, or VCCs to resolve. The PMC or the LAC may represent options in
this regard; the latter could also play a role in generating funds for continued operations a:nd investments
that sustain local communities and biodiversity. Procedures will also be needed to coordinate and integrate
development activities proposed by other line agencies, projects and institutions. Enviromnental review
procedures will be required to vet the impact of local and regional development activities to protect against
detrimental land uses and development schemes from logging to mining and further human encroachment.
For example, the park manager could measure projected impacts against a list of criteria required for the
long-term maintenance of in situ biodiversity, such as potential for habitat fragmentation, cdisruption of
corridors and the displacement of people or growth-inducing capacity.
The plans drafted by the multidisciplinary project team, and aided where necessary by research-based
technical assistance, should be reviewed by qualified third parties and fully discussed at special planning
workshops attended by diverse stakeholders, from local villagers to peers from the park nLanagement
authority and scientific community. It is imperative that local language summaries of proposed
management actions be prepared and disseminated widely among local communities for review and
comment. Finally, the project must ensure that the local communities are fully involved bi ongoing
management plan monitoring and evaluation.
Park management is a strategic process requiring iterative planning and consultation with involved
stakeholders; as a minimum, management plans should be renewed every 4-5 years. Regional and
intemational park specialists could be invited to the final workshop convened by the federal coordinating
agency (MELGRD) to more widely share experiences and lessons leamed. The following sections of the
report details specific steps in the management planning process:
The first step in the preparation/updating management plans is the mobilization of the PMT, which will
consist of the Park Manager, Local Park Planner, Local Social Planner, with input from Intemational Park
Planner and Sociologist. This will be followed by a training workshop on park planning and management
(including the role of management plans, their formulation, review and periodic revision) in each park, led
by the international park specialist with input from senior park staff, drawing on relevant: case-examples
from the general region, and ensuring staff are provided with technical manuals, examples of management
plans and other relevant background materials.
Once trained, team members will hold a working session to detail the tasks for the work pl an required to
formulate the draft PA Management Plan (Initial Draft). This would include (a) reviewing and
documenting existing information (e.g., physical attributes; environmental profiles; project
preparation-phase socioeconomic profiles of park communities; relevant political, administrative and legal
elements; existing infrastructure, staffing and budgetary allocations, etc); (b) identifying potential sources
- 51 -



of additional information and all important remaining gaps in baseline information; (c) identifying relevant
existing or projected district-level or provincial development programs that may impact the PA directly or
indirectly; (d) listing preliminary park objectives and overall mission for local communities participatory
feedback to the team; (e) evaluating critical time line research activities and review Terms of References
(TORs) prior to contractual action or fieldwork to ensure key issues are addressed and appropriate methods
are being proposed; and (f) drafting a detailed list of specific activities detailing the next steps in the park
planning process, including time lines, assigned roles and responsibilities.
The Team will then undertake field surveys, research studies, and community-based socioeconomic
assessments in addition to preparing a park base-map under the supervision of the project manager
(ongoing process, most effort will occur during the first three years). Thereafter, technical and park staff
will review and analyze resulting data, dividing the PA into management zones based on different uses,
objectives, and environmental sensitivities, employing intemationally acceptable classification schemes.
Boundaries should follow natural ecological or topographic and socially functioning units to the extent
possible. This will be followed by the review and finalization of management objectives and targets based
on field studies and conmmunity feedback.
In consultation with all stakeholders, draft specific management programs and actions are drawn up for (a)
achieving enhanced protection and sustained management of the PA's natural resources; (b)
accommodating traditional and evolving human uses shown to be ecologically compatible and legally
consistent with the park's objectives and regulations (especially PAMP objectives targeting globally
important species and habitats); (c) promoting opportunities for broadening participation of local
communities in PA management; (d) controlling and managing the impact of regional development
activities; (e) promoting ongoing research and monitoring activities; (f) financial sustainability and revenue
generation; and (g) allowing smooth PA administration, by explicitly outlining the necessary operational,
manpower and financial resources required, including any needed revision of staff job descriptions and
responsibilities. Although, there is no standard style or format for the management plan document, the
draft management plan should provide national and regional background information, and describe the
environmental setting of the PA (e.g., relevant information covering the climate, landforms, hydrology
geology, soils, fauna, flora and ecological conditions, and the socioeconomic and historical context of the
park). It should summarize management considerations and issues, management programs and
prescriptions, and development programs, including community participation and involvement processes
used in formulating proposed actions. The document can achieve greatest clarity and succinctness if it
focuses primarily on key issues, relegating all details to appendices, supporting technical reports, and
unpublished data files.
A review of infrastructure material and staffing requirements is required to establish overall financial
implications and feasibility of implementing the proposed plan as is, enabling planners to make revisions
that better fit projected budgetary and staffing realities.
The draft management plan should be distributed for public and official review and comment, using
standard document format and content. A summary of the main issues and recommendations of the draft
plan will be prepared and distributed in the local language to PA residents. A Provincial-level workshop
and several local community meetings will be held to discuss, assess and revise the draft plan, and to build
support for PA management actions and strategies. The comments received will be incorporated into the
revised Management Plan, ensuring that it remains focused on the key issues and retains ecological, social,
economic and administrative appropriateness.
Formal Governmental approval and commitment to proceed will be then solicited, and efforts will continue
- 52 -



to be made to strengthen stakeholder support for plan implementation. Prompt action on thfe part of the
Government may well decide the plan's long-term effectiveness, so ensuring adequate staffling and fiscal
resources is vital. Failure to do so will significantly undermine community confidence in the PA
institutional structure, rendering the PA another "paper-tiger". The implementation of the Draft
Management Plan follows in collaboration with local communities and the private sector ftrough a series of
annual operational work plans, which are in essence abbreviated and short-term management action plans.
The implementation of the plan should be concurrently supported by a program to monitor implementation
progress and its resulting impact on the conservation of biodiversity on a periodic but systematic basis
(2.5-4.0 yr.), ensuring that pertinent and important recommendations and park operational and planning
refinements are included into forthcoming annual operational plans.
This will be followed by a process leading to the update of the Draft Management Plan with the release of
the final PAMP-supported Park Management Plan in year 5, employing such tools as public workshops
and meetings to draw attention to significant planning and implementation benchmarks, achievements, and
stakeholder commitments. It will provide for the long-term basis for the management of the park, including
the allocation of financial and manpower resources. The PA authority should revise management plans
periodically to ensure continued relevancy based on monitoring indicators, changing environmental or
political conditions, and as the local communities themselves evolve socially and economically toward their
desired condition. In general, Management Plans should anticipate necessary PA operationris some 5 years
into the future, with the PA's annual work plans incorporating necessary operational and management
updates between formal docunent revisions.
SUBCOMPONENT3: IMPROVEMENTOFPARKINFRASTRUCTURE
In order to improve the management of the PAs, the project will provide limited support for the
improvement of park infrastructure, including trails, bridges, trekking huts, camp sites with outdoor toilets,
cooking facilities, wildlife observation posts, small road maintenance works and repairs, water and waste
disposal facilities, signage and patrol huts. In addition, there will be a few staff buildings, and housing.
The type of infrastructure works will vary from PA to PA and will not include all of the above facilities in
each PA. Details of specific infrastructure activities are provided in the respective PA preject cost tables.
SUBCOMPONENT 4: IMPROVEMENT OF PARK OPERATIONS
Depletion of populations by hunting and poaching represent the primary threat to biodive rsity in all PAs.
Toward this end, the project will support the installation of surveillance measures and improved law
enforcement and improved monitoring of species, habitat conditions and disturbances.
As part of the surveillance and enforcement measure, the project will support the installation of regular
internal communications between park staff and Headquarters, such as a basic VHF/UHP- communications
system, to improve surveillance against intemal and extemal poaching. Ranger substaticns will be
established in remote areas and proper entrance gates installed along frequently traveling access roads to
monitor and help control such illegal activity. Honorary game wardens, drawn from the local community,
will be appointed and trained to patrol important areas, and the necessary community support solicited for
these efforts.
In order to enhance measures to combat poaching and disturbances to wildlife, the project will provide
support for assessing current threats to marsh crocodile, water-birds, marine turtles, Houbara bustard, wild
goat, leopard, chinkara, and other wildlife in Hingol; medicinal plant, musk deer, pheasanit and other
wildlife and timber poaching in Machiara; and medicinal plant, illegal hunting of markhor and other
wildlife in Chitral. It will support the review and upgrade of park boundary demarcation pillars, identify
- 53 -



roles and allocate responsibilities for undertaking patrols within the PA and adjoining buffer zones
(involving local communities) to manage and control unsustainable use and poaching. Staff, grazers,
community leaders and honorary wildlife wardens will be educated and trained in park laws and
regulations, and related patrolling, surveillance and reporting procedures. Staff and community leaders will
be provided with binoculars, cold-weather gear and other equipment to enable them to conduct regular
patrols and file patrol reports with the PA management.
Another important component of the park operations involves improving biodiversity monitoring. The
project will support the establishment of fixed-point photographic points, finalize methods and obtain
baseline photographs of each habitat type and representative sites within grazing pastures, fuelwood
collection areas, and sites of high biodiversity. This will encourage monitoring of habitat conditions using
simple, easily measurable indicators. Project staff and honorary wildlife wardens will be trained in
participatory monitoring procedures. In addition, the project will support periodic, but systematic seasonal
and annual census counts of key species and monitoring of selected habitat and environmental parameters
for assessing trends in population size and habitat quality. The international and local park planners will
assist the PA authorities in developing standard census methods and sampling procedures.
SUB COMPONENT 5: BASELINE RESOURCE INVENTORY, RESEARCH, HABIT4 T
IMPROVEMENT AND WILDLIFE ENRICHMENT
Baseline resource inventory: In order to achieve the project objectives, an understanding and appreciation
of the underlying ecological and human systems and processes operating within and around each PA is
required. In all three project PAs, there is a paucity of information on the ecological and socioeconomic
issues, making it necessary to mount a serious effort to generate the critical baseline information required
for PA management; therefore project financing and leveraged funds will be used to support focused
baseline inventories, research and special studies.
The strategic approach to research will form part of the planning exercise to be undertaken by each
Management Team. A research planning workshop will be held in each PA (shortly after project start-up)
to identify and review information gaps and to validate research needs identified during project preparation
(see below) Wildlife biologists, sociologists, NGOs, local community representatives, PA staff and TA
consultants will participate in this workshop.
To free PA management from responsibility for administering the research on a day-to-day basis, it is
recommended that each PA contract out their respective research and study components, if possible, to a
single, national competent university or research institution that may subcontract specific work items. This
institution will be selected competitively on its capability to conduct and coordinate the research, and given
adequate financial and administrative flexibility to contract, administer and subcontract the research funds
if needed. If this is not possible, the PA authorities will have to contract out individually for each research
study. It is expected that each park will need to fund between 1-3 long-term research studies and 3-5
short-term studies. The TA park planner will assist the PA authorities to refine and finalize TORs for the
research studies, evaluate research proposals and assist in coordinating the research effort. The successful
institutions will be required to prepare a detailed work plan with scheduling, methods, outputs, etc., for the
proposed research study; these should be reviewed and approved by the park manager with input from
competent peers prior to implementation.
All research should be conducted in accordance with PA regulations and objectives. Researchers will be
required to submit progress reports with original copies of their research findings to the PA manager. Any
voucher specimens made should include a duplicate set that will be housed with the concerned park for
future reference. All scientific collecting should be done in accordance to internationally acceptable
- 54 -



protocols. Researchers will be strongly urged to prepare and submit papers for peer review in technical
journals in order to widely disseminate the results of the park research program.
A list of potential institutions for contracting the research studies and surveys may include the Pakistan
Agriculture Council (Islamabad), Zoological Survey Department, National Agricultural Research Council,
Marine Fisheries Department (Karachi), Balochistan Fisheries Department, Punjab Wildlife Research
Institute (Faisalabad), Quaid-e-Azam University, Balochistan University (Quetta), Arid Zone Research
Institute, Punjab University of Agriculture, Sindh Jamshoro University, Karachi Universilty (Marine Center
of Excellence), WWF (Pakistan), IUCN (Pakistan), SAPRCO, Institute of Oceanography (Karachi),
Punjab University of Agriculture, Nature Conservancy, Birdlife International, etc.
Obtaining baseline information is a lengthy and costly process that is only possible with the collaboration
of other institutions, private organizations and individuals. The PA management agencies should,
therefore, seek to establish cooperative arrangements with research institutions and univeisities to support
this critical component of effective park management.
The project will support the preparation of a baseline habitat/land cover map for each PA (including
immediate surroundings, particularly contiguous wildlife habitats and ecosystems) using satellite or aerial
photo acquisition/interpretation and map preparation. These maps will provide the basis fbr monitoring
changes in subsequent years. Another research activity involves conducting baseline wildlife and habitat
inventories, with attributed information such as habitat association, breeding sites and seasons, food habits,
elevation and spatial distribution patterns, sources and extent of threats, and management entry points. In
addition, some areas of specific studies have been identified for each PA. A series of perrnanent transects
and plots will be established to permit regular monitoring of populations and biodiversity, using
internationally accepted procedures, and targeting landscape units, communities, species and populations of
greatest concern. These will attempt to monitor changes in number; species composition; increases or
decrease in the proportion of endemic, exotic and endangered species; proportion of critical habitat
protected; habitat fragmentation; sustainability of human use of core areas (where applicable); maintenance
of vegetative cover; important changes in successional status; and important life history parameters of key
or threatened species. Attempts will be made to estimate changes in food supply for key predators, based
on regular censuses of prey species and their habitat. Specific studies proposed under PAMlP are as
follows:
Chitral Gol National Park
Preparation of Baseline Habitat Maps (described above).
Baseline Wildlife and Habitat Inventories (described above).
Markhor population/natural history study: This will cover the study of herd structure, recruitment and
population dynamics, reproductive behavior, daily and seasonal movements, food habits ard foraging
behavior, predation, interactions with domestic stock and herders, use and importance of wvintering habitat
within CGNP, etc. This will also include a lead in developing standard survey techniques for park staff to
follow. Research effort will be intense within the park, but linked with less intensive regional management
effort to be undertaken during the development of a summer and winter pasture grazer management plan
and interventions under the Habitat Improvement and Wildlife Enrichment sub-component. The contracted
institution will provide a nationally recruited Mammalogist or Wildlife Ecologist (6 months/yr. for 3 years)
and a Botanist (3-4 months/yr. for 3 years) supported by 2 technicians (at 6 months/year). The Park
Manager and International Park Specialist will provide quality control functions.
- 55 -



Rangeland Management Study: To survey, map and classify representative summer and winter
Markhor/livestock pastures within CGNP and surrounds in order to establish current rangeland condition
and productivity (species composition, biomass production, erosion potential, trailing, etc.), so that
stocking rates can be based on scientifically valid information. Establish permanent enclosures (10 5x5m
fenced plots) to monitor rangeland trend. Help park planning team identify optimal stocking rates, herd
management, and, in close collaboration with grazers, to establish sustainable rotational or rest-deferred
grazing regimes with biologically sensitive indicators (e.g., plant species, phenology and vigor of growth)
for guiding grazing management practices in each pasture or set of pastures. This study will require a
nationally recruited Rangeland Ecologist Consultant (6 months/yr. for 2 years with 1 technician).
Hiniol National Park
Preparation of Baseline Vegetation Maps (described above).
Baseline Wildlife and Habitat Inventory (described above).
Estuarine/Marine Zone Fisheries StudY: Conduct a marine (offshore) fisheries study to gather baseline
information on fisheries harvest, including species composition, weight and age classes, fishing areas,
fishing methods, including catch effort, population trend, gross and net income, operating costs and other
socioeconomic determinants. Compare local indigenous fisheries with Karachi-based fishermen and
multinational trawler industry. Project future viability of enterprise and identify important management
actions and controls to prevent over-fishing. Also develop standard fish catch monitoring and inventory to
be undertaken by park rangers and local fishermen with support from project (fisheries biologist - 6-8
months/year for 3 years, with 2 technicians and including travel, sampling, weighing and data recording
equipment costs).
Inventory of Estuarine Habitats: Conduct a detailed inventory of on-site estuarine habitats, including
associated wildlife like water-birds, mugger crocodile, and aquatic invertebrate and fish species. Determine
the importance of Hingol River as a fish nursery, and map critical habitats. Identify key ecological
parameters for ensuring continued or enhanced wildlife populations.
Terrestrial Wildlife Surveys and Counts: Conduct wildlife surveys and counts of inland areas, with
emphasis on key species such as ibex, wild goat, urial, chinkara, Houbara bustard, etc. Gather information
on areas of concentration, general seasonal movements, key watering sites, threats, habitat utilization, and
other parameters of importance to effective management.
Machiara National Park
Preparation of Baseline Vegetation Maps (described above)
Baseline Wildlife and Habitat Inventory (described above)
Specialized Topics: A number of specialized topics for research/study in Machiara have been identified by
park staff and the IUCN/WWF Preparation Report and include the following: (i) black mushroom
harvesting management and cultivation feasibility study; (ii) musk deer breeding and habitat enhancement
study; (iii) protection and management of rare pheasant species; (iv) captive breeding of musk deer; and (v)
reforestation and forest management.
Rangeland Management Study: Survey, map and classify representative pastures (especially summer use
areas) within the national park and immediate surroundings in order to establish current rangeland
conditions and productivity (see additional research details under same topic in Chitral Gol National Park)
- 56 -



and develop strategy and management procedures for reducing grazing pressures and evenuLtally eliminating
it, as recommended in the WWF draft management plan.
Habitat Improvement
By reducing pressures on park habitats from livestock grazing, fuelwood collection and subsistence hunting
through community-park management agreements and improved patrolling and enforcement, the project
will go a long way toward lifting limiting factors that are keeping animal and plant populalions at low
levels. However, the project also allocates funding to support site-specific rehabilitation and enhancement
interventions aimed at improving and restoring degraded habitats, notably alpine pastures and mixed or dry
temperate forest in the case of Machiara and Chitral Gol national parks. Activities in Hingol will center
around protecting the Hingol River estuary and associated wetlands, which very likely provi de critical
spawning habitat for the area's rich fisheries, as well as inland springs and riparian habitats. Details of the
most appropriate habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment measures for degraded areas must await
site-specific baseline surveys and technical/cost feasibility assessments. It is likely that these will involve a
variety of techniques and interventions, including re-vegetation, soil erosion control, water conservation,
small-scale afforestation, implementation of temporary enclosures and rotational grazing regimes to
minimize negative impacts associated with livestock (especially goats), in situ breeding and the
re-introduction or augmentation of selected species (such as transferring marine turtle eggs from Karachi
Sandspit/Hawks Bay Turtle Sanctuary to Hingol in order to achieve substantially improve,1 survival rates).
All activities would be undertaken with substantial community involvement, from design tc implementation
and monitoring. Local residents or NGOs should be contracted to undertake such habitat rehabilitation
work. Habitat management interventions should be selected on the basis of cost-effectiveness and potential
for success. The extent of habitat interventions required will be dependent on the successfil. application of
the village investment program. The greater the project's success in reducing and controlling threats and
human-induced impacts to habitats and wildlife species, the less the investment required for direct habitat
improvement and management. However, some direct habitat management interventions might be
necessary. An indicative (preliminary) list of potential habitat improvement and wildlife en,ichment
measures is provided below, although this list should be made more exhaustive following the initial
research results.
Indicative List of Habitat Management Interventions for Chitral Gol National Park
*   Fuelwood Impact Assessment and Alleviation
o   Summer and Winter Pasture Grazer Management Interventions
*   Control of Illegal Timber Extraction
*   Implementation of Reciprocal Commitments to Conservation by Local Communities (including
Rumboor and Awrith Gol valleys) to enhance regional landscape integrity.
*   Regional Protection and Management of Markhor
*   Livestock Depredation Management Strategy
*  Non-Timber Forest Product Management
Indicative List of Habitat Management Interventions for Hingol National Park
*   Re-introduction of Olive Ridley and Green Turtles to Hingol
*   Introduction of Turtle Exclusionary Devices to Trawlers
*   Construction of Inexpensive Raptor Perches
*   Establishment of Operational Procedures for Sewage Disposal at Aghor Station and Mooring Sites
*   Establishment of Protection and Management of Key Wildlife Breeding, Feeding anid Escape Sites
*   Implementation of Participatory Livestock Grazing Plan
- 57 -



Indicative List of Habitat Management Interventions for Machiara National Park
* Fuelwood Impact and Alleviation Program
* Summer Grazing Management Plan
* Erosion Control Measures
* Reduction of Demand for Timber
*   Control and Management of Non Timber Forest Products collection
*   Habitat and Species-specific Improvement Measures (Protection of Taxus wallachiana)
* Implementation of Reciprocal Agreements to Manage External Threats and Dependencies
* Medicinal Plant Management Plan
*   Control and Management of Commercial Logging and Marble Extraction
SUBCOMPONENT 6: PUBLIC ENVIRONMENTAL A WARENESS AND OUTREACH
Biodiversity conservation can only be sustained if the will exists at all levels of society to act in a concerted
and organized manner to ensure environmentally sensitive resource use and management. The project will
therefore implement an awareness campaign targeted at politicians, leaders of industry, foreign hunters,
military, the Pakistan Coast Guard, local schools and communities. Nearby urban centers also represent
important elements in securing public support, as exemplified by the City of Karachi (the source of many
hunters and fishermen who visit Hingol whether for legitimate or illegal purposes). Environmental
awareness and outreach programs need to be very site-specific, so that the activities developed highlight the
special significance of the particular PA, its role in conserving global biodiversity and the importance of
community-based management and conservation in achieving both short-term and long-term objectives and
goals.
The survival of Pakistan's PAs depends heavily on the attitudes of local people, and the public and political
support for conservation at local, provincial, national and international levels. An inherently important part
of the PA manager's responsibility will be to justify the existence of the park and to report the benefits
afforded to various stakeholders. Education of visitors (foreign and domestic tourists) is also important to
minimize negative impacts to the biota and natural systems and to promote sound "code of conduct". Each
PA would design its own environmental education and awareness strategy and plan. This would include
the identification of different issues and target groups, and the solicitation of linkages with other awareness
programs, education NGOs, universities, and schools. The project will provide the institutional,
informational, research, training, funancial and organizational needs for
education outreach design and implementation. Alliances with existing programs such as WWF-Pakistan's
education program could establish linkages with supportive urban audiences. Innovative tools should be
used in disseminating information, including street theater, puppetry and folk stories in addition to
traditional means such as mass media newspaper, radio and television communication campaigns. Special
attempts must be made to involve park or buffer zone residents, especially children, in such environmental
awareness programs.
Basic visitor informnation and interpretation services will be provided, involving local residents to the extent
possible. A properly designed PA interpretation program would serve to awaken public awareness of the
park's purpose and policies and develop a concern for its protection and long-term nurturing. Interpretive
facilities will be constructed at Machiara and Chitral Gol National Parks; remoteness, poor access and low
visitation to Hingol does not appear to justify such a facility during the life of this project. The
interpretative facilities will include appropriately designed program/exhibits depicting the geophysical
origin of the environment that the PA is located in, the range of environmental niches, diversity of
life-forms that have evolved in this environment and the relationship of human beings to these resources
The design of the interpretation program will be simple, low-cost, interactive and relevant to the local
- 58 -



situation. The environmental awareness program will focus on establishment of nature trails, summer
camps, schools' nature camps and programs, teacher-training programs, special activity design, education
extension programs in schools, villages and public areas, mass communication programs, production of
guides, radio and television programs, etc. During the latter part of the project period, a study will be
funded to assess the feasibility of establishment of Conservation Field Schools (a formal education and
training facility and program) in each PA.
Project Component 2 - US$2.13 million
SUSTAINABILITY OF PARK MANAGEMENT
In order to ensure long-term sustainability beyond the life of this GEF grant, the project will promote
public/private cooperation in the achievement of long-term biodiversity conservation by assisting with
technical assistance and limited cost-sharing arrangements, private sector activities, income-generation
activities (e.g., improved agricultural output activities, ecotourism, and user entrance fees) and nonprofit
fund-raising activities. Given the limited tourist visitation levels for the foreseeable future, the
establishment of a nonprofit entity known as the Park Association with a trust fund or endkwment during
the third year of project implementation is considered a key element of project sustainability.
Park Association and Endowment: The Project will finance the establishment of a Park Association, which
shall administer the proceeds of an endowment to support initially the sustainability of conservation efforts
within the Project's three protected areas. If circumstances allow over time, a Park Association's
assistance may extend to other areas as well. The initial size of the endowment shall be $L[S2 million in
total for the Project.
In the interests of avoiding unnecessary duplication of staff and of promoting cost efficiercy, there should
be one Park Association that will administer the proceeds, separated into three accounts - one per PA - of
an endowment to support the sustainability of conservation efforts in the three PAs. A Park Association
Liaison Office may be opened in each of the provinces and AJK to ensure strong local cornmunication with
the Park Association and instill local accountability.
Proceeds from the endowment shall help finance park operations, including the incremental operating and
maintenance costs of surveillance and protection introduced by the project in the protected areas.
Incremental operating costs include stipends for game watchers recruited from local communities. Interest
from the endowment could also be used by the Park Association to finance the purchase of equipment and
other goods used for the park operations. Such items would be procured by the Park Association and lent
to the parks for the use of field staff. Under the project this working relationship with provincial wildlife
departments will be established in the first two to three years of the implementation with the purchase of
some replacement equipment by the Park Association. Similarly, the equipment procured for the park
management TA teams, including all vehicles, shall be the property of the Park Association, which will be
authorized, upon the completion of the teams' contracts, to loan the equipment for periods of continued use
by field staff. Additionally, funds would be dispensed for park-specific activities that meet designated
guidelines, such as community-based micro-enterprise and resource management agreeme:ats,
action-oriented research, and habitat improvement activities.
The Park Association shall consist of a small staff under the supervision of a broadly elected, volunteer
Board of Directors of impeccable reputations with local, regional and international representation from
private (civic), public (government) and business sectors. The Board will develop in collaboration with its
initial principal donors an internationally acceptable mission, objectives, bylaws and operating procedures.
The Park Association mounts its own special fund-raising campaigns by soliciting donations from private
individuals, internationally based foundations and corporate sponsorships to supplement the start-up
endowment.
- 59 -



In the future, assuming sufficient increases in the size of the endowment, the Park Association can consider
providing support to activities in other protected areas within Pakistan.
Proiect Inputs for the Establishment of the Park Association and Endowment: The Park Association shall
be in place by the start of the third year of implementation (September 30, 2003, provided that the project
becomes effective in the first quarter of the 2002 fiscal year; the fiscal year in Pakistan begins on 1 July).
To prepare for the launch of the Park Association, the Project will finance a study to finalize an
institutional road map for its constitution, draft operational procedures, and fonnulate personnel
guidelines.
The Federal Government shall implement the procurement of this study, which shall begin in the second
half of the first project year. Inputs for the study include the international recruitment of a trust fund
specialist, logistical support and support for report production. This consultants will be recruited following
the Bank's Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997, and using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants Services, June 1995. Consultants
will be hired through normal quality and cost-based Bank procedures.
At the end of this study, the consultant will have produced the following principal outputs:
* a draft Endowment Instrument;
3 identification of the modality by which the Trustee to the endowment (the Park Association) will
receive legal title to the GEF grant;
3 an appropriate design for the Board of Directors;
3 a proposal with options for asset management arrangements, including arrangements for the local
flow of funds;
3   the endowment administration manual including eligibility criteria for the financing of park
investments and operating costs, and of support for park-related community development;
9  an initial financial management plan, including detailed admninistrative budgets for the Park
Association; and
* an initial income distribution plan;
* the consultant shall review the design and performance of relevant existing trusts in Pakistan, such
as the NRSP.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.36 million
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
The project will support a strong training program to build capacity within the wildlife wings or
departments for improved park management. Elements of the training program range from "on-the-job"
training facilitated by skilled international specialists to special workshops and study tours covering a range
of topics from legal and policy reform to tourism management and preparation of management plans. The
Smithsonian Institution will be requested to conduct a special 5-7 week training course in Conservation
Biology and Wildlife Management, based on the many workshops it has held in the region. The project
also supports diploma and certificate courses as well as Master's degree courses in Pakistan (2 slots per
PA) and overseas (one slot).
Additional training will be provided to PA staff and local community "wildlife watchers" in such topics as
microplanning and participatory biodiversity monitoring among other topics.
Project Component 4 - US$0.45 million
- 60 -



PROJECT COORDINATION 'AND MONITORING
Although the field-level execution of the project will be the responsibility of the respective Provincial
Governments through their wildlife or forestry departments, some level of coordination will be necessary at
the federal level. The most important aspect of this coordination role will be in the facilitation of the
development of policy and legislation relating to protected areas and ensuring that standardized systems are
established at each level. The project will provide support for a full-time Facilitator and short-term
national legal specialist to provide guidance and advise on wildlife policy and legal reforni. In addition,
technical assistance services will be available for the design of the Park Association Fund and to conduct a
Tourism Feasibility Study and Strategy for the three parks.
The office of the Project Facilitator shall organize in-country workshops for sharing lessons learned during
project planning and implementation, study tours and arrange a 6-8 week in-country training workshop on
Wildlife Survey and Assessment Methods. A internationally reputable external expert institution such as
the Smithsonian Institution shall be contracted to conduct the Wildlife Survey and Assessment workshop.
Park staff and conservation NGO representatives from throughout the country will be invited to participate
in the workshop.
Legal and Policv Reform Study: The Project will provide funds for MELGRD to review F ederal and
Provincial Protected Areas management policy and law and facilitate reforms as recommended by the
Biodiversity Action Plan. This study should promote the design and drafting for legislation for enabling
community participation in protected areas establishment, management, and monitoring and evaluation, and
assist in developing national and provincial procedures for identifying gaps in current protected areas
coverage.
Tourism Development and Marketing Study: Research support is required to evaluate existing and potential
ecotourism opportunities in and near each PA (camping, day-hiking and trekking, wildlife viewing, river
rafting, mountaineering, cultural tours, horse-riding, etc.) to develop ecologically sound ard socially
responsible tourism components for inclusion in the PA management plan, and to train coramunity
committees and selected villagers in small-scale trekking and wildlife-viewing ecotourism, among other
options. Identify and rank potential activities and develop a "code of conduct" for PA visitors. Develop
criteria for ensuring equitable revenue distribution to local communities and make recommendations on
user-fee collection opportunities and revenue-generating systems. Include study tour to Nepal for local
NGO (outputs: draft tourism management plan, micro-enterprise business plans, visitor code of conduct,
marketing linkages with Pakistani and international trekking companies). This study will require an
international ecotourism specialist (2 months in CGNP only, part of single procurement) and local
marketing specialist (3 months) This study is to be contracted as part of the Federal MELGRD
component.
In addition, project resources will be available for contracting an independent review and impact
monitoring of the project by a reputed national institution. The objective of this exercise is to assess if
project activities are meeting key objectives, namely conservation of biodiversity. The monitoring will
provide a continuous review of the project. It will entail the design and development of a conceptual
framework for implementation of the monitoring program. Such a framework will include identification of
parameters that clearly reflect the effectiveness of project development objectives and inco:rporate selected
indicators, rationale and criteria for selection of the indicators, sampling methods, interval and intensity of
sampling, preliminary analytical framework, mechanisms for feedback and project adjustment, and
measures to establish flexibility in design. Monitoring will be based on a baseline to be developed through
the contract and regular monitoring (on an agreed interval) during the project. The Guidelines for
- 61 -



Monitoring and Evaluation of GEF Biodiversity Projects (1992 or more recent edition) will be followed.
In particular, the project will support all steps required for the monitoring of three levels of concern for the
success of the proposed project: (i) M&E of biological aspects of field activities for biodiversity protection
and protected area management; (ii) M&E of socioeconomic conditions and community participation; and
(iii) M&E of legal and institutional frameworks impacting on project activities.
PARK ASSOCIATION AND ENDOWMENT FUND
Introduction
1. The Project will finance the establishtnent of a not-for-profit Park Association, which shall administer
the proceeds of an endowment to support the sustainability of conservation efforts, in the first instance,
within the Project's three protected areas. The initial size of the endowment shall be US$2 million.
2. Proceeds from the endowment shall help finance park operations, including the incremental operating
and maintenance costs of surveillance and protection introduced by the project in the protected areas.
Incremental operating costs include stipends for game watchers recruited from local communities.
Interest from the endowment could also be used by the Park Association to finance the purchase of
equipment and other goods used for the park operations. Such items would be procured by the Park
Association and lent to the parks for the use of field staff. Under the project this working relationship
with provincial wildlife departments will be established in the first two to three years of the
implementation with the purchase of some replacement equipment by the Park Association. Similarly,
the equipment procured for the park management TA teams, including all vehicles, shall be the
property of the Park Association, which will be authorized, upon the completion of the teams'
contracts, to loan the equipment for periods of continued use by field staff. Additionally, funds would
be dispensed for park-specific activities that meet designated guidelines, such as community-based
micro-enterprise and resource management agreements, action-oriented research, and habitat
improvement activities.
3. The Park Association shall consist of a small staff under the supervision of a broadly elected, volunteer
Board of Directors of impeccable reputations with local, regional and international representation from
private (civic), public (government) and business sectors. The Board will develop in collaboration with
its initial principal donors an internationally acceptable mission, objectives, bylaws and operating
procedures.
4. The Park Association mounts its own special fund-raising campaigns by soliciting donations from
private individuals, internationally based foundations and corporate sponsorships to supplement the
start-up endowment.
5. In the future, assuming sufficient increases in the size of the endowment, the Park Association can
consider providing support to activities in other protected areas within Pakistan.
Project Inputs for the Establishment of the Park Association and Endowment
1. The Park Association shall be in place by the start of the third year of implementation (September 30,
2003). To prepare for the launch of the Park Association, the Project will finance technical assistance
to prepare an institutional road map for its constitution, draft operational procedures, and formulate
personnel guidelines.
2. The Federal Government shall implement the procurement of this study, which shall begin in the second
half of the first project year. Inputs for the study include the international recruitment of a trust fund
specialist, logistical support and support for report production. These consultants will be recruited
- 62 -



following the Bank's Guidelines as specified in Annex 6.
3. At the end of this study, the consultant will have produced the following principal outputs:
*  a draft Endowment Instrument;
*  identification of the modality by which the Trustee to the endowment (the Park Association) will
receive legal title to the GEF grant;
*  an appropriate design for the Board of Directors;
*   a proposal with options for asset management arrangements, including arrangements for the local
flow of funds;
*  the endowment administration manual including eligibility criteria for the financing of park
investments and operating costs, and of support for park-related community development;
*  an initial financial management plan, including detailed administrative budgets for the Park
Association; and
*  an initial income distribution plan;
*  the consultant shall review the design and performance of relevant existing trusts in Pakistan, such
as the NRSP.
- 63 -



Annex 2a: Social Analysis and Participatory Approach
Introduction:
Social interactions and their impacts: Assessing people-park interaction has been a key aspects of project
preparation. The project realizes that this interaction must be managed to increase or encourage the
beneficial effects of human activities and mitigate, reduce, and where possible, eliminate human uses
directly related to loss of biodiversity and degradation of the resource base. The project will assess in detail
the nature of people-park interaction and with local participation chalk out and implement a strategy for PA
management and biodiversity conservation tailored to the specific needs of each PA.
Background research during preparation:
Project preparation has included a preliminary social assessment. Although this has been limited at the
preparation stage partly due to weather conditions and limited time available for preparation, it has
provided key data on the social fabric of communities living in and around the PA sites, their impact on the
PA and the likely effects of the project on their lives. This assessment has included a stakeholder analysis,
structured interviews, observed interactions and review of published sources. Based on the data gathered
during this phase, this document outlines the major stakeholder groups, the features of communities living
in and around PAs, the nature of people-park interactions and the effects of the projects on local
communities.
Stakeholders:
People resident in the Parks: Although there are no villages inside Machiara and Chitral Gol National
Parks, Hingol has about 500 households resident inside the Park boundaries. More than 50% of the total
population in Hingol is concentrated in Kund Malir, which is contiguous with the Hingol estuary. Since
there is no apparent in-migration into the community, these people have a long history of residence inside
the PA. There are also cultural sites within Hingol with an established tradition such as a Hindu shrine at
Hinglach, which attracts a large number of pilgrims from other parts of Sindh, Balochistan and from
abroad. These residents use the park resources for their daily needs. In areas where the communities are
densely concentrated, such as in Kund Malir, intensive use of the PA is evident such as through fishing in
and around the estuary of Hingol River. Communities around Machiara also have summer homes inside
the Park where they reside for part of the year primarily to avail the pasture and grazing areas.
Communities resident in buffer zones and other satellite communities: The communities using
resources inside Chitral Gol and Machiara are resident primarily in the buffer zones. In Machiara the
dependent communities consist of 28 villages scattered across three Union Councils - Machiara and Bherri
with approximately 1,000 households each and Sarli Sacha with approximately 1,200 households. In
Chitral Gol the communities in buffer zones consist of about 1,900 households scattered among 12 villages
situated south of the Park boundary. Although not resident inside the Park, these conimunities interact
closely with the Parks and in some cases make intensive use of the resources including inside the Park core.
Their use of PAs is based on customary rights - in the case of Chitral Gol some of these rights have
predated the inclusion of Chitral State in Pakistan and have been awarded by the ex-rulers or Mehtars of
Chitral. They are primarily dependent on the PA for grazing, fuelwood collection, hunting, collection of
non-timber forest products (NTFPs) and water.
Other key satellite communities include indigenous people living near Chitral Gol. Although they are settled
-64 -



in three villages at a distance of around 20 km from the Park, they are a major source of touirist attraction.
They may also have traditional rights to the PA that need to be explored fully.
Governmental agencies: The key governmental agencies continue to be the Forest and Wildlife
Departments in AJK, NWFP and Balochistan. Other government departments or subsidiaries are also
important stakeholders such as the Azad Kashmir Logging and Sawmill Corporation (AKLASC) and other
agencies with interests in hydropower generation, fisheries, tourism and mining. Hingol is also a Ranger
base, although the presence of the Rangers does not bring them into direct conflict with communities. The
general approach of governmental agencies in these areas is policed enforcement of PA rules. Enforcement
agencies patrol the sites and are responsible for dealing with violations that bring them in conflict with the
local communities who claim rights to grazing, NTFPs and fuelwood collection. This conilict was evident
during dialogue with both parties, especially in Chitral Gol. Governmental agencies compiained that they
had inadequate resources for managing the parks amicably and showed lack of awareness of the rights and
needs of local users to access the parks while villagers complained that staff were not consistent in applying
rules to resource users.
Local sardars or tribal leaders/landowners: These have traditional influence in the region, either because
of their social position or due to land ownership. In Chitral, for example, the ex-Mehtar claims land rights
to areas within the Chitral Valley. In Hingol, the tribal leaders are a powerful influence and a "sardari"
system is in place whereby the tribal leader and landowner is vested with social authority in case of
disputes such as over land rights and access to resources.
Hunters: Pressure on biodiversity is intensified by hunting not only by local people but also foreign
tourists. While hunting is restricted to subsistence by local communities, some species are targeted by
foreign visitors. The Houbara Bustard, which is threatened due to hunting by foreign visitors, is a case in
point.
Non-governmental organizations: Several NGOs are active in and around the project sites. NGOs have
been extremely active in Chitral Valley, where Chitral Gol is situated. Of those operating at relatively large
scale, the Aga Khan Rural Support Scheme (AKRSP) has been the most successful with a large number of
beneficiaries covering the largest number of local villages. Despite AKRSP's success, it has been unable to
target the 12 villages that will be the focus of this project. Opposition from local religious leaders was cited
by the AKRSP as the main cause for their inactivity in the area. However, it was also evident from
discussions that such sentiment is on the decline and several respondents expressed their wish to work with
AKRSP. The idea of this project collaborating with AKRSP cannot be ruled out as it is evident that the
project will benefit from AKRSP's strength in rural credit and village organization. A WAT-supported
project on migratory birds has also been mobilizing local support to disseminate information on birds and
their conservation. Other programs such as the Chitral Area Development Program and ErLvironmental
Rehabilitation Program provide assistance for social sector services, infrastructure development and
natural resource management. Two major CBOs, Rehabilitation and Social Committee and Conservation
Committee, are also active in the area and have been enthusiastic about the project. Chitral, therefore,
presents a wide array of community development and NGO activity that can support the pioject's initiative.
NGO and CBO activities around Machiara are restricted to the National Rural Support Scheme for AJK
and Neelum-Jhelum Valley Community Development Project. These are broad-based regionial programs
that are active in social sector services, economic uplift and natural resource management. Fingol, by
contrast, does not presents a wide range of NGO activity or CBO organization. The only major
development program active in the region is the Balochistan Rural Support Program, which targets social
- 65 -



sector services, physical infrastructure development and natural resource management. The wide
disparities in the activities of NGOs at each site acts as an indication of the social organization that the
project can use to its advantage. In Chitral and Machiara, local NGOs can act as a vehicle for support and
social mobilization may be coordinated on the structure of existing efforts. In Hingol, the project will face
the challenge of pacing activities at a level that is socially acceptable and sensitive to the absorptive
capacity of the local communities.
Characteristics of Local Communities:
Ethnic diversity: Conmmunities living in and around the three sites display ethnic heterogeneity in some
places. Chitral Gol is a particular example since it has three distinct communities living in the periphery of
the park - Pathans, Chitralis and the Kalash. Each has a varying pattem of resource use (dependent on
dominant employment in the ethnic group) and rights and access to resources. The Chitralis, for example,
are the original settlers of the region and also the dominant ethnic group who are primarily grazers and
farmers. Their dependence on the park's resources is based on their access rights granted under the
Mehtars - the ex-rulers of the Chitral Valley. Three Chitrali villages - Dangeri khandeh (38 households),
Shamirandeh (120 households) and Balach (120 households) - have relatively large herds of goats and
graze the park intensively. By contrast, the Pathans are relatively new settlers in the valley and do not have
established rights to resource use. They are also primarily small entrepreneurs and by virtue of having
better access to education are employed in various professions. Their dependence on the park is mainly for
fuelwood. Where they are dependent on the park, their rights are characterized by the length of time they
have been settled in the region. Villages established during the Mehtar's rule and by his permission
(Rahankot and Shaldane) have relatively better claim to resource use than newer ones such as Chewdak,
which are deemed to have weak claim to resource use even by the local administration. The Kalash are
indigenous people with a distinct religion, culture and ethnic background. Although not primarily dependent
on the park, they run the likelihood of being excluded from community organization under the project
unless specific efforts are made to encourage their participation. This ethnic diversity is likely to result in
varying access to resource use and may lead to conflicts on access rights. In Machiara and Hingol, the
ethnic diversity is not divisive and is unlikely to be a factor in resource use.
Women: Although primary collectors of NTFPs, fuelwood and water from the Pas, women are generally
also the most marginalized in terms of decision making in the management of the resources. In addition, in
villages around Machiara, women are also the primary decision makers due to significant male
out-migration for employment. However, cultural and tribal norms still dictate women's mobility in the
chosen sites and the extent that they are involved in the decision-making process. Other factors such as
education also play a role in female participation.
Among the chosen sites, the social conditions of communities around Machiara support an expectation for
a relatively high participation of women in project activities. Female literacy around Machiara is relatively
high (247%) in villages around the project site compared with Chitral Gol and especially Hingol where the
female literacy rate is almost zero. In Chitral, female literacy is high among the Pathans, while in Hingol
low literacy rates, strict cultural norms and tribal customs inhibit the mobility and participation of women.
Their participation will, therefore, be a challenging process requiring input from sociologists/community
development specialists who are famniliar with tribal societies and female participation under similar
conditions.
Land ownership: Land ownership rights play an important role in shaping access to resources and may be
a source of dispute in communities. In Chitral Gol, the ex-Mehtar's claim for land ownership over the area
is a potential source of hindrance for the smooth implementation of project activities. Although the
- 66 -



Government claims that the Mehtar has been compensated for the land acquired, a legal decision on the
dispute is still pending. In addition, local communities have placed a legal claim for access rights to Chitral
Gol. These competing claims for land can pose a potential threat to resource sharing and will need to be
evaluated and discussed in detail with local communities to reach agreements on resource use. Other
potential land disputes stem from lack of clarity over land ownership. In Hingol, grazing rights are less
formalized since the pastoral community does not have legal jurisdiction over the land they use for grazing;
the rights to the property rest with the Government. Land holdings are generally not large in the villages
around project sites.
Dependence on resources: The dependence of communities on resources is clear from Table A. In
Machiara, this dependence is mainly due to grazing, timber and fuelwood needs. In Chitral Gol dependency
on grazing is not high for the communities as a whole but some villages near the periphery make intense use
of the park for grazing. Other dependencies are related to fuelwood needs and collection of NTFPs such as
medicinal plants. In Hingol, where opportunities for other forms of employment are low, communities are
highly dependent on the park especially for fishing around the estuary. Lack of electricity and access to
other forms of fuel combined with high poverty in villages in Hingol lead to high dependence on fuelwood.
A large number of pastoralists in Hingol also rely heavily on grazing. The threats faced by human use of
the resources inside parks is a direct correlation of their socioeconomic conditions, which can also be
viewed as opportunities in disguise for resource conservation. By providing alternative fonms of livelihood
to people whose means of livelihood are closely dependent on the park's resources (cottage industry,
sericulture, weaving and other small enterprises), the project will address the legitimate needs of the people
by reducing their dependence on natural resources. Other means of reducing dependence on the Park's
resources will include alternative means for meeting daily needs such as community wood-lots for fuel, stall
feeding of animals and developing other sources of fodder. These arrangements will need to target not just
people who use resources from within the park but also those who are affected by the paik's resources
(e.g., grazers who lose their goats due to predation by other animals in the park). A collaborative
framework will be used for mapping this dependence, outlining the needs of the communities and means for
satisfying these in lieu of greater restrictions on use of parks resources.
Project's Potential Effects on Local Communities:
Introduction: The project does not plan to relocate any people from within the park or its buffer zone. The
disruptive effects on the communities due to relocation or resettlement, therefore, will not be an outcome of
this project. However, the project will seek to alter some uses of the park and this is likely to effect the
socioeconomic pattern of communities. Some of these effects are outlined below.
Beneficial Effects:
Income generation: The project's emphasis on decreasing people's dependence on the park for livelihood
activities will result in alternative and possibly higher forms of income for communities. The possibility of
increased tourism is also likely to result in increased incomes due to the development of small enterprises.
Skills upgrading and micro-credit will enable communities to supplement their income from activities that
are not related to resource degradation. This will also reduce the seasonal irregularity of income that parts
of communities (e.g., fisherfolk in Hingol experience, who are not allowed to fish from May to August due
to government restrictions and farmers in Chitral).
Poverty: Since the poor make the most intensive use of natural resources due to lack of other
opportunities, the project will specifically benefit them by decreasing their dependence on natural resources,
skills upgrading and provision of micro-credit. The poor are also the worst hit by seasonal[ irregularity of
- 67 -



income, which an altemative livelihood strategy is expected to address. Female-headed households, which
are also often the poorest, will benefit from the project's income generation activities.
Resource rights: Through a collaborative framework of agreement, the project will also clarify resource
use rights and limits according to established access and use rights, needs assessment and traditional
practices. This will allow communities to gain secure access to rights and limit the sidelining of legitimate
rights. Further, the formalizing of these rights into agreements with the Project Management Team and
governmental agencies will reduce the source of conflict and confusion faced at present due to curbs on
resource use within parks.
Empowerment: The project will also empower communities to organize themselves into VOs that can
serve as a means of wider integration of social and economic uplift with natural resource conservation. The
possibility that some of these organizations can also be used by other CBOs and NGOs for rural
development and social mobilization cannot be ruled out. This will also allow communities to have a stake
in conserving their natural resources and raise their role in managing parks vis-a-vis govermnental
agencies.
Negative effects:
Conflicts: As noted above, the ethnic diversity of communities and varying claims to resource use are likely
to result in increased conflict. This is particularly a factor around Chitral Gol, where resource-use rights
are guided by ethnicity. The project aims to use existing structures like tribal jirgas and other mechanisms
for conflict resolution. Further, the project's detailed social assessment and comnmunity participation
exercises will assess and anticipate sources of conflict to ensure that disputes do not acquire serious
dimensions.
Tourism: Although tourism is an essential part of the long-term financial sustainability of the parks, the
undesirable effects of tourism (pollution, eroding of the cultural base, commercialization of natural
resources) cannot be ruled out. The project will work closely with governmental agencies and local
communities to address the undesirable effects of tourism.
Time: Altemative income-generating strategies and other changes in resource use are also likely to result in
greater time spent on activities than at present (e.g., re-mapping of areas from where fuelwood collection
can take place or establishment of community wood-lots may lead to an increase in the time spent traveling
to and from home). Since women are largely involved in water and fuelwood collection, this could translate
into greater demands on their time. In the short term at least, income-generating exercises are also likely to
take time before their full potential can be realized by communities. These factors are likely to affect how
the communities perceive the effects of the project. Families are expected to react to the demand for
increased labor by changing labor inputs within the households, possibly by increasing the number of
family members for gainful employment. Once income from alternative sources is more established, labor
inputs required are expected to recede.
Community needs and demands: Community needs and demands may increase over the project's life and
the project may not be able to meet these within the resources available. From the outset, the project will
spell out the obligations of the community, such as the amount of contribution to the VCF, so that the roles
of various parties and the scope of the project are clear. In addition, further resources from the Park
Association are expected to supplement the resources available to continue to support community
development activities in relation to biodiversity conservation.
- 68 -



Table A (i) Showing Livelihood Dependencies by Village in Chitral Gol National Park
Name of Village         High               Medium             Low Dependency
Dependency        Dependency
Zargarandeh (80)                                              G,F
Jangbazaar (130)                                              G,F
Shaldane (39)                                                 G,F
Goldoor (120)                                                 G,F
Rehankot (200)                                                G,F
Noghor (50)                                                   G,F
Chewdok (260)                              F                  G
Khurkashandeh (120)                        F,G
Tingshen (50)                              F,G
Mughlandeh (120)                           F,G
Dangari-khandeh (38)                       F,G
Balach (120)                               F,G
Shahmirandeh (120)                         F,G
Miscellaneous (12)*     G                  F                  Number of households indicated in parenthesis
* Twelve households of Dangari-khandeh, Mughlandeh and Balach (estimated 100+ livestock)
G - Grazing pressure
F - Fuelwood pressure (a total of about 450 households supplement energy needs from the park)
Table A (ii) Showing Livelihood Dependencies by Village on Elingol National Park
Name of Village          High Dependency  Medium             Low Dependency
Dependency
Poti Bandar (35)         P                                  F,G
Malan (50)               P                                   F,G
Sapat (15)               P                                  F,G
Kund Malir (380)         P                                   F,G
Hinglach (15)                              P,F,G                              _
Kundrach (12)                              P,F,G
Sham (12)                F,G                                P
Chandargop (8)           F,G                                 P
Dhari Hing (15)          F,G                                 P
Nal Kor (18)             F,G                                 P
Fundok (3)               F,G                                P
Singal (55)              F,G                                P
Devri (7)                F,G                                 P
Darun (6)                F,G               _P
Dandale (15)             F,G               _P
-69 -



Taranch (100)              F,G                                     P
Number of households shown in
parentheses
P - Fisheries pressure
F - Fuelwood pressure
G - Grazing pressure
Note: All inhabitants of Hingol rely on some livestock use for subsistence. Pastoralists rely heavily on livestock for
subsistence and income. Fishing is largely for subsistence. About 80-90 pastoral households own on the average about 100
livestock/household. Hunting is restricted to subsistence by local communities or is carried out by foreigners (e.g., Houbara
Bustard). Agriculture (castor oil) is relegated to the availability of rainwater, which is usually sparse in the area.
Table A (iii) Showing Livelihood Dependencies in Machiara National Park
Name of Village                         High Dependency   Medium                 Low Dependency
Dependency
Panjur Galli (101)                      +
Minha (92)                                                  +
Serli Sacha East (136)                                      +
Serli Sacha West (126)                                      +
Jing Bala (114)                                             +
Jing Zerin (147)                                            +
Panjur (204)                            +
Konkan (141)                            +
Nad Garan (62)                                              +
Pala Zerin (124)                                            +
Besri (234)                             +
Dabrial (180)                                               +
Chatian/G.Khetar (165)                  +
Ghatian (99)                                                +
Bherri (248)                                                                     +
Doba (106)  -                                                                    +
Garan Kutli (100)                                           +
NalaKas/Sadqa (192)                                         +
Paharan/Khetar (84)                     +
Seri (219)                              +
Chakrian (145)                          +
Doliar/Dana (146)                       +
Machiara West (77)                                          +
Machiara East (164)                                         +
Chatha/Mohri/Panjnad (135)              +
Koli (100)                              +
Chimian Khetar/Kubbaya (107)            +
- 70 -



Serina/Batdara (146)                    +                                         Numrber of
households shown
in parentheses
+ - Collective dependency from grazing, fuelwood and timber
Note: Due to tradition of migration into the hills in summer, most villages are heavily dependent on the park for their
livelihood. Whereas, in the Union Council of Bherri villages, exploitation of resources occur outside the core zone of the park,
while villages of the Union Council of Machiara and Serli Sacha are removing resources from the core zcne, requiring special
attention. An estimated 2,400+ households around Machiara are dependent on the park. An estimated 400 households are
relatively less dependent due to overseas migration and incomes.
- 71 -



Annex 2b: Environmental Issues
The project is classified as a "B" category project in accordance to the World Bank's Operational Directive
4.01 (Environmental Assessment), because it is expected to have no irreversible adverse impacts on the
environment. On the contrary, the project is expected to have highly beneficial impacts, by aiming to
manage the existing pressures on biological resources in the three protected areas (PAs). The activities to
be supported under the project are: (A) protected area biodiversity management, which includes the
following components (i) integration of custodial communities in park management and conservation and
formulation of park management plans and strategies; (ii) baseline resource inventory and research; (iii)
improvement of park infrastructure; (iv) improvement in park operations; (v) habitat improvement and
wildlife enrichment; and (vi) public environmental awareness and outreach; (B) sustainability of park
management; (C) human resource development; and (D) project coordination and monitoring. All these
activities are expected to produce wide-scale beneficial impacts, by protecting habitats, population of
threatened and vulnerable species and promoting the sustainable use of resources within the PAs and their
buffer zones.
Environmental Issues in Project Areas: Most of the proposed project activities are focused on improving
management of the PAs and the development of alternative resources and sources of incomes to replace
currently unsustainable practices of resource exploitation from the PAs. Other project activities, such as
awareness raising, training and capacity building, are also expected to have beneficial environmental
impacts by raising public support for biodiversity conservation and improving the skills of park staff to
manage the PAs. Information gaps in terms of existing baseline conditions to be addressed through a
focussed, cost-effective applied research program will seek to demonstrate new approaches to resource
protection and sustainable harvesting of forest products. The results of the research activities are expected
to contribute to a better understanding of protected area issues and in improving efforts to manage them.
Since most of the proposed project activities are expected to be small-scale, very localized, labor intensive
and based on local materials, they are expected to have minimal or negligible impact on the environment.
No major infrastructure development or construction activities will be undertaken by the project
Environment Review of Proposed Project Activities: During project preparation, a wide range of
potential management, sustainable use and protection activities were identified through a participatory
process. Field appraisal during project preparation and experiences from similar projects in the country
and region, indicate that activities under the custodial comrnunity sub-component might include
bee-keeping, cottage industries, processing of agricultural products, value-added processing of medicinal
and non-timber forest products, skills development in non-farming enterprises, food processing, tailoring,
sericulture, poultry, ecotourism, energy conservation, improved agriculture and minor irrigation works, etc.
Not all investments would necessarily be adopted, and more may be identified during detailed site-specific
planning exercises. The scope and size of these activities, the scale of operation and site-specific
considerations are, however, expected to be identified through a consultative microplanning process during
project implementation. The range of activities identified above are not expected to cause any major impact
on the environment. Table I and 2 provide a more detailed discussion of potential environmental effects
and safeguard measures.
The 'park management planning' sub-component will focus on actions that reduce negative impacts of local
people on biodiversity and provide alternatives to traditional resource uses. A close link is likely to be
established between the participatory social mobilization and the core park management planning process
to ensure that local people play a substantive role in the development of appropriate management strategies
- 72 -



for the protected areas. Resource inventory and research will provide the basis for improving the
management of the protected areas and reducing the pressures within them. Improvements in park
infrastructure will be limited, small in scale and include the construction of trails, camp sites, wildlife
observation posts, small road maintenance works and repairs, water and waste disposal facilities, patrol
huts and few small staff buildings. There will be no construction of major infrastructure facilities in the
PAs.
Other components, the establishment of a 'Park Association' for administering the proceeds of an
endowment, human resource development, and monitoring and evaluation are all expected to have a
positive impact on the management of the protected areas and provide an opportunity for promoting the
long-term financial sustainability of PA programs.
Proposed Environmental Action: Project design includes specific considerations for management of any
potential environmental or ecological impact. In particular, Project staff at the protected area level and
technical specialists, would evaluate if potential microplan investments that are to be determined through
site-specific participatory planning processes are environmentally and socially sound. Eligibility criteria
will be developed early in project implementation to determine if proposed investments have any potential
to impact on the environment. Only activities that are expect to have beneficial impacts would be eligible
for financing under the project.
In the context of the custodian community activities, the scope, nature and range of inve;,tments, would be
determined and implemented by local communities on a village by village basis according to local
environmental conditions and needs. Using participatory and 'tailored' rural appraisal surveys and
techniques, village communities will determine altemative income and development investments within the
agreed upon eligible criteria and procedures that ensures that investments are focused directly on
addressing current pressures on the PA resources. Using these eligibility criteria, the project team would
ensure that investments are ecologically, environmentally and socially sound, are directly focused on the
conservation objectives, and are financially, technically, and institutionally sustainable. In terms of park
management activities, Project staff would review all proposed park management activilies for their
environmental soundness, ensure specific mitigation action is carried out to improve environmental
conditions, and closely monitor any changes in environmental conditions.
Project performance review and impact monitoring would ensure compliance with environmental standards.
Project review and monitoring (the latter to be undertaken by an independent institution) will also provide
adequate feedback to enable management to make changes in project design so that objectives of
conservation of biodiversity are met.
- 73 -



Table 1
A. Protected Area Biodiversity Management
Activities                Size and Scope            Environmental Effects    Potential Environmental
I__________________ j  ~                             Safeguards & Mitigation
1. Integration of Custodial Communities in Park Management and Formulation
of Park Management Plan and Strategy
Community Orientation    Explanation of operational Ensures better
and Mobilization          philosophy and proposed   understanding and
financing criteria to local  transparency of
communities by skilled    project-activities amongst
planning teams, including  custodian communities
social mobilizers.        with increased potential for
local support for
conservation.
Social Assessment, Design  Participatory preparation of Identification of alternative
and Allocation of         village resource and      ecologically friendly
Microplanning Investments socio-economic profiles;   investment opportunities
development of local     that reduce currently
community institutions;    unsustainable and
agreement on site-specific  destructive practices of
investments to mitigate    resource exploitation.
against current
dependencies of PA
resources, conflict
resolution amongst
competing resources uses.
Implementation of         Small scale investments at Limited soil disturbance    Activities must meet
alternative investment    household or village-level. and exposure of soil for    specific environmental and
activities                Investments will be       short periods. No change   social eligibility criteria to
site-specific and might   in use of agro-chemicals   qualify for financing. No
likely include alternative   anticipated.           heavy machinery or
energy devices; optimal                             extensive land preparation
utilization of agricultural                         is envisaged. Very limited
land; improved on-farm                              adverse impact. The
forage and fuelwood                                 intensity of agricultural
production capacity;                                development will be very
ecotourism, sericulture,                            low that any residue
apiculture, improved                                flowing to the environment
livestock breeds,                                   would be small in relation
employment in park                                  to assimilative capacity and
activities, job-skills                              unlikely to register
training, handicraft                                significant impact.
development, etc.                                   Conversely the
development of increased
agricultural production and
alternative incomes will
increase local incomes and
reduce pressures on wild
habitat.
- 74 -



Management Planning     Preparation of participatory Provides opportunity for
management plans,       improved resource
strategies to address current utilization and protection
utilization of resources for
sustainable management of
PAs and surrounding lands.
2. Baseline Resource Inve tory and Research
Baseline Resource       Technical assistance,    Positive impact on
Inventory and research    training and research  enhancing knowledge and
support to identify     application of sustainable
sustainable management   management approaches to
strategies.             protected areas.
3. Improvement in Park Infrastructure
Park Infrastructure Works  Limited to maintenance    No new vegetation    Structures will be largely
and consolidation of    clearance expected. Some  located in buffer zones and
existing trails and park    limited soil working  location planned carefully
roads; construction of fire  necessary at staff  to cause minimal soil
towers; improved        campsites. Otherwise most disturbance. Construction
communication network;   activities are expected to  to be done in dry season
construction of small-scale have a positive      reducing potential for soil
staff housing and patrol    environmental impact.    erosion. Areas around staff
huts; camp sites, water and                      housing will be stabilized
waste disposal facilities.                       and natural re-vegetation
Most facilities will likely be                   encouraged.
located in the buffer zones
or specific use areas.
4. Improvement of Park Operations
Park Operations         Improved communication  Positive environmental
systems through         impact
installation of VHF/UHF
systems, improved
surveillance, law
enforcement and
monitoring of species and
habitats.
5. Habitat Improvement and Wildlife Enrichment
Habitat Improvement     Identification of habitat    Habitat improvement works
Works                   improvement works and    will be based on scientific
wildlife enrichment     information and supported
measures in degraded areas by a monitoring program to
will follow site-specific    measure effectiveness of
baseline surveys and     activities. Most measures
technical feasibility   are expected to have a
assessments, but likely will positive impact on
include re-vegetation, soil  biodiversity.
erosion works, water
conservation, small-scale
afforestation, temporary
enclosures and rotational
grazing, in-situ breeding
and re-introduction of
selected species.
- 75 -



Logging in Machiara     Prior to establishment of   Impact of controlled  Contracts that have
National Park           national park, GoAJK has  logging on biodiversity.   terminated had
issued contract for logging                      implications for
within part of national                          biodiversity conservation.
park. Contract terminated                        GoAJK has ensured that no
in December 1999 and no                          new logging contracts will
new logging concessions                          be issued within the
are to be given.                                 national park or buffer
zones. Core areas of park to
be increased by addition of
new high biodiversity areas
east and north of the park.
6. Public Environmental Awareness and Outreach
Environmental awareness  Implementation of a wide  Positive environmental
programs                range of programs        impact through an
including park          increased awareness and
interpretation programs,   appreciation of the
nature clubs,           environment by local
teacher-training, special   people, school children,
activity design, education   general public and better
extension activities, mass  political support for the
communication programs, protected areas.
radio and television
programs, etc.
Table 2
Other Project Components
Activities              lsize and Scope          |Environmental Effects    Safeguards & Mitigation
B. Sustainability of Park Management
Park Association and    Establishment of         Positive impact in being
Endowment               not-for-profit Park      able to provide sustained
Association to administer  financing for park
the proceeds of an      management and local
endowment to support    community participatory
sustainability of the   efforts.
conservation effort.
C. Human Resource Development
Training and capacity   on-the-job training,     Improved skills of park
development             workshops, study tours, etc. staff will improve
management of the impacts
on the parks.
D. Project Coordination and Monitoring
Coordination            Facilitation of development Improved environment for
of policy and legislation    management of protected
relating to protected areas. areas.
- 76 -



Monitoring and evaluation Implementation of a   Provides a continuous
monitoring program to    feedback for project
measure impact of       implementation and an
effectiveness of project on opportunity to adjust
biodiversity conservation   activities to ensure a more
positive impact on
biodiversity and local
_livelihoods.
- 77 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Local       Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $miHion
1. Protected Areas Biodiversity Management                                              0.00
1.1 Integration of Custodial Communities/Development of Park  2.78         1.28         4.06
Management Plans and Strategies
1.2 Improvement of Park Infrastructure                       1.03          0.39          1.42
1.3 Improvement of Park Operations                          0.51           0.44         0.95
1.4 Research, Habitat Improvement & Wildlife Enrichment      0.30          0.05          0.35
1.5 Public Environmental Awareness                           0.20          0.07         0.27
2. Sustainability of Park Management                         0.08          2.05          2.13
3. Human Resource Development                                0.36          0.00          0.36
4. Project Coordination and Monitoring                       0.20          0.26          0.46
Total Baseline Cost                                          5.46          4.54         10.00
Physical Contingencies                                      0.21          0.06          0.27
Price Contingencies                                         0.35          0.13          0.48
Total Project Costs                6.02         4.73          10.75
Total Financing Required                6.02          4.73         10.75
Local        Foreign        Total
Proect Cost By Category                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                          0.50          0.55           1.05
Works                                                          1.35           0.44          1.79
Services                                                      2.17            1.53         3.70
Training                                                       0.40          0.07          0.47
Tech. Assistance, Studies, Seminar & Staff Allocation          1.60          2.14          3.74
Total Project Costs      6.02           4.73         10.75
Total Financing Required       6.02           4.73         10.75
Source: COSTAB - Distin
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$rn) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 10.75 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 93.77% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 78 -



Annex 4
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Incremental Cost Analysis
Overview
1.    The objective of the GEF alternative is to secure the active conservation of globally and nationally
significant habitats, species and genomes through the introduction of a deliberate wildlife conservation and
management strategy in departmental operations in Pakistan. The proposed project aims at reaching this
objective by using the opportunity presented by the designation of three national parks to elaborate a
community-based approach to wildlife conservation and the protection of biodiversity. Specific outputs of
the proposed project include: (i) custodial community involvement in resource management planning and
the protection of threatened habitats and ecologies within selected national parks; (ii) the recovery of animal
populations within the selected parks; and (iii) the development of income opportunities based on the
sustained preservation of the parks and their wildlife. The GEF alternative intends to achieve these outputs
at a total incremental cost of about US$10.8 million Estimated given inflation and exchange rates
prevailing at mid-1998; accounting for devaluation and revised inflation projections this figure is
re-estimated at US$10.74 as of February 1999. through the implementation of components entailing
biodiversity management of protected areas, custodial community integration and development, human
resource development, research and biodiversity monitoring, and project management.
The Country Context and Broad Development Goals
2.    Pakistan is actively pursuing a strategy of rapid economic development, in which the private sector
will have a substantial role, through the expansion of its infrastructure and the growth of industry. The
transformation of subsistence agriculture is a complementary objective to the country's development
strategy, focusing on the improvement of land productivity, crop diversification and the realization of
export-oriented comparative advantage. The Government is aware that the pursuit of rapid, decentralized,
economic growth might occasion the degradation of natural resources, which would ultimately disturb the
growth process itself, and have acknowledged the need to incorporate sufficiently aspects of environmental
sustainability into the execution of its development strategy. At the same time the Gover.nment wishes to
maintain a balanced approach toward environmental protection that integrates environmental concerns into
the development process without hampering development itself. Formally, one way to stike this balanced
approach is to discuss openly developmental and environmental agendas in the vetting of development
projects at various levels in Government.
3.    The operational effectiveness of such a dialogue, however, will depend on in-coubtry capacity for
environmental analysis and management. The Government has undertaken several measures over the past
few years to strengthen the institutional capacity of the public sector to assess the implications of
sustainable environmental management, but further institutional strengthening will represent a considerable
additional burden on the present allocation of resources available to the Government. Further allocation of
resources to institutional strengthening would come chiefly at the expense of other social and developmental
priorities. The current compromise is to accept that, in view of the increasing pressures on land and the
lack of institutional capacity for environmental management, some degradation will be inevitable and that
existing institutional capacity should be used to the greatest extent to limit the breadth and degree of
irreversibility of the damage.
- 79 -



Baseline
4.     On the national level, Pakistan is committed to protect important ecosystems and to preserve
biodiversity, and toward these ends the Government approved a National Conservation Strategy (NCS) in
1992. The NCS, although suggesting a planning framework, failed to provide concrete guidance for
implementation. Later, the Forest Sector Master Plan (FSMP) endeavored to provide more detail by
identifying three specific investment areas for a program to preserve ecosystems and biodiversity. These
areas included the rehabilitation of mangrove forests in the Indus delta of Sindh, the establishment of a
small reserve of juniper and chilghoza pine forests about the Ziarat Wildlife Sanctuary in Balochistan, and
the development of community fuelwood plantings. Regarding the condition of wildlife the FSMP does
little more than exhort provincial authorities to provide adequate protection for endangered species and
habitats within the context of other forest sector programs and to bring all conservation areas under"
scientific management".
5.     In this context "scientific management" primarily refers to forest management of the designated
areas according to the dominant vegetative types. Such an approach is not without considerable merit, as
the health of animal populations can closely adhere to the vegetative state of their environment. However,
the main implications of the strategy are that wildlife management is essentially a subsidiary concern, and
that conservation benefits will chiefly trickle down from forest working circle operations. Consequently,
proactive wildlife conservation strategies are not an operational concern, and this is reflected in the low
funding of wildlife departments relative to their forest counterparts.
6.     This forest management orientation unfortunately means that there is little inclination to consider
approaches to wildlife conservation as an operational objective in itself, especially if it were to imply
deviations of departmental resources to agents or institutions outside the forest department's direct control.
That this orientation should be prevalent in Pakistan is not so surprising. First of all, the provincial forest
departments have traditionally held the portfolio of managing forests and regulating their uses in all
respects. The separate provincial wildlife departments are a relatively recent development in Pakistan, and
they were carved out from forest department staff. Secondly, apart from a fraction of the urban elite, there
is weak popular concern for wildlife welfare in Pakistan, and this fact is mirrored in the relatively small
size of budgetary resources placed at the disposal of wildlife departmental operations.
7.     As a consequence, designated protected areas face accelerating degradation because traditional
forest management by itself is inadequate for addressing the impinging and complex concerns arising from
local population pressures and because present institutions responsible for land management lack the
capacity to articulate, let alone deploy, innovative wildlife management approaches in the areas under
threat. Community involvement in conservation management is one operational strategy that in many
areas of the world is proving to be efficient, cost-effective and sustainable. It is a strategy that could be
successful in Pakistan, but there are few internal incentives for considering the approach.
8.     Within this institutional and policy context - and initial geographic restriction as identified in the
FSMP - one can identify the following types of activities as elements of a baseline program for biodiversity
conservation: (i) planning, (ii) habitat improvement, (iii) the improvement of park infrastructure, (iv)
surveillance and enforcement, (v) public awareness, (vi) community development, (vii) human resource
development, (viii) research and monitoring, and (ix) project management. Projects now undertaken to
implement the sanctioned objectives of the NCS and FSMP such as the World Bank-financed
environmental projects, and others that originated mainly as village development efforts, but then also
acquired ad hoc environmental aspects contribute variously to the constitution of this program. As
described further below under the section of costs, the GEF alternative would not only add to the areas
- 80 -



falling under planned biodiversity conservation in Pakistan, but would also contribute to the content and
form of these baseline program elements.
Global Environmental Objectives of the GEF Alternative
9.     As a consequence to the current course of action, regarded as the baseline, Pakistan will probably
continue to lose prime habitat areas and globally significant species of wildlife. Given the present
pressures of agricultural and other competing demands on the use of land, and the present level of
institutional capacity, catastrophic loss of habitat areas will
likely continue and gravely diminish the quality of in situ biodiversity over the next 10 to 20 years.
10.    The GEF alternative would aim to support the installation of institutional capacity in Pakistan that
will effectively lead to the routine incorporation of environmental and biodiversity conservation issues and
criteria in the Government's departmental planning and operations. The proposed project aims at reaching
this objective by using the opportunity presented by the designation of three national parks to elaborate a
community-based approach to wildlife conservation and the protection of biodiversity. In implementing
this approach the GEF alternative would also lead to the establishment of operating procedures defining the
sustainable use of sensitive habitats inclusive of their animal and plant populations that can be replicated
throughout the protected areas system. The GEF alternative would support research and biodiversity
monitoring. Resources would also be committed to raising local and international public awareness of the
state of the designated national parks to deepen local support for the sustainability of the conservation
efforts.
11.    Among global benefits, the GEF alternative aims to realize the following: increased public sector
capacity in Pakistan to manage critical habitats and to expand the protected areas system; the enrichment of
biodiversity of global significance; the increased collection and analysis of information v3ital for protecting
globally significant ecological areas; the facilitation of organizing international support for conservation,
including via ecotourism; the safeguarding of species of global importance; and the expansion of
internationally shared preservation values.
System Boundary
12.    The primary impact of the GEF alternative, implemented in the period from roughly mid-1999 to
mid-2004, is to secure the active, sustainable conservation of globally and nationally silpificant habitats,
species and genomes within the Hingol National Park, Balochistan, the Machiara National Park, AJK and
Chitral Gol National Park, NWFP. The GEF alternative would achieve this by installing the institutional
capacity for a specialized form of environmental management that is not high among Pakistan's
development priorities. It would also make limited contributions to the improvement of the parks' habitats
and infrastructure.
Domestic Benefits
13.   Incremental domestic benefits expected from the proposed project include some improvement of
downstream environmental externalities and local amenity values, the improvement of local tourism
amenities, expanded coverage of habitat and species protection, the mobilization of local support for
environmental protection, the development of local incomes linked to habitat preservation, additional local
habitat information, and improved project implementation capacity. The country should. also realize
additional international as well as domestic ecotourism.
14.    Apart from the prospect of improved project implementation capacity, which should be in part
transferable to other areas or regions of Pakistan, and non-tangible domestic amenity values placed on
- 81 -



wildlife preservation, the expected incremental domestic benefits arising from the GEF alternative will
occur on a small, local scale. This will be particularly true of material benefits; although, some income
arising from international tourism will have a broader impact. The prospects for much expanded
intemational tourism, however, are not expected to be very strong, particularly in the short term.
Nevertheless, the accruing of local benefits for communities involved in the management of the parks is an
important feature of the proposed project: local benefits will compensate local recurrent costs of
supervising the use of the parks and sustain the commitments of local custodial communities to maintaining
the integrity of habitats and populations of fauna and flora within the parks. In monetary terms, total net
cash benefits to local and national economies arising primarily from increased tourism but also from other
conservation-related activities may amount to US$0.1 to US$0.2 million a year following the completion of
the project.
Costs
15.   The baseline activities undertaken by the institutions described above and the GEF alternative can
be grouped into the following categories: protected areas biodiversity management, custodial community
integration and development, human resource development, research and biodiversity monitoring, and
project management. The following contrasts the costs of the GEF alternative against the levels of
expenditures projected to be spent under the wildlife programs of NWFP, Balochistan and AJK for fiscal
years 2001 through 2005. As compared to current expenditures on wildlife programs, the GEF alternative
would represent a significant increase in expected investments specifically targeted at wildlife conservation.
In view of the overall allocation of resources on conservation and environmental rehabilitation efforts, the
GEF altemative is a far more modest addition to the Government's stated conmmitments.
16.   Under the protected areas biodiversity management component, the project would finance activities
in the areas of: (i) planning and strategy formulation, (ii) habitat improvement, (iii) improvement of park
infrastructure, (iv) surveillance and enforcement, and (v) public environmental awareness. The GEF
alternative would install procedures for wildlife conservation planning and strategy formulation not now in
place in the proposed project's implementing agencies at an incremental cost of about US$1.3,
supplementing about $1.0 million of expenditures that would occur for watershed management planning
under other projects during the period. Habitat improvement would expand ongoing wildlife department
efforts to address the extraordinary needs of the project's selected protected areas. The total trend baseline
expenditures of the provincial wildlife departments for habitat improvement are estimated at US$1.8 during
FY 2001-2005. With the GEF alternative, total expenditures on habitat improvement for the period are
estimated at about US$2.4, leading to incremental costs of about US$0.6 million. Improvements in park
infrastructure would also increase under the GEF alternative, expanding from an estimated base of US$ 1.6
million over the project period to US$3.3 million according to the site requirements of the selected parks.
Surveillance and enforcement should continue to command the bulk of the wildlife departments'
nondevelopment budgets. Without the GEF alternative, these expenditures are expected to amount to about
US$5.7 million during the project period, but given the size of the areas to be covered, these resources are
well stretched. With the GEF alternative, these expenditures would rise by US$1.3 million to establish an
effective presence in the designated parks with an approach to wildlife protection that adopts community
involvement. Finally under this component, the GEF alternative would develop public environmental
awareness of the selected protected areas, increasing baseline estimates for public education about
endangered and threatened species from an estimated US$0.5 million to US$1.8 million.
17.    Custodial community development would be a critical innovative feature of the GEF alternative. At
present wildlife departments are not well prepared to foster community-based organizations to assist in
biodiversity conservation; although, there is some experience in other line agencies. One project operating
in Palas valley of NWFP has actively incorporated some community involvement as part of a effort to
- 82 -



rehabilitate areas damaged by recent flooding, but is now winding down. Other projects, such as the
GEF/JNDP-supported Maintaining Biodiversity with Rural Community Development Project, the
EU-financed Enviromental Rehabilitation in NWFP and Punjab Project and the World Bank
environmental projects in AJK, Balochistan and NWFP also incorporate community development to
achieve environmental objectives and will carry forward into the proposed project period.
18.   In the future without the GEF altemative it may be expected that some community participation
will continue in departmental work at the current level of funding, which is estimated at approximately
US$2.5 million in total for the project period. Under the GEF altemative, community involvement in
conservation will become a far more important strategic concem for project implementation. The GEF
alternative would finance the deployment of sociological and technical teams to establish an interface
between park management authorities and communities, and to solicit local participation in park
management planning, the assessment of resource needs and the development of park-related
income-generating activities that would sustain local costs of protection. With the GEF altemative such
custodial community development expenditures are projected to be in total about US$4.7 million, yielding
an incremental cost in this category of about US$2.2 million. The experience gained by the wildlife
departments as a result of this component of the GEF alternative could herald a radical realignment of
attitudes within govemmental institutions throughout Pakistan toward the merits and effectiveness of
community involvement in conservation.
19.   As mentioned in the preceding paragraph, wildlife departments are not presently irn a position to
implement community-based conservation programs. This is primarily due to the lack of personnel
appropriately trained in such approaches. Local communities as well require knowledge and skills to
engage themselves effectively in activities that solicit their involvement. The human resource development
demonstrated under pilot projects such as the ongoing GEFiUNDP-supported Maintaininl Biodiversity
with Rural Community Development Project and the EU-financed Environmental Rehabilitation in NWFP
and Punjab Project indicates the importance of training departmental personnel and participants for the
building of rural institutions. Without the GEF altemative such training can expected to continue,
especially among rural populations that have conspicuous impacts on large degraded watersheds. Some of
this expenditure, possibly as much as US$1.0 million in the period extending from FY 2001 to 2005 will
also be bound to affect protected areas in NWFP near Kohistan, Galiat, and Dir; in Balochistan in the
vicinity of the Quetta and Ziarat valleys; and in the Northern Areas. The GEF alternative would build on
this experience and expand the training of staff and stakeholders to cover the targeted parks. The total
incremental cost for human resource development under the GEF alternative is estimated at US$2.1 million
for the project period.
20.   The implementation of a community-based approach to conservation managemert will need to be
built on an iterative planning process. Full technical information on all key aspects of the habitats
concerned and their associated wildlife is likely not be available at the start and much dala for assessing
environmental impacts and regulating park, visitor and local community interactions can only be available
over time as a result of new studies. The GEF alternative therefore proposes to expand expenditures on
research and biodiversity monitoring from the current estimated baseline of US$0.2 million over the project
period to about US$0.4 million.
21.   Finally, the GEF alternative would increase currently expected project management expenditures
over the proposed implementation period. These have been estimated at US$1.4 million (approximately
10% of the wildlife program budget) without the GEF alternative. With the GEF alternative, project
management costs rise temporarily to US$1.5 million over the project period, representing an incremental
cost of about US$0.1 million.
- 83 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
22.    Total wildlife program baseline costs during the five years of the project period are estimated at
US$15.7 million in current values. With the GEF alternative expenditures on protected areas and
biodiversity management would amount to approximately US$26.5 million equivalent. The total
incremental cost of financing the GEF alternative is estimated at US$10.78 million. The GEF alternative
would therefore increase projected expenditures for wildlife programs by about two thirds for the period.
However, the programs of the wildlife departments of NWFP, Balochistan and AJK are a subset of the
planned efforts within the forest sector of Pakistan to protect and improve the physical environrnents within
the provinces - efforts such as watershed afforestation and farm forestry development of the forest
departments at large that also contribute in varying degrees directly to the protection of important
ecosystems and the preservation of biodiversity in areas outside the protected areas designated under the
proposed project. As presented in Pakistan's Forest Sector Master Plan, the Government has already
committed to finance, or seek financing for, approximately Rs 8,124 million, or about US$203 million for
the period FY 2001 to 2005 for sector-related development activities. Against this broader perspective, the
total proposed incremental costs of US$10.8 million for the GEF alternative would represent a modest
addition to the country's prior commitments.
23.    Incremental Cost Matrix (equivalent US dollar values calculated as at mid-1998)
Component Sector         Cost         US$    Domestic          Global Benefit
Category     milli   Benefit
on
Protected Areas
Biodiversity
Management
Planning and Strategy    Baseline     1.00
Formulation
With GEF     2.28
Alternative
Incremental   1.28                   Increased public sector
capacity to manage critical
habitats & to expand a
protected areas system.
Habitat Improvement      Baseline     1.82    Improvement of
downstream
environmental
externalities
and local
amenity values.
With GEF     2.45    Same as above.
Alternative
Incremental   0.63                    Enrichment of biodiversity of
global significance.
- 84 -



Improvement of Park      Baseline      1.60    Local tourism
Infrastructure                                 amenities.
With GEF     3.25    Same as above.
Alternative
Incremental   1.65                    Facilitation of organizing
international support for
conservation through
ecotourism.
Surveillance &           Baseline      5.70    Habitat &
Enforcement                                   species
protection.
With GEF     7.00    Expanded
Alternative          habitat
coverage.
Incremental   1.30                    Safeguarding of species of
global importance.
Public Environmental     Baseline      0.46    Mobilization of
Awareness                                     local support for
environmental
protection.
With GEF     1.75    Same as above.
Alternative
Incremental   1.29                    Expansion of internationally
I                       I shared preservation values.
Component Sector         Cost          US$    Domestic         Global Benefit
Category     milli   Benefit
on
Custodial Community      Baseline      2.50    Local incomes
Development                                    not necessarily
explicitly
related to
species or
habitat
preservation.
With GEF     4.73    Local incomes
Alternative          linked to habitat
preservation.
- 85 -



Incremental   2.23    Expanded         Meaningful participation of
income           local stakeholders to enhance
generation       the likelihood of long-term
opportunities    sustainability of habitats and
for local        species of global importance;
stakeholders;    establishment of a trust fund to
improved local   secure the financial
environmental    sustainability of conservation
quality,         efforts.
Human Resource            Baseline      1.00
Development
With GEF      3.06
Alternative
Incremental   2.06                     Increased public sector
capacity to manage critical
habitats & to expand a
protected areas system.
Research & Biodiversity   Baseline      0.23    Local
Monitoring                                      information.
With GEF      0.42    Same as above.
Alternative
Incremental   0.19                     Increased collection and
analysis of information vital
for protecting ecological areas
of global importance
Project Management        Baseline      1.40    Project
implementation
capacity.
With GEF      1.53    Same as above.
Alternative
Incremental   0.13                     Increased public sector
capacity to manage critical
habitats & to expand a
protected areas system.
- 86 -



Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis                  Financial Analysis
Taxes
Subsidies
Project Costs              N/A                                 N/A
Neutral
Neutral
Summarv of benefits and costs:
Benefits from biodiversity conservation are not practically quantifiable.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
In the course of the preparation and appraisal of the project, alternative project approaches to effecting
protection in the targeted areas were considered. These basically resolve to choices between more or less
Government-financed policing of areas. The present project design strives to reduce the prevalence of
departmental patrolling by sharing the responsibility of surveillance with stakeholder communities. The
project therefore aims to demonstrate that effective protection of areas can be achieved while making
smaller demands on recurrent budgetary demands than would otherwise be necessary. As presently
formulated, it might be possible to reduce recurrent financial demands of protection through a more
aggressive implementation of cost- and benefit-sharing arrangements. There is no evidence that further
development in this direction is feasible. In the course of the implementation of the project, such evidence
may become available and indicate where improvements in long-term cost effectiveness could be improved.
In the meantime, the most feasible alternatives to the project's design are those that would commit more
resources to expanding the posting of departmental staff in the areas. Financially, these altematives are not
likely to be sustainable for the Government even in the short run.
There are no international standards for unit project costs of implementing biodiversity conservation. Some
comparisons might be made, however, with the investments other recent projects are undertaking to
conserve specifically identified protected areas. The following table computes costs per area for a number
of such protected area projects receiving GEF assistance. The costs include both investments made directly
within identified protected areas and the costs of other activities, such as buffer zone development, which
are undertaken to indirectly support the effectiveness of protective efforts. Such features are part of the
present project's approach in the three areas of Chitral Gol, Hingol and Machiara. As compared to these
other projects, the average expenditures of the present project would be clearly much less per unit area.
By area the present project will spend relatively no more than most other ongoing biodiversity projects.
- 87 -



Country       Project                  Base      Original Base    Base Cost   Total         Average
Year     Costs US$        in US$       Specilfied   Project Cost
million,        million      Protected    USS/ha
includes        mid-1998    Area (ha)
physical        values
contingencies.
Romania       Danube Delta Biodiversity   1994   4.36             4.91         561,000      8.75
Malawi        Lake Malawi/Nyasa         1994     1.58 Includes    1.78         9,400        189.25
Biodiversity Conservation          costs of
protected areas
component for
the Lake
Malawi
National Park,
one third of the
project's base
costs for
strengthening
national
capacity, one
third of project
administration
costs and one
third of the
provision for
physical
contingencies.
Honduras      Biodiversity              1995     75.30 Total cost  82.28       1,000,000    82.28
of GEF
alternative for
supporting the
protection of
the
Mesoamerican
Biological
Corridor.
Nicaragua     Atlantic Biodiversity     1995     76.00 Total cost  83.05       1,300,000    63.88
Corridor                           of GEF
alternative for
supporting the
protection of an
expanded
Atlantic
Biodiversity
Corridor.
Philippines    Conservation of Priority  1994    20.54            23.12        1,250,000    18.50
Protected Areas                                                   .
- 88 -



Laos          Wildlife and Protected    1994      4.60             5.18         714,850      7.24
Areas Conservation                                               Equals the
average of
the four
largest and
four
smallest
areas that
were under
considerati
on for
selection.
Haiti         Forest and Parks          1996      19.30            20.48        500,000      40.95
Protection Technical                                             Estimated
Assistance                                                       total area of
La Visite,
Pic Macaya
and the
Foret des
Pins.
India         Ecodevelopment            1996      59.51 Includes    63.13       671,400      94.03
costs of
improved
protected area
management,
village
development,
support and
project
management.
The costs of the
preparation of
future
biodiversity
projects and the
reimbursement
of the project
preparation
facility are not
included.
Pakistan      Protected Area            1998      10.00            10.00        663,996      15.06
Management
- 89 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Years Ending
| Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.8        2.5        1.9        2.2        1.7        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.1        0.1        0.2        0.2        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           1.8        2.6        2.0        2.4        1.9        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               1.8        2.6        2.0        2.4        1.9        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.1        0.2        0.0        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.1        0.1        0.0        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiersGEF           1.7        2.4        2.0        2.3        1.9       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneflciaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      1.8        2.6        2.0        2.4        1.9       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
The Implementing Agencies (LAs) in AJK, Balochistan and NWFP will work autonomously. Ministry of
Environment, Local Government & Rural Development) MELGRD will, however, play a coordinating role
for some functions including impact monitoring. Financial management system of the four implementing
entities for the Protected Areas Management Project (PAMP), i.e. the Federal Govermment, Provincial
Governments of Balochistan and NVVFP and the Government of AJK is uniform. This Annex covers all the
four implementing entities.
1. Organization
lAs have given assurance that adequately qualified/experience Accounts Officers will be in place before
disbursement of funds. Generally, the following support staff (professional/government qualification not
required) are at the disposal of the Accounts Officer:
*  Accounts Assistant - overall supervision and financial reporting.
*  Head Clerk - for correspondence
*   Sub-disburser/Cashier - for cash receipts/payments
*   Senior Clerk - for record keeping
*  Junior Clerk - for receipt and dispatch
The Accounts Officer (AO) will report to the Project Director/Park Manager. AO's prime responsibilities
would be as follows:
- 90 -



* Checking suppliers'/contractors' bills and processing for payment
* Checking expenses incurred by the field staff
*   Ensuring that financial discipline is maintained as per guidelines issued by the Auditor General's
Office
* Maintaining Bank Book for the Special Account
* Writing General Ledger
* Writing Subsidiary Ledger
* Writing Fixed Assets Register
* Checking Expense Reports of Field Staff
* Checking cash/Cash Book if cash imprests are to be kept
* Preparing Financial Management Reports
*   Preparing quarterly budgets based on PC-1 and reporting variances
* Preparing payroll
* Reconciling subsidiary ledger and Fixed Assets Register with the General Ledger
* Preparing Monthly Bank Reconciliation Statements
* Obtaining adequate insurance cover for costly assets/fidelity insurance
2. Accounting System and Internal Controls
All the implementing agencies are maintaining accounts on cash basis. Since the accounting staff are not
trained in accrual accounting we are not suggesting a Modified Accounting System. However, the periodic
statements of expenditure may include expenditure incurred but not paid for. The implemznting agencies
are using the Chart of Classification of Receipts and Disbursements (part of the Account Code) issued by
the Auditor General of Pakistan. It has been confirmed by the Auditor General's Office that manuals have
been issued for budgeting, accounting, purchases, financial powers and regulations and auditing. However,
all of these were not available with the Provincial IAs and AJK when the Mission visited them. These will
have to be procured from the Auditor General's Office and followed. In view of the fact that accounts will
be maintained manually by Accounts Officers and that the systems and procedures are documented, no
Technical Assistance is required in this respect. The existing chart of accounts can take care of the
following major heads of expenditure of PAMP:
* Civil Works
* Field Works
*   Equipment
- Marine
- Agriculture
- Field
- Radio
- Mountain
-  Arns
- Office
- Vehicle equipment
- Vehicle Workshop
* Materials
* Community Labor/Services
* Vehicles
*   Publicity/Publications
*   Head Office & Professional services
91 -



*   Technical Assistance
-  Intemationally Recruited
- Locally Recruited
* Federal Staff
* Overseas Tours and Education
* Local Training
* Park Endowment
* Project Implementation Cost
- Staff Field Allowances
-  Community Game Watchers
- Civil Works O&M
- Office & Field O&M
However, activity-based subsidiary records will have to be maintained additionally for monitoring of detail
accounts/key indicators - shown below:
Integration of Custodial Communities in PA Management
Park Management Team
Resource Baseline Inventory & Research
Management Plan Formulation
Community Mobilization
Park-based Community Development Activities
Park Operations
Headquarter Outfitting
Visitor/Information Center
Expansion of Park Communications
Surveillance & Enforcement - New Ranger Station Outfitting
Project Implementation & Monitoring
Biodiversity-diversity Monitoring
Park Habitat Improvement, Wildlife Enrichment
Pasture Rehabilitation
Unspecified Interventions
Improvement of Park Infrastructure
Road Network
Trail Network
Water Supply
Park Headquarters
Visitor/Information Center
Site Marking
Weather Stations
- 92 -



Public Environmental Awareness
Awareness Program
Human Resource Development
Specialized Training for Staff & Guards
Community Training
Study Tours
Park Management Sustainability
Project Management
- 93 -



Internal Control Issues
Financial Management manuals issued by the Auditor General's Office will have to be procured by the lAs
and strictly followed. Cheques for Special Accounts should be signed jointly by the Project Director and the
Park Manager. In the absence of adequate segregation of duties without a full set of support staff,
agreement will be sought for the payment vouchers, copies of Bank Book and Bank Statements, and Bank
Reconciliation Statements to be sent to the Provincial Headquarters for post-audit/checking. Once the
support staff is available, better segregation of duties should be established.
A number of areas will require revisions to procedures in order to ensure reasonable financial internal
control:
* Instead of stamping the bills/cash memos, proper payment vouchers should be used showing the
amount, account head, preparer, approver and receiver.
* Goods Received Notes should be prepared for goods procured certifying that the quantity and
quality are as per Purchase Order.
* No advance payments of any nature should be made out of the Special Account.
* Suppliers/contractors should be paid only after physical verification of the goods/work through
crossed cheques and Income-tax deducted as per Law.
*   Muster roll payments should only be made after checking by the AO and approval by PD/PM.
Cash payments to suppliers/contractors should be discouraged.
*   If at all, cash payments are to be made for petty expenses to a defined maximum value; imprests
with reasonable limits should be established to be replenished at weekly intervals. Cash
payments/cash on hand should be checked by the immediate supervisor on a daily basis.
*   Fixed Assets Register will have to be redesigned to provide to date classified expenditure (in
addition to the quantities) to match with the control accounts. Assets will have to be tagged for
identification. Fixed assets purchased should be promptly recorded in the Fixed Assets Register.
* Log books for vehicles should be properly maintained.
* Subsidiary records including the Fixed Assets Register should be written up on a daily basis. Bank
Book should be reconciled with the bank statements on a monthly basis and submitted to the
Provincial Headquarters for verification.
* Control accounts in the General Ledger should be reconciled with subsidiary record/Fixed Assets
Register on a monthly basis.
* Fixed assets should be physically verified by the auditors at the time of their visit to the projects.
* There should not be any overwriting in any of the vouchers or books. Any corrections should be
made by crossing out the incorrect entry, writing the correct entry on top of the incorrect entry and
initialing by the person responsible for correction.
* Internal/external auditors should check that the main and subsidiary records are being maintained
properly and that totals of subsidiary accounts agree with the control accounts.
3. Planning and Budgeting
PD/CCF gets inputs from the CFs/DFOs in respect of activities planned for the year and prepares proposal
for approval of the Administrative Secretary. PC- Is are formulated and submitted to the Administrative
Secretary who forwards these to the P&D and Finance Departments for approval.
The budget account heads are compatible with the accounting system and in sufficient detail for monitoring
expenditure. Budgetary control is exercised by the respective Heads of Department through Budget Control
- 94 -



Form and the Director Budget & Accounts.
4. Headquarter and Projects
The Project Director/Park Manager will submit quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) to the
Bank, MELGRD and the Provincial Headquarters. In addition, they will also send the Expenditure
Statements along with the payment vouchers, copies of Bank Book, bank statements and b;mk
reconciliation statements to the Provincial Headquarters on a monthly basis for post-audit. The Project
Directors of Chitral, Hingol and Machiara projects will submit quarterly PMRs to the Project Coordinator,
MELGRD for impact monitoring. Internal Auditors of respective implementing agencies should visit the
projects at least once a year for verification of expenditure and assets. They should submit audit reports to
the Bank, MELGRD, Provincial Headquarters and the AJK Government. All quarterly reports will be
submitted to the Bank within 45 days following the end of each quarter.
5. Computerized Accounting Systems
Under the present scenario, where the accounting staff are not computer literate, we are not suggesting
computerized accounting for the project. Hardware, software and training needs of staff may be assessed if
and when the entities are ready for computerization. Then, the following EDP controls will have to be put
in place:
*     Organization and management controls
*     Application systems and maintenance controls
*     Computer operating controls
*      rSystems software controls
*     Data entry and program controls
The following safeguards will also have to be in place:
Off-site back-up data and computer programs
*     Recovery procedures for use in the event of loss
*     Provision for off-site processing in the event of disaster
6. Entity And Project Accountability/Financial Management Reporting (PMR) Requirements
Formats for annual Financial Statements have been discussed with the Auditor General's (AG) Office.
They have agreed to report on the information in these formats.
The following table shows responsibility in various financial areas:
Cash Management      Project Director/Park Manager (signatories to the Special Account)
Procurement          Project Director/Park Manager as per Delegation of Powers and Bank's
requirements
Accounting           Accounts Officer as per guidelines issued by the Auditor General's Office
and the Bank
- 95 -



Reconciliations       Accounts Officer
Financial Reporting   Accounts Officer and Project Director/Park Manager
Auditing              Internal/external (Government) auditors
The project will not be eligible to commence with PMR-based disbursements. However, the Project
Directors will provide, from inception of the project, a transitional set of PMRs comprising a report of
sources and uses of funds (PMR 1-A) together with output monitoring reports (PMR 2) and procurement
reports (PMR 3-C and PMR-3 D) to MELGRD, the Provincial Headquarters and the Bank within 45 days
of the end of each quarter. Following a re-assessment of the project's financial management systems after
one year of the project's implementation, the project may become eligible for PMR-based disbursements.
During this twelve month period, the project management will be expected to develop the capacity to
submit to MELGRD, Provincial Headquarters and the Barnk, in addition to the reports just described, the
full set of PMRs (see below).
The Bank's formats for these Project Management Reports (PMRs), listed below, have been provided,
discussed and agreed upon with each implementing agency.
1. Project Sources and Uses of Funds                                     PMR 1-A
2. Use of Funds by Project Activity                                      PMR 1-B
3. Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursement)                               PMR 1-D
4. Special Account Statement                                             PMR 1-E
5. Project Cash Forecast                                                 PMR 1-F
6. Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management)                        PMR 2-A
7. Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Project Activity)         PMR 2-B
8. Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)                      PMR 3-A
9. Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants Services)                 PMR 3-B
10. Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)                        PMR 3-C
11. Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)                  PMR 3-D
The above reports will be produced by Accounts Officers under each Project Director after
obtaining/consolidating information from sub-locations. These reports will be submitted by the Project
Directors to the Bank, MELGRD, Provincial Headquarters and the AJK Government as per respective
organization setups. All reports will be submitted within 45 days of the close of each quarter. In addition, a
consolidated PMR summary will be submitted by the MELGRD to the Bank on a quarterly basis, within
45 days of the end each quarter.
- 96 -



7. Fund Flow, Special Accounts and SOE Procedures Fund Flow Chart
World Bank                   Special Account               Rupee AccoiuLts
Releases Funds               (NBP)                         (at Project Sites)
into Special                 Eligible                      Reimbursed J:rough
Accounts                     Expenditure                   Special Accounts
Withdrawal Applications/SOEs
Funds will be directly released into the respective Special Accounts to be operated by the signatories shown
below. Special Accounts will be located at Muzaffarabad in AJK, Peshawar in NWFP arnd Quetta in
Balochistan. However, rupee accounts may be opened at project sites for reimbursement from the Special
Accounts at Muzaffarabad, Peshawar and Quetta. These Rupee accounts would be operated by the
respective Park Managers. Operation of Special Account will be as per Bank's requirements already agreed
to by the GoP through the Ministry of Finance - separately covered in the Project Appraisal Document.
Special Accounts will be operated jointly by the following personnel:
MELGRD         Deputy Secy. (Land & Water) and Section Officer (Biodiversily)
AJK            Project Director and Park Manager
Balochistan    Project Director and Park Manager
NWFP           Project Director and Park Manager
8. Audit Requirements
Audit arrangements were discussed with the Auditor General's Office. It has been confirmed that the entire
expenditure will be subject to Government Audit. Due to a lack of facilities, audits will be undertaken
regularly on an annual, not interim, basis. Special interim audits can be specially arranged, however, if the
Bank provides a specific request describing its concerns. Audited financial statements (as per Bank's
formats) in respect of Project/SOEs and Special Accounts will be provided to the Bank within six months
of the close of the financial year. The Bank may also request for Special Audit if misappropriation is
suspected at any stage.
The audit should include the following:
*   assessment of adequacy of internal control systems
*   whether proper documentation has been maintained for the financial transactions
*   verification that the expenditure incurred is eligible for Bank financing
Regular internal audits of project expenditures for each province and AJK will be conducted at least once a
year covering a minimum of 30 % of the monetary value of transactions.
Audited financial statements in respect of Project/SOE and Special Account will be made available to the
- 97 -



Bank from:
a) Ministry of Environment, Local Governnent and Rural Development;
b) AJK Wildlife Fisheries and Tourism Department;
c) NWFP Wildlife Department;
d) Balcohistan Forest and Wildlife Department; and
e) Park Association Endowment Fund
9. Agreed Action Plan to Improve Financial Management
(1) Accounts Officers (AOs) and support staff would be in place before negotiations to assure proper
segregation of duties and intemal control. All implementing agencies have confirmed that they would like to
have the AO from within the government, preferably from the Accountant General's office. Duties of
Accounts Officers are predefined and as such preparation of job description, selection criteria and
advertisement, etc. is not required. However, job description of Accounts Officer (AO) would be prepared
in case the AO is hired from the open market. In that case, selection process would be scheduled
accordingly.
(2) Category/activity wise subsidiary record would be developed by the Accounts Officers [in addition to
the main ledger] in respect of expenditure and fixed assets during the first financial year. PMR formats as
per Annex 7 of the Financial Management Manual were discussed with the implementing agencies who
agreed to provide PMRs 1-A, 2-A and 2-B during the first financial year. This would help in familiarizing
the accounting staff with the Bank's reporting requirements and also facilitate the Bank staff in assessing
financial management capacity towards the end of the first year.
(3) For moving towards PMR-based disbursement the implementing agencies agreed to begin submitting to
the Bank a complete set of PMRs within 45 days of the close of each quarter after one year of project's
implementation;
(4) Intemnal audit would be conducted at least once a year covering at a minimum 30 % of the monetary
value of transactions. The internal audit program would be developed at least one month before the start of
each financial year and communicated to the Bank
(5) With regard to the status of settlement of issues raised in BNRMP's audit reports for FY98 and 99,
BFD has advised the Bank of remedial measures taken to address the audit observations raised by the
auditors, and these are considered acceptable. These measures include:
* Staff involved in financial mismanagement have been terninated and recoveries initiated;
* Internal audit is being conducted on a regular basis;
* Forest advances are no longer being given;
* All payments from the counterpart funds are being pre-audited by the AG's office;
*   Senior officials are paying regular visits to project sites for monitoring of activities;
* Accounts and progress reports are being obtained from the sub-projects on a regular basis; and
* CF (BFD) also confirmed that the financial irregularities that occurred in BNRMP would not
occur again due to improved financial controls and severe disciplinary action taken against the
defaulters by the Government of Balochistan.
Where the audit observations relate to lack of supporting documentation for expenditures, BFD has
- 98 -



advised that it is taking the necessary steps to provide the auditors with the required documentation in
order to settle these as soon as possible.
- 99 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Procurement
General
All procurement of goods, works, and services financed by the Bank shall be carried in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, and in September 1997 and January 1999). The providers of consulting services financed by
the Bank shall be selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in Guidelines for Selection of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). In
case of conflict between the Bank's procurement procedures and any national rules and regulations, the
Bank's procurement procedures will take precedence. To address shortcomings identified in the past, in the
national procurement procedures, the government will specifically ensure the following procedures in
national competitive bidding procedures to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency
with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
a. invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with wide circulation, at
least 30 days prior to deadline for submission of bids.
b. bid documents must be made available by mail or in person to all who pay the required fee;
c. foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders in the bidding process;
d. bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
e. qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
f. bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
g. bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of the Bank;
h. before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank's prior concurrence shall be obtained;
i.  bids shall be solicited contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit prices and not on the basis of
a composite schedule of rates;
j.  contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
k. contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; and
1. post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidder.
Works
Package of works: It is recommended that incremental (new) construction of buildings and other civil
works estimated to cost more than US$50,000, including culverts, bridges and other road structures, and
improvements to water systems shall be bundled into 3 packages, one per park, for National Competitive
Bidding. Small contracts for works, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may be procured under
lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
Small works relating to improvements to agricultural land, irrigation and water resources, soil
conservation, household fuelwood and energy, income generating activities (e.g. poultry farming,
horticulture, fishing, etc.) and others as decided through the micro-planning process may be contracted to
Village Conservation Committees, as appropriate.
Labor required for field works, such as erosion control and tree planting can be procured through Force
- 100 -



Account.
Procurement Schedules: Detailed procurement schedules for the packages are attached in Ihke project
scheduling of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Construction of new works is expected to span two
years.
Design and Specification: The design and specification of buildings to be constructed will be prepared in
detail within the first year of the project by the Provincial Governments and GoAJK, and approved by the
Bank.
Bidding Documents: Simplified bidding documents based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts, January 1995) and adjusted to satisfy requirements that are
acceptable to the Bank and already agreed upon with Government will be used and contracts will be
concluded following procedures acceptable to the Bank for National Competitive Bidding.
Land: If necessary, the implementing agencies will enter into a Memorandum of Understand(ing (MOU)
with Provincial Governments to acquire land for new buildings.
Goods, Equipment, Machinery Supplies and Vehicles
Procurement Packages: International and National Shopping Procedures shall be permissible for purchases
of goods, equipment, materials and vehicles only for contracts less than US$50,000. Above this threshold
NCB shall be required. Procurement of equipment, excluding vehicles, for the outfitting of' park offices and
personnel shall proceed in two phases. The respective Wildlife Department is expected to procure the first
round of equipment as specified in the detailed cost tables attached to the PIP. These packcages are small
(less than US$50,000 per contract) and are expected to be procured using National Shopping Procedures.
The Park Association, on behalf of the operations of the parks, will procure a second round of equipment,
including replacements for some items, in the fourth year of the project as specified in the detailed cost
tables. These items are also expected to be procured using National Shopping. The administration of each
park will require the purchase of a small number of vehicles, including motorcycles, in the first project
year. These are expected to be procured using National Competitive Bidding. Additionally, the contract
for the Park Management TA Team (see below) for each park will include the purchase of one vehicle as
part of the cost of the contract. These vehicles are expected to be procured using National Shopping
Procedures. (Upon the completion of the TA contracts, these vehicles shall become the property of the
Park Association. The Park Association in turn may lend these vehicles out for continued use within the
parks.) Improvements to habitats, wildlife protection and enrichment, various workshops for planning and
community mobilization, and the operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment will require
(annually in many instances) small quantities of diverse goods. These are expected to be procured using
National Shopping Procedures. Finally, contracts for various studies falling under resource baseline
inventory and research shall include provisions for required miscellaneous field supplies and equipment.
As appropriate, such items will be procured using National or International Shopping. Similar items of
text books, journals and other technical publications are expected to be bundled and purchased through
International Shopping. Materials for minor works on trails and for boundary marking are also expected to
be procured using National Shopping.
Procurement Schedule: As indicated for the fiscal years shown in the detailed cost tables.
Design and Specification: The design and specification for goods to be procured using National
Competitive Bidding shall be reviewed by the Bank.
- 101 -



Invitation Documents: Simplified standard bidding documents agreed with the implementing agencies and
based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods, January 1995, will be used
and contracts concluded using procedures acceptable to the Bank for National Competitive Bidding.
Technical Assistance, Training, Studies and Services
Procurement Packages: Each park will employ the services of a Park Management TA Team consisting of
intemationally and locally recruited consultants. A minimum of three contracts will be awarded for TA for
operational support to the PMT. Where desirable, technical assistance for resource baseline inventories
and research in each of the three parks shall also be bundled into three contracts for competitive selection
among local institutions and firms; although, in some cases (particularly for studies to be identified later) it
may be preferable to arrange a number of contracts for individuals, with each contract falling under
US$50,000. Such individual contracts shall follow Bank procedures for the selection of individual
consultants. As mentioned in previous sections, TA contracts shall include the purchase of vehicles, some
field supplies and equipment, and report production for the consultants services. Training, including degree
courses, shall be undertaken with prior review and approval of the Bank. Under the project, six persons
shall be sent out for diploma training, two from each province and AJK; and three individuals for overseas
MSc training, one from each province and AJK. Miscellaneous service purchased under the project include
the hiring of transport and of secretarial and other office services, such as report production and
duplication. These services may be procured through National Shopping. Labor required for some
activities entailing habitat improvements, wildlife enrichment and protection such as, for example, the labor
involved in the transfer of turtle eggs to Hingol, may be arranged through the use of Force Account.
Procurement Schedule: Detailed procurement schedules for the packages are attached in the project
scheduling of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Design and Specification: All TORs for TA will be drafted by the implementing agencies and approved by
the Bank.
Invitation Documents: Consultants will be recruited following the Bank's Guidelines, Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1999, and using the Bank's Standard
Request for Proposal, 1997 (revised April 1998 and July 1999). Consultants will be hired through Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS).
Miscellaneous
Miscellaneous procurement items include staff allowances, the hiring of community wildlife watchers, and
O&M for works and goods. Allowances and wages, the maintenance of works, office O&M, and vehicle
O&M shall be financed through Force Account or Local Shopping as appropriate.
- 102-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB            Other2         Ni.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00           1.64           0.15           0.00           1.79
(0.00)         (1.46)         (0.13)         (0.00)         (1.59)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.24           0.81           0.00           1.05
(0.00)         (0.18)         (0.59)         (0.00)         (0.77)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00           4.17           0.00           4.17
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.09)         (0.00)         (4.09)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00           3.74           0.00           3.74
(Operating Costs/GrantstPark
Endowment/ Unallocated)
_(0.00)           (0.00)         (3.63)         (0F.00)        (3.63)
Total                             0.00           1.88           8.87           0.00           10.75
(0.00)         (1.64)         (8.44)         (0.00)        (10.08)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services. services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local g3vernment
units.
- 103 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                  Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure     QCBS      QBS       SF8       LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category                        ____
A. Firms           3.80      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.80
(3.72)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.72)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.37      0.00      0.37
_  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.37)    (0.00)    (0.37)
Total   3.80      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.37      0.00      4.17
(3.72)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.37)    (0.00)    (4.09)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 104 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Contracts above threshold amounts shall be subject to prior review to ensure compliance with specified
Bank procurement procedures. Estimates of the numbers of these liable contracts by category are
summarized below. Contracts will be subject to post-review by Bank Supervision mission on a sample
selected on a random basis. As regards Consultant Services, contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals will be subject to prior review, but TORs in respect of all contracts,
irrespective of amounts, will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category       (US$ thousands)             Method                 (US$ millions)
1. Works                         >100                     NCB                       All
50 to 100                 NCB                      None
<50                      NS                      None
2. Goods                         >100                     NCB                       All
50 to 100                 NCB                       None
<50                     NS/IS                    None
3. Services                   Firns >100                 QCBS                       All
Consulting                    Firms <100                  QCBS                     TOR
Individuals >50     Section V of the Guidelines        All
Individuals <50     Section V of the Guidelines       TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 105-



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The Government of Pakistan will on-lend the proceeds of the Grant to then Government of Azad Jamnmu
and Kashmir, the Provinces of Balochistan and NWFP, and the Ministry of Environment, Local
Government and Rural Development, which will implement the project, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
1. Civil and field Works                   1.60                         90%
2. Vehicles, equipment and materials       0.65               100% of foreign expenditure,
100% of local expenditure (ex-factory
costs) and 70% of any local expenditure
for other amounts procured locally.
3. Consultants services, training and      4.09                         100%
education
4. Operating costs                         0.37          90% for FY01 and FY02, 70% for FY03
and FY04, and 45% thereafter
5. Community Developmn nt Funds             1.11                         95%
(includes stipends for honorary
Community Game Wardens).
6. Park Association Endowment              2.00                         100%
7. Unallocated                             0.26
Total Project Costs                        10.08
Total                                      10.08
- 106 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank will disburse against certified SOEs for all contracts for goods, works, equipment and consultant
services through firms for less than US$100,000 and for individual consultant contracts less than
US$50,000. The documentation relating to the transactions concerning claims under SOEs will be kept in
the office of the project implementation agencies, for inspection by the auditors and Bank supervision
missions.
Special account:
Under the Project, four US Dollar Special Accounts will be established, Fund A, Fund B, Fund C, and
Fund D, one per project implementing agency. Fund A will concern expenditures incurred by the Ministry
of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development at the Federal level. Fund B wvill concern
expenditures incurred by Balochistan components, Fund C NWFP components, and Fund D the AJK
components. The Bank has allocated US$40,000 as the initial deposit into Special Account A, and
US$200,000 for each of the other Special Accounts, Fund B, Fund C and Fund D. Half of the authorized
allocation for the initial deposit into each Special Account would be paid after receipt of proper withdrawal
applications. The rest of the allocated amount for the initial deposit will be paid when the total deposits
into a particular Special Account equal twice the amount of the authorized allocation. The project entities
are expected to submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis or when the expenditures from the
Special Account equals 20 percent or more of the amount of the authorised allocation in the Special
Account (whichever is earlier).
- 107 -



The Special Accounts will be used to finance all expenditures eligible for financing from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant and would not be used to finance ineligible expenditures such as duties, taxes and land
acquisition.
The Bank would not allow any withdrawals from the Trust Fund for deposit into a Special Account until
the respective implementing agency has appointed an Accounts Officer whose qualifications and experience
are acceptable to the Bank.
The parks are located in remote areas where the National Bank of Pakistan does not have branches, or
modem communication facilities; therefore, the Special Accounts cannot be located in the field and will
have to be opened in Quetta (Balochistan), and Peshawar (NWFP). To facilitate the flow of funds to the
field - in particular in Balochistan and NWFP - the Bank, as a special case will allow a reasonable amount
of advance from a Special Account to a Rupee account in the field, to be accounted for within a maximum
period of one month. If the field office does not provide the supporting documentation for claiming the
replenishments into its Special Account, the Bank reserves the right to stop further replenishments to the
Special Account.
Direct Payments:
Direct payment applications will be acceptable for large eligible amounts. The amount of a direct payment
withdrawal application should be more than 20 percent of the authorized allocation of the Special Account
of respective entity.
Retroactive Financing:
The Bank agrees to provide retroactive financing to each Province, as described below:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
signing of the Grant Agreement, except that: (i) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $20,000, may be made in respect of Schedule I of the Grant Agreement - Categories
(2)(a) and (3)(a) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2000;
(ii) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (2)(b) and (3)(b) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after July 1, 2000; (iii) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2)(c) and (3)(c) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2000; and (iv) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2)(d) and (3)(d) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2000;
(b) Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(b), unless and until AJK has signed a contract with the team of
consultants required by AJK for the purposes of the Project and selected in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c) Categories (1)(c), (2)(c) and (3)(c), unless and until Balochistan has signed a contract with the team
of consultants required by Balochistan for the purposes of the Project and selected in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d) Categories (1)(d), (2)(d) and (3)(d), unless and until NWFP has signed a contract with the team of
consultants required by NWFP for the purposes of the Project and selected in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
- 108-



Disbursements under LACI:
Initially, the project will not be eligible for disbursement using Project Monitoring Reports however,
following the first year of project implementation, i.e. after July 1, 2002, assessment of the project's
financial reporting can be undertaken to determine eligibility for PMR-based disbursements under LACI
guidelines.
Counterpart Funds:
The Government of Pakistan will ensure that all necessary counterpart funds required to imnplement the
project components will be made available on a timely basis.
- 109-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    36
First Bank mission (identification)                                           10/27,97
Appraisal mission departure                                                   12/10/97
Negotiations                                    03/12/2001                    03/14,2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/02/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development
Preparation assistance:
PDF Block B, Grant of $338,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Malcolm Jansen                    Senior Environment Specialist
Nadim Khouri                      Senior Agriculturist
Najib Murtaza                     Senior Environment and Natural Resource Specialist
Akhtar Hamid                      Principal Counsel, Operations
Mohammed A. Bekhechi              Senior Counsel
Barry Deren                       Economist
Rodney Jackson                    Wildlife Specialist
Salma Omar-Chowdhury              Social Scientist
Robert J. Saum                    Financial Management Specialist/LOAAS
Amanullah K. Malik                Disbursement Specialist
Anthony Byrne                     Regional Accounting and Audit Advisor
Hasan Saqib                       Financial Management Specialist
Naseer A. Rana                    Procurement Specialist
Nahid Khan                        Procurement Analyst
Fawad Mahmood                     Resettlement Specialist
Asger Christensen                 Senior Anthropologist, SASSD (SASES)
Zia Aljalaly                      Social Development Specialist, SASSD (SASES)
Afzal Mahmood                     Program Assistant
Yoshiko Masuyama                  Program Assistant
- 110-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Incremental Cost Analysis
C. Other
(i)    Final Report on Socioeconomic Aspects of the Protected Areas Management Project
(ii)    Community-Based Management of Protected Areas: A Model for the Future
(iii)   Rapid Assessment of Ecological Conditions of the Hingol National Park
(iv)   Botanical Aspects of the Protected Areas Management Project
(v)    Strategic Approach for Biodiversity Conservation in Three Protected Areas of Pakistan
(vi)   Cost Estimates for the Project
(vii)   A Brief History of Institutionalized Wildlife Conservation in Pakistan
(viii)  Monitoring Environmental Change in National Parks and Peripheral Areas by Means of
Fixed-Point Photography
(ix)   A Concept Proposal for the Development of Community-Based Field National Park Field Schools
(x)    Preliminary Description of Key Project Design and Sustainability Issues
*lncluding electronic files
- 111 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD          IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P049791        1999 POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND                               0.00      90.00                               0.00      77.17       0.77        0.00
P037835        1998 SOCIAL ACTION PRG II                                   0.00     250.00                               0.00     125.93       31.98       0.00
P037834        1998 NORTHERN EDUCATION                                     0.00      22.80                               0.09      18.44       13.10       0.00
P010500        1998 NATIONAL DRAINAGE PR                                   0.00     285.00                               0.00     188.29       86.73       0.00
P010501        1997 PVTSECTORGROUNDWA                                      0.00      56.00                               0.W0      38.66       37.20       1.66
P036015        1997 IMPR FIN REP &AUDIT                                    0.00      28.80                               0.00      20.56       16.99       0.00
P037827        1996 NORTHERN HEALTH                                        0.00      26.70                               6.41       6.22       14.41       7.53
P034101        1996 TELECOM REG & PRIVAT                                  35.00       0.00                              10.00      13.23       23.23      13.23
P039281        1996 GHAZIBAROTHAHYDROP                                   350.00       0.00                               0.00     117.63      100.33      51.94
P010478        1996 NWFP COMMUNITY INFRA                                   0.00      21.50                               0.00      11.00       13.23      12.48
P010482        1996 BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION & AGRI.               0.00      26.70                               0.00       8.97       10.51       3.17
P010481        1995 PUNJABFORESTSECTOR                                     0.00      24.90                               5.46       5.64       12.11       1.75
P010470        1995 FIN SECTOR DEEPENING & INTEGRATION                   216.00       0.0                              188.03      19.56     207.39       12.07
P010486        1995 NWFP PRIMARY EDUCATI                                   0.00     150.00                              27.36      36.95      74.90       46.14
P010458        1994 POWER SECT. DEV. PRO                                 230.00       0.00                              20.00      17.65      37.65        0.00
Total:      831.00      982.40                            257.35       705.90     680.53      149.98
-112-



PAKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               ABAMCO                         0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.0')   0.29    0.00    0.00
1995               AES Lal Pir                   35.20    9.50    0.00    0.00   35.2)    9.50    0.00    0.00
1996               AES Pak Gen                   17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88   17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88
1996               Atlas Inv Bank                 3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Atlas Lease                    4.21    0.21    0.00    0.00    4.21    0.21      0.00    0.00
0                 BRRIL                          0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.0D    0.24    0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         BRRIM                          0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995               BSJS Fund                      0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
1995               Bank of Khyber                 1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               CDCPL                          0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1993/97            Crescent Greenwd               0.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Crescent IBank                 9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96         D.G. Khan                      0.00    0.51     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51     0.00    0.00
1998               Engro Asahi                   14.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/95/97         Engro Chemical                 7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00    7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00
1996               Engro Paktank                  9.04    0.00    0.00    3.77    9.04    0.00    0.00    3.77
1990/91/96         FIIB                           2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Fauji Cement                  22.40    5.00    0.00    17.50   22.40    5.00    0.00   17.50
1995               First Crescent                 0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1994/96            First Leasing                  0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00
1995               First UDL                      0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1996               Gul Ahmed                     22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38   22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38
1988               Hala Spinning                  4.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/95            IHFL                           0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    o.ao    0.40    0.00    0.00
1992/96            JSCL                           0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.C0    0.27    0.00    0.00
1995               Kohinoor                      20.00    6.30    0.00   24.40   20.0       6.30    0.00   24.40
1994/95/97         Maple Leaf                     0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.C0    0.52    0.00    0.00
1985/92            Mari Gas                       4.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Muslim Comm Bank               2.81    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.E 1    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/94            NDLC                           4.92     1.25    0.00    0.00    4.S2    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Finance                   0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Leasing                   4.92     1.25    0.00    0.00    4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               PACRA                          0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.0Cl   0.10    0.00    0.00
1994               PI&CL                          2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         PILCO                          0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1983/84/94         PPL                            2.71    0.00    0.00     1.97    2.71    0.00    0.00    1.97
1965/80/82/87/91/94/9 Packages                    9.07    2.50    0.00     1.25    9.07    2.50    0.00    1.25
5                  Pakistan Service               6.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    6.0(10    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Pakistan Unit Tr               0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0 00    1.48    0.00    0.00
1995               Prudential                     0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.(0(    0.40     0.00    0.00
1991               RUPAFIL                        1.27    0.00    0.31     0.00    1.27    0.00    0.31    0.00
1992               Regent Knitwear                6.06    0.00    0.00    2.80    6.06    0.00    0.00    2.80
1994               Rupafab                        6.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.42    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Sarah Textiles                 0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00
1993/96
Total Portfolio:       263.35    51.54   20.31   193.95   252.13   51.49   20.31  178.92
Approvals Pending Commitment
- 113-



FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
- 114-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PAKISTAN: GEF-Protected Areas Management Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South       Low-
Pakistan      Asia  Income         Development dlamond-
1999
Pooulation, mid-year (millions)                        134.8      1.329     2,417                   Life expectan-y
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                       450        440       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        60.8        581       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
PoPulation (%)                                           2.4        1.9        1,9
Labot force (%)                                          2.9        2.3       23       GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                  capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty 1ine)
Urban Population (% of total population)                  36         28        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          62         62        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  91         75        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under S)                38         51        43                 Access to safe Nater
Access to improved water source (% of populationJ         60         77        64
Illitracvy % of population a.qe 15)                      55         46        39
Gross orimary enrollment % of school-age Dopulation)      74        100        96             -'Pakistan
Male                                                   101        110       102                    Low-income group
Female                                                  45         90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratlios
GDP (USS billions)                             19.7     40.2       62.2       58.2
Gross domestic investmenttGOP                  17.9     18.9       17.7       15.0
Exports ofqoods and services/GDP               10.7     13.9       16.1       15.2                      Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                      5.8     11.0       13.2       10.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     13.7     15.6       15.0       11.2
Current account balance/GDP                    -4.2     -3.4       -2.7       -3.8      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                           1.1      1.1        1.3        1.8          Stic    -  5             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 45.3     45.7       51.8       53.6      Saving
Total debt service/exports                     18.5     24.2       23.6       27.4
Present value ot debt/GOP                         ..       ..      41.1
Present value of debt/exports                    ..        ..    220.1           -
Indebtedne,.s
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   6.7       3.9      2.6        2.7        5.1                -Pakistan
GNP oer capita                        3.8       1.5     -1.4        0.3        2.9                    Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services         9.2       2.9     -5.7       -2.4        6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999       Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             2
Aqriculture                                    30.4     26.9       27.3       27.2     20
Industry                                       23.6     23.9       23.B       23.5      n *0
Manufacturing                                15.4      16.6       15.8      15.6       n
Services                                       46.0     49.2       48.9       49.4     -       94         55 e8 8
Private consumption                            83.8     72.2       75.5       78.4    -20
General qovernment consumDtion                 10.4     16.8       11.3       11.5                     G        -GDP
Imports of goods and services                  22.8     21.7       20.6       20.1
(average annual growth)                    1979-89  1989-99        1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     4.6      4.4        4.5        1.9    20
Industry                                        7.3      4.3        6.1        2.5
Manufacturinq                                 7.9       4.0        6.9       4.2     10.
Services                                        7.2      4.5        1.6        4.1
Private consumption                             4.2      5.0        0.1        6.3      0                      IL
General government consumption                 10.5      0.4        6.8       -5.1
Gross domestic investment                       6.5      2.2        9.6      -11.8    .10
ImDorts of qoods and services                   1.7      3.4       -5.6       -6.2              -Exports          CmportS
Gross national product                          6.6      4.0         1.0       2.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoarea with its income-qrouD averaqe. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 115-



Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         1
Consumer prices                                                                                   ...8577.8  5.7  15 
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.6      8.6        7.5      6.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                 ..    18.1       16.3     16.3             94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.8        -4.2     -2.6             - GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -7.7        -7.7     -6.1
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   4,634       8,433    7,527     15,000
Cotton                                        ..    930         126         2
Rice                                                 304        562      533      12,000
Manufactures                                  ..   3,312      4,866     4,538     9,000
Total imports (cif)                                  7,851     10,456    10,888     6.000.
Food                                          ..       ..    1,685      1,622
Fuel and energy                               ..   1,006      1,750     1,458     3,000
Capital goods                                 ..       ..    2,288      3,027        0
93  94  95  96  97  98   0
Export price index (1995=100)                   .       51        94        90
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      45        91       102                   U Exports     H Imports
Temns of trade (1995=100)                      ..    112          104       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               19T9    1989       i99T      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               2,107    5,577    10,017     8,838      0
Imports of goods and services               4,485    8,736    12,819    11,668
Resource balance                           -2,378   -3,159    -2,802    -2,850    -2
Net income                                   -233    -875    -2,330    -1,808
Net current transfers                       1,790    2,687      3,430    2,471     -4
Current account balance                      -820   -1,347    -1,702    -2,187    -6
Financing iems (net)                          515    1,347      1,554    3,441
Changes in net reserves                       305        0       148    -1,254     -
M.,mo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..   1,237       1,464    2,228
Conversion rate (DEC, locaIlUS$)              9.9     19.2       43.0     50.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        8,919   18,348    32,229    31,176
IBRD                                        339    1,428      3,262    3,175                    G: 1,390  X 3,175
IDA                                         751    1,915      3,732    3,857           F: 3,028
Total debt service                            658    1,841      2,743    2,743    |B 3.857
IBRD                                         57      147       381       400
IDA                                           9       30        70        81
Composition of net resourrceflows                                                                                   C: __ 1,s19 
Official grants                             146      381       175       194
Official creditors                          561      931       891     1,642       E: 10,550
Privatecreditors                             23      -12       306      -316
Foreign direct investment                    58      210       500       428                                     7
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..         ..       28                                  7,527
World Bank program
Commitments                                 139      746       250       808      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               105      471       606       683      B-bIA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         27       82       243       264      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     79      389       363       419
Interest payments                            39       95       208       217
Net transfers                                39      294       155       202
Development Economics                                                                                               l#lfll#
- 116 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31 282
68'                 65     ~ IZBEK TAJIK.                 .S~H 
PA KI STAN                                                                                                               160 TURKMENISTAN           ,)                      |  Z->    CUI;R S
T'ONATt~L PARK_    ..t
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                         /J
CHITRAL GOL, HINGOL, AND MACHIARA NATIONAL PARKS                                                                                                                                                               ./.... <.  '
NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       I /
AFGHA~~~~~           N.W.FP I
BUFFER ZONE BOUND2ARIES                                                                                                                       AGAITNInoo
a    VIUAOEs                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLAMIC
RIVERS AND STREAMS                                                                                                     RPO                                                              o,~.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                              OP IRAN 
ThssnosssprodusdbyheMopOesgnBn,oTIsWsdBask.n                |~-'                                                                                 |                                             JAlEAN}X/4
The pop,dor-oe,    byoI inoRons oth   o,Mp lhe  ,,iormo,pon                                                                                  /                                       4               7 U  f T. W^ -
-tlhs-eop.onoil,y,.onlh.p.i.Th.We,IdBr.konG,.osponly                                                                              30                              .
ocs7p1oseeof sboesdosi.s.                                                                                                                    'I0  N            '"'                                 /
71'                '                                                                                                                                                           PAKIST,~AIOWPA
CHIrTRLGOL aIo, rt|AR                                                         -HtNG L N
K,"                                                                                                                     /                             L.              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N DI A
HlNGOL NATIONAL PARK    SINDH
*;7  e W@</ XvXs \X z ,> 0                      Sti v. L   /                                                                      )                     ~~~~~~~~~) 5-25
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25
z \ < V < _ 2 >> /| _ $ \9 to _ < 9>F-i-                                             j                                                                                 3 --f  *           j           B; w.7r.   .   @> 70'  755
-K\y.                                                                                                     ng\tX 9 ,@t D ' ( $ XW S Xt' : - X :, MACHIARA
A  -5"                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL PARK
/v.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
--5-    -5".,                    >           -9,/-tA                   10Sz  ti ;jl;>}  gm7,,>; *i vAt: aXb;iicf n    Se (T        ',      10       t                         O,            S 0--
_ 71L30-                                                                                                _'d:i               ; t73Ne30eIf'
FEBRUARY 2001



