Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 28408 PAK
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Protected Areas Management Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated August 21, 2002
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 28408 PAK
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 2002, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
acting by its President (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of 
Page  2
the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund 
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements  continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank, which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, authorized the first replenishment of the 
GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 
94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis set 
forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution 
No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from  the GEF Trust 
Fund for funding the Project and said request having been approved in accordance with the 
provisions of the Instrument for Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund 
under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment of 
the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;
(E)
part of the Project will be carried out by Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), the 
Province of Balochistan (Balochistan) and the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) (the 
Beneficiaries) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will 
make available to the Beneficiaries part of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement 
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Beneficiaries.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans  of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as 
amended through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
Page  3
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 7.01 (k);
(viii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(ix)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(x)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(xi)
Article XI; and
(xii)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an Implementing Agency 
of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also 
include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph (q) is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Page  4
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AJK” means  the Territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir;
(b)
“Balochistan” means the Province of Balochistan, a political subdivision of the 
Recipient;
(c)
“Beneficiaries” means AJK, Balochistan and NWFP collectively; and 
“Beneficiary” means each and any of them individually;
(d)
“custodial community” means a village or other community settled in or around a 
Protected Area and dependent on the resources of such Protected Area for its livelihood;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means, in respect of the Special Account for MELGRD, 
Categories (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; in respect of the Special Account for AJK, Categories (1) (a), (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b), 
(5) (a) and (6) (a) set forth in said table; in respect of the Special Account for Balochistan, 
Categories (1) (b), (2) (c), (3) (c), (4) (c), (5) (b) and (6) (b) set forth in said table; and in respect 
of the Special Account for NWFP, Categories (1) (c), (2) (d), (3) (d), (4) (d), (5) (c) and (6) (c) 
set forth in said table;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means, in respect of the Special Account for MELGRD, 
the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to said 
Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; in respect of the Special Account for AJK, the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to said 
Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; in respect of the Special Account for 
Balochistan, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from 
time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and in respect of the 
Special Account for NWFP, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories;
(g)
“FY” or “financial year” means the Recipient’s financial year, covering the period 
July 1 through June 30;
(h)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to a custodial community for a Village-Level Investment Activity; 
(i)
“MELGRD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment, Local Government 
and Rural Development;
Page  5
(j)
“Micro-plan” means a village-level investment plan for improving resource 
management in a Protected Area and mitigating the impact on the livelihood of custodial 
communities of measures taken for that purpose; 
(k)
“NWFP” means the North West Frontier Province, a political subdivision of the 
Recipient;
(l)
“Park Association” means an autonomous not-for-profit institution to be 
established by each Beneficiary separately or by all Beneficiaries jointly under the Project to 
administer a Park Endowment; and “Park Associations” means all such institutions collectively;
(m)
“Park Endowment” means an endowment to be established by each Beneficiary 
separately or by all Beneficiaries jointly under the Project to assist in financing park operations 
and conservation and protection activities within a Protected Area;
(n)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association acting as an 
Implementing Agency for the Global Environment Facility and Azad Jammu and Kashmir, 
Province of Balochistan and North West Frontier Province of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(o)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(p)
“Protected Areas” means collectively the Machiara National Park in AJK, the 
Hingol National Park in Balochistan and the Chitral Gol National Park in NWFP; and “Protected 
Area” means each and any such park individually;
(q) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(r)
“Village-Level Investment Activity” means a specific activity or set of activities 
carried out by a custodial community under a Micro-plan using the proceeds of a Grant.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thirty-one thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 7,831,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement: (a) for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on 
account of withdrawals made by a custodial community under a Grant to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Village-Level Investment Activity in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is requested; (b) amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made by a Park 
Page  6
Association to meet the financing needs of the Park Endowment in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is requested; and (c) for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for carrying out the other activities under the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part D of the Project through MELGRD with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds and services required for Part D of the 
Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, shall cause the 
Beneficiaries to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of the Beneficiaries therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds 
and services necessary or appropriate to enable the Beneficiaries to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  7
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall make  a portion of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to the Beneficiaries in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures for purposes 
of carrying out their activities under the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.
 
The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the activities of the Beneficiaries under the Project 
shall be carried out by the Beneficiaries, pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall, with the participation of the Beneficiaries:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the  
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
Page  8
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than  June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of 
which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
Page  9
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period. 
Page  10
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
AJK, Balochistan or NWFP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that AJK, Balochistan or 
NWFP will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Recipient; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, 
or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that Division 
of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 1.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Page  11
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
   ECONOMIC
   ECDIV-05-634
   Islamabad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
   INTBAFRAD
   248423 (MCI)
   Washington, D.C.
     64145 (MCI)
Page  12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Islamabad, 
Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Waqar Masood Khan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment
  Facility
By /s/ John Wall
Country Director, Pakistan
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent)
% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Civil and field works:
              90%
      (a) AJK
373,000
      (b) Balochistan
561,000
      (c) NWFP
304,000
(2) Vehicles, equipment and materials:
            100% of foreign
            expenditures, 100% of
            local expenditures
Page  13
           (ex-factory cost)
           and 70% of local 
           expenditures for other
           items procured locally
      (a) MELGRD
  14,000
      (b) AJK
134,000
      (c) Balochistan
218,000
      (d) NWFP
136,000
(3) Consultants’ services, training and
      education:
           100%
     (a) MELGRD  
   320,000
     (b) AJK
   883,000
     (c) Balochistan
1,062,000
     (d) NWFP
   913,000
Page  14
Category
Amount of GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent)
% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
  (4) Incremental operating costs:
              90% for FY01 and
              FY02, 70% for FY03
      (a) MELGRD 
  10,000
             and FY04, and 45%
              thereafter
      (b) AJK
  80,000
      (c) Balochistan
119,000
      (d) NWFP
  80,000
(5) Grants:
               95%
      (a) AJK
450,000
      (b) Balochistan
  87,000
      (c) NWFP
329,000
(6) Park  Endowment:
                100%
     (a) AJK
518,000
     (b) Balochistan
518,000
     (c) NWFP
518,000
(7) Unallocated 
204,000
________________
               TOTAL
   7,831,000
==============
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means: (i) the salaries and allowances of 
staff of MELGRD and the Beneficiaries appointed to posts created after July 1, 2000, and 
recruited in accordance with a project staffing plan acceptable to the Bank for purposes of the 
Project; (ii) allowances for community game watchers recruited after July 31, 2001 for purposes 
of the Project; and (iii) operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment and field offices 
used in carrying out the Project.
Page  15
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
 
except that: 
(i) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (2) (a) and (3) (a) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after July 1, 2000; (ii) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2000; (iii) withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (2) (c) and (3) (c) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after July 1, 2000; and (iv) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) (d) and (3) (d) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2000;
(b)
Categories (1) (a), (2) (b) and (3) (b), unless and until AJK has signed a contract 
with the team of consultants required by AJK for the purposes of the Project and selected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c)
Categories (1) (b), (2) (c) and (3) (c), unless and until Balochistan has signed a 
contract with the team of consultants required by Balochistan for the purposes of the Project and 
selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(d)
Categories (1) (c), (2) (d) and (3) (d), unless and until NWFP has signed a 
contract with the team of consultants required by NWFP for the purposes of the Project and 
selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)
Grants for Village-Level Activities under the first three Micro-plans in each 
Protected Area unless and until the Bank has received and approved the relevant  Micro-plan; 
and 
(f)
Category (6) unless and until the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that the relevant Park Association and the relevant Park Endowment has been established 
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank as to the Park Association’s and the Park 
Endowment’s structure, powers and functions.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 
equivalent each for employment of individual consultants; (c) training and education; (d) 
incremental operating costs; and (e) grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for 
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
Page  16
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars four separate special deposit accounts, 
one each for the MELGRD, AJK, Balochistan and NWFP, in the National Bank of Pakistan, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited 
into said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first each of the Project Management 
Reports referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement or Section 3.02(b) of the Project 
Agreement, as the case may be, and (ii) a request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis 
of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02(b) of this Agreement or Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement, as the case may be, 
accompanied by a request from the Recipient for withdrawals on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of a Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement or 
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement, as the case may be;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement or Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the Project 
Agreement, as the case may be, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for any Special 
Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
Page  17
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of  Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) in respect of MELGRD’s Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $40,000, to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $20,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $80,000; (ii) in respect of AJK’s Special Account, an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $100,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
Page  18
exceed the equivalent of $400,000; (iii) in respect of Balochistan’s Special Account, an amount 
equivalent to $200,000, to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $100,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $400,000; and (iv) in respect of NWFP’s Special Account, an amount 
equivalent to $200,000, to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $100,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $400,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into said Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to said Categories, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
Page  19
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all withdrawals 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the respective 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for deposit 
into a Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in said Special Account, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $120,000 in respect of MELGRD’s Special Account, $300,000 in respect of AJK’s 
Special Account, $300,000 in respect of Balochistan’s Special Account and $300,000 in respect 
of NWFP’s Special Account.
Page  20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in achieving active sustainable conservation of 
globally and nationally significant habitats and species in Pakistan through a series of integrated 
activities aimed at engaging custodial communities in the management of the Protected Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Protected Area Bio-diversity Conservation Management
1.
Integration of custodial communities in park management and conservation in each 
Protected Area, inter alia, through: (a) community orientation, mobilization and participation; (b) 
park-community interaction assessment; and (c) preparation of Micro-plans and financing of 
Village-Level Investment Activities through Grants.
2.
Formulation of a detailed park management plan and strategy for each Protected Area.
3.
Improvement of infrastructure in each Protected Area.
4.
Improvement of park operations in each Protected Area, inter alia, through: 
(a) improved surveillance, enforcement and monitoring measures; (b) assessment of current 
threats to protected species; (c) park boundary demarcation and control; and
(d) bio-diversity monitoring.
5.
Carrying out of habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment measures in each Protected 
Area, including: (a) the preparation of baseline habitat/land cover maps, as appropriate; (b)
the preparation of baseline wildlife and habitat inventories; (c) the undertaking of park-specific 
research studies; and (d) the undertaking of appropriate improvement works.
6.
Carrying out of campaigns for public environmental awareness and outreach.
Part B
:  Sustainability of Park Management
Promotion of the long-term sustainability of the Project through the establishment of a 
Park Association and a Park Endowment for each Protected Area separately or for all Protected 
Areas jointly.
Part C
: Human Resource Development 
Carrying out of staff and community training programs to build the Beneficiaries’ 
capacity for improved park management and bio-diversity conservation.
Part D
: Project Coordination and Monitoring
1.
Promotion of national level coordination through the carrying out of: (a) in-country 
workshops for sharing information and lessons learned from the planning and implementation 
Page  21
exercises conducted in the Protected Areas; (b) study tours; and (c) a study to formulate a 
constitution, operational procedures and personnel guidelines for the Park Associations.
2.
Conducting of Wildlife Surveys and Assessment Workshops for the Beneficiaries’ staff.
3.
Carrying out of a study to design and implement a legal, policy and institutional 
framework for community participation in the management and monitoring and evaluation of the 
Protected Areas. 
4.
Provision of assistance in developing national and provincial procedures for identifying 
gaps in current protected areas coverage.
5.
Carrying out of a tourism development and marketing study for the Protected Areas.
6.
Carrying out of an independent review and impact assessment of the Project.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
Page  22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: National Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
to attract national bidders.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are 
willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;
(iv)
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(v)
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
(vi)
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;
Page  23
(vii)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank;
(viii)
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;
(ix)
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates (CSR);
(x)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
(xi)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; 
and 
(xii)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or 
any other bidder.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International or National Shopping
Equipment, vehicles and materials, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $987,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Force Account
Field works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing 
$50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out 
by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for purposes of any activities carried out by custodial 
communities under Part A.1 of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  24
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants for services for research and special studies under Part A.4 of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  25
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply, except that, before 
proposals are invited, the relevant terms of reference shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review, and such modifications shall be made thereto as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Page  26
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Each Beneficiary shall, not later than September 30, 2002, and for purposes of guiding 
and monitoring the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, establish, and thereafter 
maintain, a Provincial Project Steering Committee, consisting of senior representatives of 
government agencies responsible for land, forestry, environment, planning, finance, agriculture 
and local government, and other such agencies as are deemed relevant for coordination of 
activities in the relevant Protected Area, and representatives of conservation Non-Government 
Organizations and specialist groups.
2.
The Recipient shall, not later than September 30, 2002, and for purposes of ensuring 
consistency in project approaches, disseminating lessons and experiences and providing overall 
guidance on wildlife policy and priorities, establish a Federal Steering Committee, consisting of 
senior representatives of MELGRD and the Recipient’s Planning and Development, Economic 
Affairs and Finance Divisions, and representatives of each Provincial Project Steering 
Committee referred to in paragraph 1 above and key national level conservation 
Non-Government Organizations.
3.
Each Beneficiary shall, not later than September 30, 2002, establish and thereafter 
maintain a Project Management Team, consisting of: (a) a Project Manager, who shall be a park 
staff, as team leader, together with other park staff as needed; (b) a Park Planner, a Social 
Planner, and two Social Mobilizers selected  from the consultants’ team appointed in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (c) representatives of the 
custodial communities.
4.
The Recipient and each Beneficiary shall ensure that:
(a)
key staff involved in carrying out the Project will not be transferred during the 
Project implementation period without the prior concurrence of the Bank; and
(b)
without limiting the generality of Section 9.05 of the General Conditions, all 
vehicles financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will be used exclusively for 
the purposes of carrying out the Project.
5.
 Each Beneficiary shall, for the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, develop and furnish 
to the Bank for its concurrence, not later than October 31, 2002:
(
a)
procedures and criteria for preparation and implementation of Micro-plans;
(b)
standard format for a memorandum of understanding between a local community 
and park management authorities for implementation of Micro-plans;
(c)
procedures and eligibility criteria for financing Village-Level Investment 
Activities;
(d)
procedures and principles for channeling resources to village conservation 
committees for sanctioned Village-Level Investment Activities; and
Page  27
(e)
conflict resolution and grievance redress procedures for managing conflicts 
between custodial communities over resource use rights, and between custodial communities or 
individuals and park management authorities. 
6. 
Each Beneficiary shall develop and furnish to the Bank for its concurrence, not later than 
December 31, 2002, procedures and criteria for preparing and implementing the park 
management plan included in Part A.2 of the Project.
7.
The Recipient, in consultation with the concerned Beneficiary, shall, for the purposes of 
Part B of the Project: 
(a)
not later than December 31, 2003, develop and furnish to the Bank for its 
concurrence detailed procedures, criteria, by-laws, legal instruments and other documentation for 
the establishment of a Park Association or Park Associations and a Park Endowment or Park 
Endowments; and
(b) 
not later than September 30, 2004, implement policy and legal measures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, required to allow the Park Association or the Park Associations and the 
Park Endowment or the Park Endowments to operate in accordance with its or their by-laws.
8.
Each Beneficiary shall ensure that, with respect to the Park Endowment to be established 
by it separately or jointly with the other Beneficiaries under Part B of the Project:
(a) 
during the Project implementation period or the first three years of the Park 
Endowment’s operations, whichever is longer, the selection and appointment of each member of 
the Board of Directors of the Park Association responsible for the Park Endowment will be 
subject to the Bank’s no-objection;
(b)
the Board of Directors of the Park Association responsible for the Park 
Endowment will exercise close control over the use of the Park Endowment;
(c)
the Park Endowment will follow the Bank’s procurement and financial 
management guidelines; and
(d)
during the Project implementation period or the first three years of the Park 
Endowment’s operations, whichever is longer, the Bank will be promptly furnished with the Park 
Endowment’s annual audit reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested.
9.
To assist with the implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, the Recipient and the 
Beneficiaries shall furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 of each year, starting June 30, 
2003, for its review, a preliminary annual work plan, including updated Project cost tables, 
training and contracting plans and other matters agreed with the Bank; and shall thereafter 
implement the final work plans taking into account the Bank’s comments. The preliminary work 
plan for the first project year shall be submitted not later than September 30, 2002.
10.
The Recipient shall develop and furnish to the Bank for its concurrence, not later than 
October 31, 2002, draft terms of reference for the study included in Part D.3 of the Project. 
Page  28
11.
The Beneficiaries shall not undertake any activities which will undermine the 
bio-diversity conservation and participatory management objectives of the Project. For the 
purposes of this paragraph, such objectives shall be deemed to be so undermined if there is:
(a)
an increase in the level of encroachment or displacement of persons  such as to 
materially and adversely affect the objectives of the Project;
(b)
a disruption of migrations of ecologically important species, such as a net loss of 
wildlife corridors; or 
(c)
fragmentation or degradation of habitats or disturbance to ecosystems and 
species or changes in the legal status of any of the Protected Areas such as to materially and 
adversely affect (i) the viability of ecologically important ecosystems and species, or (ii) the 
strategy of increased collaboration between custodial communities and park management 
authorities.
12.
The Beneficiaries shall ensure that any schemes for the voluntary relocation of persons 
from within and around the Protected Areas, will be prepared and implemented in accordance 
with principles and procedures agreed with the Bank, and after prior approval of the Bank.
13.
The Beneficiaries shall ensure that any desired changes in the ways in which local 
populations exercise customary tenure rights in the Protected Areas will not be imposed on them 
but will emerge from a consultative process, satisfactory to the Bank.
14.
AJK shall not carry out, or permit to be carried out, any logging operations in the 
Machiara National Park.
15.
Balochistan declares its commitment to the preservation and protection of the ecology of 
the Hingol River estuary and, to this end, shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would be likely to have an adverse environmental impact thereon, unless and until all measures 
necessary or appropriate to avoid or mitigate such impact have been taken.
16.
Balochistan shall, not later than September 30, 2003, implement appropriate measures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to restrict illegal trawler fishing within the Hingol National Park marine 
area.
17.
The Recipient and the Beneficiaries shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to enable 
them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 2004, reports integrating the results of  the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
Page  29
shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
