                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001457



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-28408)



                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.831 MILLION
                      (US$ 10.08 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

          GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                     FOR A

              GEF-PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                   June 8, 2010




Environment, Water Resources, and Climate Change Sector
Sustainable Development Department
South Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2001)

                     Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee (Rs.)
                              US$ 1.00 = 57.58

                               FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 ­ June 30
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJK      Azad Jammu and Kashmir
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community based organization
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FPA      Fund Protected Area
FY       Fiscal Year
GA       Grant Agreement
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GEO      Global Environmental Objective
GOP      Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IP       Indigenous Peoples
IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
ISR      Implementation Status Report
LAC      Local Advisory Committee
MELGRD   Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development
M&E      Monitoring and evaluation
MOE      Ministry of Environment (formerly MELGRD, Ministry of Environment, Local
         Government and Rural Development
MTR      Mid-term review
NGO      Non-government organization
NWFP     North West Frontier Province
OD       Operational Directive
OP       Operational Policy
PA       Protected Area
PAMP     Protected Areas Management Project
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
VCC      Village Conservation Committee
WVCC     Women's Village Conservation Committee




                                      ii
                                             Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                                         Country Director: John Wall
                                           Sector Manager: Gajanand Pathmanathan
                                    Project Team Leader: Malcolm A. B. Jansen
                                        ICR Team Leader: Valerie Hickey

                                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                    Protected Areas Management Project




                                                         CONTENTS


Data Sheet

A. Basic Information.......................................................................................................... vi

B. Key Dates ...................................................................................................................... vi

C. Ratings Summary .......................................................................................................... vi

D. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................................. vii

E. Bank Staff ..................................................................................................................... vii

F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... ix

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...................................................................... xii

H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................... xii

I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................xiii

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design........................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................... 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 31

                                                                 iii
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 39
MAP: IBRD 31282




                                                        iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Protected Areas
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                          Management Project
Project ID:             P035823                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-28408
ICR Date:               06/14/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 GOP
Original Total
                        USD 10.1M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 10.1M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environment
 Department of Tourism, Wildlife, Archaeology and Fisheries
 Department of Wildlife
 Environment, Livestock, Wildlife, Forests and Tourism Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/17/1994     Effectiveness:             11/19/2002        10/25/2002
Appraisal:            12/01/1997     Restructuring(s):                            07/13/2006
Approval:             04/24/2001     Mid-term Review:           07/22/2005        09/01/2005
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       56                   60
General public administration sector                                    5                   10
General transportation sector                                           7
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   7                     5
Other social services                                                  25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                           20                   40
Environmental policies and institutions                                20                   20
Export development and competitiveness                                 20
Participation and civic engagement                                     20                   20
Rural policies and institutions                                        20                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Asif Faiz                             John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Gajanand Pathmanathan                 Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:       Malcolm A. B. Jansen                  Najib Murtaza
ICR Team Leader:           Valerie Hickey
ICR Primary Author:        Valerie Hickey




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The development objective of the project is to achieve the sustainable conservation of
globally and nationally significant habitat and species within three protected areas
(Chitral Gol National Park in NWFP, Hingol National Park in Balochistan and Machiara
National Park in AJK) in Pakistan by the active involvement of local communities. This
objective is to be specifically achieved through the following interventions: (i) Protected
Area Biodiversity Conservation Management, which includes the following sub-
components: (a) integration of custodial committees in park management and
conservation; (b) preparation and implementation of park management plans; (c)
improvement of park infrastructure; (d) improvement of park operations; (e) baseline
resource inventory, research, habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment; and (f) public
awareness and outreach; (ii) Sustainability of park management; (iii) Human resource
development; and (iv) Project coordination and monitoring.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values          Target Years
                 Reduction in loss of species and vegetation in the three protected areas by end of
Indicator 1 : project period (i) improvement in cover density (ii) selective single species
                 numbers increased
                                                                                (i) CHITRAL -
                                            (i) Increase in
                                                                                markhor population
                                            cover density;(ii)
                                                                                from 370 to 800 (ii)
                                            markhor
                                                                                MACHIARA -
                                            population in
                                                                                musk deer (35 to
                                            Chitral; musk deer,
                                                                                72), Grey Goral
                                            grey goral, western
                                                                                (100 to 384),
Value                                       tragopan and
                                                                                Western Tragopan
(quantitative or                            monal pheasant
                                                                                (75 to 122) and
Qualitative)                                populations in
                                                                                monal pheasant
                                            Machiara; and
                                                                                (238 to 436);(iii)
                                            Ibex,Urial and
                                                                                Hingol-Ibex (1400
                                            Chinkara
                                                                                to 2000),Urial (350
                                            population in
                                                                                to 500) and
                                            Hingol stable at
                                                                                Chinkara (150 to
                                            end of project,
                                                                                200).
Date achieved                               11/01/2001                          10/15/2009
Comments         Cover density was considered diffucult to measure and attribute to a project of



                                                 iii
(incl. %        relatively short duration. Changes in population numbers were measured as
achievement)    these provided a more direct and useful means to measure the impact of the
                project.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                         Target Years
                 Reduction of unregulated grazing and timber/fuelwood collection within core
Indicator 1 :
                 zones of protected areas by 20% by mid-term and 40% by end of project
                                                                                CHITRAL: 90%
                                                                                grazing reduction
                                                                                ;90% fuelwood
                                             Reduction of
                                                                                reduction and 100%
                                             unregulated
                                                                                reduction in timber
                                             grazing and
                                                                                collection
                                             timber/fuelwood
Value                                                                           HINGOL: 45%
                                             collection within
(quantitative or                                                                livestock reduction
                                             core zones of
Qualitative)                                                                    (26,000)
                                             protected areas by
                                                                                MACHIARA - 61
                                             20% by mid-term
                                                                                % of pasture lands
                                             and 40% by end
                                                                                under controlled
                                             of project
                                                                                grazing regimes;
                                                                                and 40% reduction
                                                                                in fuelwood use
Date achieved                                11/01/2001                         10/15/2009
Comments
(incl. %         All targets for threat reduction were exceeded during the life of the project.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Reduction in poaching by 30% by mid-term and 60% by end of project
                                                                                Based on sample
                                             Reduction in                       site assessment
Value                                        poaching by 30%                    poaching reduced
(quantitative or                             by mid-term and                    by 95% in Chitral;
Qualitative)                                 60% by end of                      100% reduction in
                                             project                            Machiara and 60%
                                                                                reduction in Hingol
Date achieved                                11/01/2001                         10/15/2009
Comments
(incl. %         Reduction of poaching targets were exceeded.
achievement)
                 Number of village conservation committees effectively implementing
Indicator 3 :
                 conservation related outcomes
Value                                        57 village                         51 village
(quantitative or                             committees and                     conservation
Qualitative)                                 cluster community                  committees


                                                iv
                                           organizations                       effectively
                                           functioning in all                  implementing
                                           three national                      conservation
                                           parks                               activities and
                                                                               cluster community
                                                                               organizations
                                                                               established in
                                                                               Chitral, Machiara
                                                                               and Hingol
Date achieved                               11/01/2001                         10/15/2009
Comments
                 a few villages were clustered for implementation simplification but all
(incl. %
                 households were covered through the 51 VCCs
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Changes in incomes of households affected by restrictions in resource use
                                                                                Based on sample
                                                                                site assessment
Value                                       10% change in
                                                                                incomes increased
(quantitative or                            households
                                                                                between 0-20% of
Qualitative)                                incomes
                                                                                sampled VCC
                                                                                members
Date achieved                               11/01/2001                          10/15/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Additional non-project resources channeled to Village Committees in project
Indicator 5 :
                 area for conservation and development activities
                                                                                i) MACHIARA -
                                                                                PKRs. 525.09
                                                                                million for
                                                                                community
                                                                                activities
                                                                                (irrigation, health,
                                                                                skills devt); (ii)
Value
                                                                                HINGOL - PKRs
(quantitative or                            none
                                                                                20 million for
Qualitative)
                                                                                community activity;
                                                                                and . (iii)
                                                                                CHITRAL - PKRs
                                                                                4.3 million for
                                                                                sewerage systems,
                                                                                irrigation channel
                                                                                rehab. etc (iii)
Date achieved                               11/01/2001                          10/15/2009
Comments
                 This was an indicator added during the project ot reflect the effectiveness and
(incl. %
                 usefulness of VCCs beyond the project.
achievement)




                                                 v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         GEO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    10/19/2001       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  2    05/10/2002       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  3    10/30/2002       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  4    01/21/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.10
  5    06/11/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.20
  6    12/22/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.46
  7    06/17/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.65
  8    12/06/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.81
  9    06/06/2005      Unsatisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              1.22
 10    11/19/2005      Unsatisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              1.88
 11    05/05/2006       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.23
 12    08/01/2006       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.86
 13    03/09/2007       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.65
 14    08/14/2007       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.27
 15    04/02/2008       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              4.90
 16    11/28/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              5.49
 17    03/19/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              7.72
 18    09/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              8.30


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      To reallocate funds from
                                                      existing unutilized funds
                                                      available in the Ministry of
                                                      Environment (MOE) and
 07/13/2006       N                S           2.73
                                                      Balochistan budget line items
                                                      to consolidate ongoing activities
                                                      and provide additional funds to
                                                      AJK.




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

a.     Country Background. With its dramatic geological history, broad latitudinal
spread and immense altitudinal range, Pakistan spans a remarkable number of the world's
broad ecological regions. These range from the coastal mangrove forests of the Arabian
Sea to the spectacular mountain tops where the western Himalayas, Hindu Kush and
Karakoram ranges meet. This variety of habitats also supports a rich variety of different
species which contributes to the overall biological diversity (biodiversity) of the country.

The project context was determined by the principal role that natural resources
play in driving Pakistan's rural economy and in providing livelihoods to a majority
of its population. The Government of Pakistan (GOP) was aware that the pursuit of
rapid, decentralized economic growth, as was then happening, might occasion the loss of
natural resources on which economic development ultimately depended. As such, they
acknowledged the need to marry better resource stewardship to the execution of its
development strategy. In the absence of environmental sustainability, economic policies
would further widen inequalities and force rural people and others to exploit biodiversity
at rates that would not be sustainable. As a result, processes such as deforestation,
overgrazing, soil erosion, and salinity would escalate and have increasing and immediate
implications for the nation's development in general and for the survival of rural
communities in particular.

b.      Sector Background. Natural resources ­ land, forests, fisheries, mineral wealth
and tourism potential ­ featured prominently in Pakistan's development prospects. At the
same time, government capacity to sustainably manage these resources was limited.
Deforestation threatened the forests and was the primary environmental issue of the day.
The resource conservation that did exist was chiefly donor-executed, uncoordinated,
unaccountable to the Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural
Development (MELGRD) and often implemented with the provincial governments
playing only minor supporting roles. MELGRD was restructured during the project
period to become the Ministry of Environment (MOE), but it retained oversight for the
project throughout its lifespan.

The primary issues in the sector involved the rapid loss of quantity and quality of
natural habitat leading to the depletion of species, populations and genetic diversity.
Habitat loss, fragmentation and degradation ­ caused by deforestation for commercial
and agricultural purposes, grazing of rapidly increasing livestock populations, fodder
collection and soil erosion ­ resulted in a high rate of extinction. Deforestation had
reduced natural forests (coniferous, riverine and mangrove) to just 4% of the land area,
and remaining woody biomass was declining at a rate of 4-6% annually.

Species were also adversely affected by poaching and other factors that reduce
population viability. Hunting, for which there continues to be a strong tradition in



                                             1
Pakistan, had seriously affected several charismatic species, including threatened bird
populations, such as the Houbara Bustard. Over-fishing and rampant and unregulated by-
catch problems were underlying causes of species loss in the marine environment.

Although the GOP had established environmental agencies at both national and
provincial levels, these were relatively new, lacked clarity over implementation
responsibilities, faced a severe shortage of properly trained personnel and had little
enforcement capacity. The protected area (PA) system, in particular, was an apt
example of these weaknesses. Of the 189 PAs in Pakistan at that time, most existed only
on paper. Management plans were few and far between, and where they did exist they
were almost invariably technically deficient. Further, management of PAs was widely
seen as a policing matter with little or no active participation of local communities.
Physical demands on existing staff and equipment levels were also high ­ for example,
the ratio of area conserved per staff member reached up to 7,537 ha per ranger in
Balochistan.

The lack of adequate baseline information on natural resources in PAs was another
factor that hindered biodiversity conservation. No inventories of plant and animal
species had been undertaken. This restricted an accurate analysis of populations of key
species, which meant that it was impossible to capture changes in their numbers over a
period of time or to understand the effect of conservation initiatives. Awareness building
mechanisms for increasing public support toward conservation issues were minor. They
were mostly driven by non-government organizations (NGOs) who targeted narrow
audiences in ad hoc manners.

c.      Existing Government Initiatives. GOP's strategy on conservation of biodiversity
had largely been defined by the establishment of an institutional framework, development
of legal and policy infrastructure, and the establishment of a PA system.

The institutional framework was divided into two parts. At the federal level, the
Government, specifically the Ministry of Environment (MOE), was responsible for
overall policy and planning, inter-provincial and territorial coordination and
international liaison for environmental concerns. Wildlife and Protected Areas issues
are coordinated through its National Council for Conservation of Wildlife, established in
1974. Its office of the Inspector General of Forests conducts all policy, coordination and
liaison matters related to forests, rangeland and wildlife management.

Actual conservation and management of biodiversity remained the responsibility of
the provincial administrations. Institutions at this level varied in terms of structure,
budgets and implementation capacity. In North-West Frontier Province (NWFP),
Balochistan and Northern Areas, wildlife continues to be administered through the
Forestry Department's Wildlife Division. In Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), this
responsibility falls to the Department of Tourism, Wildlife, Archaeology and Fisheries. In
Sindh, the Wildlife Conservation Board oversaw all wildlife management and
conservation issues. After Punjab, Sindh had the highest budget for wildlife management
(Rs.29 million in FY 1998), followed by NWFP (Rs.21 million).



                                            2
The federal government's principal policy instrument on biodiversity conservation
is the National Conservation Strategy, developed in 1992, which called for
(i) developing a national policy on wildlife management; (ii) strengthening the protected
area system; and (iii) improving the legal and policy architecture to promote
conservation. This built on the updated Forestry and Wildlife Policy of 1991 that had
emphasized the need to reduce deforestation, conserve forests and biological diversity,
promote social forestry and contain environmental degradation in watersheds and
catchment areas. In 1999, the Government completed its first Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan that set out a strategy for action under thirteen main components which
corresponded to the Articles of the CBD: planning and policies, legislation, identification
and monitoring, in-situ conservation, ex-situ conservation, sustainable use, incentive
measures, research and training, public education and awareness, environmental impact
assessment, access issues, exchange of information, and financial resources.

This policy framework was operationalized in legislation enacted at the provincial
level, including through the Sindh Wildlife Protection Ordinance (1972), the Punjab
Wildlife Act (1974), the Balochistan Wildlife Protection Act (1974), the NWFP Wildlife
Act (1975), the Northern Areas Wildlife Protection Act (1975), the Azad Jammu and
Kashmir Wildlife Preservation Act (1975), and the Islamabad Wildlife Ordinance (1979).

Pakistan's protected area system consisted of ten national parks, 82 wildlife
sanctuaries, 83 game reserves and 14 private unclassified reserves. In FY1998, all
provincial governments combined planned to spend Rs. 170 m managing their respective
PAs. Often, these budgets were considered fungible and the first to be reduced in the face
of economic stresses.

d.      Country Assistance Strategy. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1999)
identified the deterioration of Pakistan's natural resources as a key concern, and rough
estimates attributed partial costs of environmental damage and pollution to the economy
at about 3% of GDP per year. The conservation of Pakistan's natural resources, including
biological diversity, was named an urgent priority. The Protected Areas Management
Project (PAMP) was fully consistent with the CAS and indeed complemented it by filling
an important niche in the existing program of activities, particularly in the natural
resources sector.

e.      Rationale for Bank Assistance. Endangered species and threatened critical
habitats were most likely to continue to decline in the absence of the project. GOP lacked
the resources to invest in biodiversity conservation despite its professed stake in
conserving natural resources because of their key role in sustaining rural livelihoods and
driving national economic opportunities. Staff skills would remain weak, and
communities would remain excluded from decision making about the very natural
habitats that formed the source of their livelihoods.

Moreover, the World Bank had a long-standing and productive partnership with
Pakistan since the early 1990s, mainly through supporting programs aimed at



                                            3
stewarding natural resources through improved land and water management. Based
on this, the Bank's involvement was a logical continuation of such partnership, and was
instrumental to the decision to pilot this ambitious conservation project in three provinces
to serve as a catalyst to mobilize and reorient the Government's conservation programs
towards co-management with local communities who were most immediately at risk
should these resources disappear.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project development objective (PDO) of the project was to achieve the sustainable
conservation of globally and nationally significant habitat and species within three
protected areas in Pakistan (Chitral GoI National Park in NWFP, Hingol National Park in
Balochistan and Machiara National Park in AJK) through the active involvement of local
communities.

This objective was to be specifically achieved through the following interventions:
(a) integration of custodial committees in park management and conservation;
(b) preparation and implementation of park management plans; (c) improvement of park
infrastructure; (d) improvement of park operations; (e) baseline resource inventory,
research, habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment; and (f) public awareness and
outreach.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) included slightly inconsistent project
performance indicators (one set in the main text and a less explicit one in the Project
Design annex). This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) uses the
indicators as presented in the main text, since this version was agreed during negotiations
and was subsequently used, with some modifications, for Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs), a Global Environment Facility (GEF) evaluation and for overall assessment of the
outcome of the project.

These key outcome indicators for measuring the achievement of the project development
objective was presented as: Reduction in loss of species and vegetation in the three
protected areas by the end of the project period, by showing (a) an improvement in cover
density, and (b) an increase in numbers of an indicator species. Intermediate indicators
included (i) Reduction of unregulated grazing and timber/fuelwood collection within core
zones of protected areas by 20% by mid-term and 40% by end of project; (ii) Reduction
in poaching by 30% by the project's mid-term and 60% by its end; (iii) Number of village
conservation committees (VCCs) effectively implementing conservation related
outcomes; (iv) Changes in incomes of households affected by restrictions in resource use;
and (v) Additional non-project resources channeled to VCCs in the project area for
conservation and development activities.

This final intermediate indicator was added, and subsequently monitored, only towards
the end of the project period. In terms of the outcome indicator on improvement in cover
density, this was subsequently considered to be too difficult to measure, and more



                                             4
importantly, impossible to attribute to the project within its life span. As such, it was
considered that monitoring the changes in selected species was a more accurate measure
of the health and conservation status of the individual protected areas. As a result, this
indicator (along with the intermediate indicators that monitored any reduction in
timber/firewood collection, grazing and/or poaching) was considered sufficient to
measure progress towards achievement of the project development objective.

The two additional indicators that appeared in the Annex of the PAD, namely (i) active
Village Conservation Committees achieving reductions in wildlife and management
conflicts within PAs and buffer zones; and (ii) local awareness of linkages between PA
management, biodiversity conservation and community/household welfare were tracked
using existing intermediary indicators, namely reductions in unregulated grazing and
timber/fuelwood collection and reductions in poaching. These twin indicators provided a
measurable and verifiable means of assessing the effectiveness of VCCs in the
management of conflicts within PAs, and their understanding and appreciation of the
explicit linkages between biodiversity conservation and local welfare.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The original objective was not modified and the associated outcome targets remained
unchanged throughout the duration of the project. However, the Grant Agreement (GA)
was amended following the Mid-term Review (MTR) to extend the closing date from
December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2009. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the GA was
further amended in order to reallocate funds from existing unutilized funds available in
the Ministry of Environment (MOE) and Balochistan budget line items to consolidate
ongoing activities and provide additional funds to AJK. Additional details are provided in
Section 2.2 (Implementation).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

a.      Primary target group. Primary stakeholders included affected communities that
were resident in and around the PAs who made use of resources within core and buffer
zones. In Machiara, these numbered around 2,800 households, in Chitral Gol about 1,900,
and in Hingol around 750. Among this primary target group, women, poor households
and indigenous people (e.g. the Kalash community in Rumboor valley, bordering Chitral
Gol PA) were to be paid special attention to ensure that the project provided particular
benefits to them due both to their dependence on resources in the parks and buffer zones,
and their vulnerability.

b.      Other key stakeholders. Other important stakeholder groups consisted of NGOs,
community-based organizations (CBOs), governmental agencies, and the private sector.
NGOs were an important stakeholder group, particularly in the Chitral Valley, because of
their active involvement in biodiversity conservation and social mobilization. Other
potential stakeholders included the private sector, particularly individuals and business
concerns that had a direct or indirect interest in biodiversity conservation, nature tourism



                                             5
and resource extraction. The benefit of involving private businesses and individuals,
particularly with regard to ensuring sustainability, was a major reason for including them
as important stakeholders. There were also foreign-funded development projects in the
area, including the Chitral Area Development Program and the Environmental
Rehabilitation Program, which were semi-governmental in nature, and with whose
project implementation units PAMP engaged.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1. Protected area biodiversity management. This component consisted of
six sub-components, as follows:

·   Process framework for participation of custodial communities in park management
    and conservation. Since the exact social impacts of village level investments were
    only be identified during project implementation, the Process Framework was to
    ensure that mitigation of any negative impacts deriving from restrictions on access by
    local communities to resources in the PAs would be based on participatory resource
    mapping involving the affected stakeholders, and on their consent regarding the scale
    of the restrictions and the type of mitigation measures to compensate any loss of
    income. This was to comply with the Bank OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement (OP
    4.12 today) and OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10 today).

·   Formulation of detailed park management plan and strategy. The project planned to
    strengthen park management through integrated activities leading to the development
    and implementation of a five-year detailed Management Plan and Strategy for the
    three parks. Since a draft management plan existed for Machiara, the entry point for
    project-related management support was at the updating stage, but other management
    planning actions such as training in park planning and management, data gathering,
    field surveys, research studies and community-based socioeconomic assessments and
    base-map preparation were still relevant and supported under the project.

·   Improvement of park infrastructure. In order to improve the management of the PAs,
    the project was to provide limited support for the improvement of park infrastructure,
    including trails, bridges, trekking huts, camp sites with outdoor toilets, cooking
    facilities, wildlife observation posts, small road maintenance works and repairs, water
    and waste disposal facilities, signage and patrol huts. The type of infrastructure works
    would vary from PA to PA and would not include all of the above facilities in each.

·   Improvement of park operations. Depletion of species populations by hunting and
    poaching represented the primary threat to biodiversity in all PAs. Toward this end,
    the project planned to support the installation of surveillance measures, increase law
    enforcement, improve monitoring of species, habitat conditions and disturbances as
    well as enhance community appreciation of biodiversity and participation in
    conservation.




                                             6
·   Baseline resource inventory, research, habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment.
    In order to achieve the project objectives, an understanding and appreciation of the
    underlying ecological and human systems and processes operating within and around
    each PA was required to carry out baseline resource inventory, research and other
    management activities. In all three project PAs, there was a paucity of information on
    the ecological and socioeconomic issues, making it necessary to mount a serious
    effort to generate critical baseline information required for PA management and
    results monitoring.

·   Public environmental awareness and outreach. Biodiversity conservation can only be
    sustained if the will exists at all levels of society to act in a concerted and organized
    manner to ensure environmentally sensitive resource use and management. The
    project planned to implement an awareness campaign targeted at politicians, leaders
    of industry, foreign hunters, the military, the Pakistan Coast Guard, local schools and
    communities to build this will. Nearby urban centers also represented important
    elements in securing public support, as exemplified by the City of Karachi (the source
    of many hunters and fishermen who visited Hingol whether for legitimate or unlawful
    purposes). Environmental awareness and outreach programs needed to be very site-
    specific, so that the activities developed highlighted the special significance of the
    particular PA, its role in conserving global biodiversity and the importance of
    community-based management and conservation in achieving both short-term and
    long-term objectives and goals.

Component 2. Sustainability of park management. In order to ensure long-term
sustainability beyond the life of this GEF grant, the project promoted public/private
cooperation in the achievement of long-term biodiversity conservation by assisting with
technical assistance and limited cost-sharing arrangements, private sector activities,
income-generation activities (e.g., improved agricultural output activities, ecotourism,
and user entrance fees) and nonprofit fund-raising activities. Given the limited tourist
visitation levels for the foreseeable future given the security situation, the project
proposed the establishment of a non-profit entity, the Park Association, to capitalize and
manage a trust fund to complement efforts to strengthen institutional capacity,
community participation and enforcement, surveillance and park management in order to
ensure sustainability.

Component 3. Human resource development. The project was to support a strong
training program to build capacity within the requisite wildlife departments for improved
park management. Elements of the training program ranged from "on-the-job" training by
international specialists to workshops and study tours covering a range of topics from
legal and policy reform to tourism management. The Smithsonian Institution was to be
requested to conduct a special 5-7 week training course in Conservation Biology and
Wildlife Management based on the many workshops it had held in the region. The project
was also to support diploma and certificate courses as well as Master's degree courses in
Pakistan (2 slots per PA) and overseas (one slot).




                                             7
Component 4. Project coordination and monitoring. Although the field-level
execution of the project was to be the responsibility of the respective Provincial
Governments through their wildlife or forestry departments, some level of coordination
would be necessary at the federal level. The most important aspect of this coordination
role was facilitating the development of policy and legislation relating to protected areas
and ensuring that standardized systems were established at each level. The project was to
provide support for a full-time Facilitator and short-term National Legal Specialist to
provide guidance and advice on wildlife policy and legal reform. In addition, technical
assistance services were to be available for the design of the Park Association and to
conduct a Tourism Feasibility Study and Strategy for the three parks.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not modified during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

Ongoing supervision missions, confirmed by the Mid-Term Review, revealed (a) a glut of
savings in the Balochistan budget line item due to slow start up of activities that reduced
spending on consultants, (b) the dearth of international consultants available to develop
an ecotourism strategy at the federal level under the supervision of the MOE, and (c) the
need to avoid community return to exploitation of PA natural resources in a post-
earthquake situation and to re-affirm their continued engagement in conservation. As a
consequence the following changes were made: (i) an extension of the closing date until
December 31, 2009; and (ii) a reallocation of funds from the MOE and Balochistan
budget line items mainly to consolidate activities in AJK related to community revolving
funds and rural micro-enterprises.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Following the Millennium Summit of 2000 and the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable
Development, poverty reduction had become the overriding focus that guided
international assistance to conservation. Accordingly, international support for
biodiversity conservation was increasingly driven by social and economic objectives, and
especially by its touted ability to contribute to poverty reduction. This project was
premised on this model and was well prepared in light of the available information, at
that time, on maximizing development and conservation gains.

a.     Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.

Establishing clear linkages between economic benefits and resource conservation. The
benefits of long-term sustained economic resource flows from conservation such as
through tourism and employment in PA management were found to be essential to ensure
sustainability in several conservation projects at the time, particularly in the India



                                            8
Ecodevelopment Project. This project also highlighted that support for alternative
livelihoods and provision of alternative means to meet benefits derived from PAs was
contingent on cost sharing by local communities. This lesson was incorporated in the
proposed project at the PDO level by focusing on community co-management and at the
sub-component level by establishing reciprocal agreements with communities regarding
continued limited resource use that provided them alternative financial flows to mitigate
their loss of resource access in PAs.

Building understanding and consensus among stakeholders. A key lesson from other
projects in the sector illustrated the need to build consensus among stakeholders on
project objectives, activities and roles. In the proposed project, mechanisms for consensus
building created at the preparation stage ­ such as the local advisory committees ­ were
built upon and continued during the implementation phase.

Planning for long term sustainability. Providing start up funding, appropriate asset
management arrangements and assessing the legal framework for the establishment of a
trust fund were important lessons that had begun to appear in the sector. At the time of
project preparation, conservation trust funds (such as the Bhutan Trust Fund for
Environmental Conservation) were beginning to take shape internationally. Experience
with these funds highlighted the value of having reliable funding available during the
initial stages of a trust fund to begin investing in activities before investment income
becomes available. PAMP planned its activities around the notion of establishing a Park
Association early in the project that would be capitalized with $2 m in seed funding.
However, the Association was established late in the project and the opportunity to bridge
its beginnings until it was flush with investment income was squandered.

b.       Design flaws. Allocating equal budgets to each park ­ despite disparate political
environments, level of apparent support and status and origin of threats to the resource
base ­ did not provide the project with sufficient flexibility to meet the specific needs of
each park. Similarly, the focus on establishing a trust fund as the key mechanism to
ensure the financial sustainability of the community co-management architecture and the
park infrastructure more broadly, coupled with the failure to operationalize this idea early
in the project, burdened the project with a relatively unrealistic component from the very
beginning. Moreover, the size of the trust fund, at US$2 million, was a gross
underestimation of what would be needed to earn the investment income that could
realistically continue project activities in each park.

In addition, the monitoring framework developed at the appraisal stage of the project
(Annex 1 of PAD) was vague and had to be modified during projects negotiations
(revised monitoring framework in main text of PAD) and later in the project
implementation to enable a more realistic assessment of implementation progress. The
revised monitoring framework included a specific indicator "reduction in loss of selected
threatened species in the three protected areas" that enabled a more realistic assessment
of success of the project in the conservation of the globally important species (and
indirectly their habitats) in the three protected areas. This replaced an earlier indicator on




                                              9
forest cover. The monitoring of the revised indicators was regularly undertaken and
reported.

c.      Risk assessment. Risk identification was both comprehensive and objective, and
resulted in an overall rating of Substantial. It covered generic risks from community
participation and ownership to lack of financial resources in the long term, but also
highlighted early on two risks that could have derailed the project. The project team
worked with the responsible parties to affect policy change prior to the approval of the
project to reduce the likelihood of these risks undermining the project, and continued to
monitor the situation throughout the life of the project.

The first of these concerned a part of the Chitral Valley that was disputed by the ex-
Mehtar (chief) of Chitral. To mitigate the risk, the project worked with the GOP to
change the law gazetting Chitral National Park such that (i) private lands within the park
boundaries remained under their current status, and (ii) without prejudice to the objective
of biodiversity conservation, the rights of the owners of private lands within the Park
would be fully respected under the laws of Pakistan. Until such time as these changes
became law, this risk became a reality, slowed project activities and made community
consensus all that much more difficult at the start-up of the project.

The second such risk concerned ongoing logging activities in Machiara National Park
financed by an AJK parastatal ­ Azad Kashmir Logging and Sawmill Corporation.
However, following a rapid review of the practice by the project team, the provincial
government terminated all logging operations as of December 31, 1999, prior to the
commencement of the project.

Notwithstanding the project's commendably frank assessment of risk, there was one
glaring admission. While the Park Association trust fund was designed to mitigate the
risk of a lack of available resources to sustain project outcomes and continue to engage
local communities, it was poorly designed and the risk of it failing ­ given the potentially
fragile political and financial environment in Pakistan and the lack of trust fund
experience in similar environments ­ was never assessed.

2.2 Implementation

Key factors that affected implementation included:

The project's new approach to PA management, based on increased community
consultation and participation, increased ownership and capacity building, but
slowed implementation considerably as government staff took on new roles and
engaged a larger number of stakeholders than they had traditionally.

The implementation of a significant portion of the project through provincial
governments fostered (even required) more rapid capacity development than donor-
executed conservation projects typically required in Pakistan, but their limited
conservation and project management experience remained a constraint to


                                            10
implementation at the initial stages of the project. However, with improved capacity
building and training, implementation progressed rapidly in the second half of the project.

The implementation of a significant portion of the project through provincial
governments vaccinated the federal authorities against learning lessons at the site-
level that could have been applied more broadly to community co-management projects
throughout Pakistan. The decision to move significant aspects of project implementation
to the provincial governments was deliberate on account of the very weak capacity at the
federal level and the understanding that overall responsibility for management of wildlife
and forests rested with the provincial governments.

Provincial authorities in Balochistan were slow to buy into the objectives of the
project, leading to slow start up of activities, a lag in disbursement, and a delay in
consolidating village institutions.

The remote location and difficult field conditions, particularly related to security
concerns, affected oversight and supervision. This also resulted in limited
communications between the three parks and between each park and the federal
government. These conditions also severely limited World Bank supervision and the
recruitment of adequate technical assistance to guide activities.

The massive earthquake in AJK in 2005 resulted in a sudden shift in provincial and
community priorities away from long term resource stewardship and towards more
immediate survival concerns. However, the strong community institutions created by the
project in the earthquake-affected areas enabled the effective and timely mobilization of
post earthquake assistance and support to the affected communities and ensured that
long-term conservation goals were not compromised.

The slow start to the project, partly based on issues arising from the proposed
development of a hydropower facility in Hingol, affected staff morale and focused
management attention on problems in some areas rather than on outputs and outcomes
in others, resulting in some activities being delayed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The outcome indicators in the Appraisal PAD (Annex 1) were relevant but not
precise, and changed over the life of the project. The most precise indicators (in the
main section of the PAD) were developed and agreed during project negotiations, and
modified further during early project implementation to allow for more accurate tracking
of effectiveness of conservation management, monitoring of village community
institutions and improvements in household incomes. These indicators were then
monitored regularly during the project period.

The most precise indicators relate to the reduction of external pressures and changes in
population of selected species, based on a weak threat analysis and incomplete
environmental baseline information. Other indicators particularly those relating to VCCs,



                                            11
referred to unspecified levels of improvement, though they were backed by strong data on
livelihoods.

M&E is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Internal and external monitoring and
reviews largely took place as scheduled based on the revised monitoring framework and
indicators refined and developed during early project implementation. The quality of
biodiversity and socio-anthropological M&E was raised to international standards with
the assistance of a number of expert NGOs (e.g. WWF, IUCN). However the absence of
a complete biodiversity baseline at the start of the project meant that considerable effort
was needed to establish and refine baseline indicators during the early period of the
project. Moreover, in order to reduce dependence on external TA for scientifically sound
M&E, PA patrol and monitoring staff required considerably more field training than
given to ensure accurate detection, analysis and estimation of species abundance.
Nonetheless, the team was able to assess implementation progress by systematically
tracking current numbers as part of supervision and they reported regularly on them
through the Implementation Status Reports.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

a.      Safeguards compliance. The project complied with World Bank safeguard
policies indicated in the PAD: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); (ii) Involuntary
Resettlement (OP 4.12); and (iii) Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10). Although the Forestry
(OP 4.36) and Natural Habitats (OP 4.04) policies were not triggered at the time of
approval, the project applied the principles of both safeguards.

Environmental Assessment. Though the project recognized that some of the community
investments and park infrastructure activities may have environmental impacts, these
were considered to be clearly small in scale and narrow in scope. While, there was no
overriding framework with an assigned budget for environmental impacts' mitigation and
management, the participatory framework for custodial communities in park management
and conservation that was designed and implemented in the three protected areas ensured
that park investments adequately identified and addressed such impacts.

Involuntary Resettlement. A Process Framework to mitigate against restricted access to
resources in the three PAs was made a sub-component under component 1. As such it had
clear budgetary and institutional arrangements, and was successfully prepared and
implemented in each of the three parks. It was also included in the project's legal
covenants.

Indigenous Peoples. As spelled out under OD 4.20, a separate Social Assessment was not
mandated. Nonetheless, the project carried out a stakeholder assessment during project
preparation to identify and engage potentially project affected peoples in and around the
parks. However, despite the presence of indigenous peoples (IPs) in the project areas, an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) to prescribe demographic, institutional and
legal framework for including IPs in the project was not prepared. The IPDP was
necessary to comply with the OD (and OP 4.10 that supplanted the OD in March 2005).



                                            12
Nonetheless, the project complied with the spirit of the policy, particularly by
recognizing IP rights of access to parks and protected areas and their equitable
participation in benefits from development of natural resources on lands owned, used or
occupied by them. The project also worked to solicit broad community support for
proposed activities and IP Village Conservation Committees (VCCs) had full access to,
and decision-making power over, the natural resources they relied upon.

Natural Habitats and Forestry. Because the project affected ­ for the better ­ the
management of natural habitats and natural forests (not commercial plantations), the
spirit of these policies was applied in each of the three project sites. In addition,
community investments were disqualified where they proposed conversion of critical
natural habitat or commercial forestry.

b.      Fiduciary compliance. The project mostly failed to comply with financial
management requirements with the main weaknesses/noncompliance being in respect to
(a) weak FM capacity with lack of/or quick turnaround of accounting staff; (b) poor
maintenance of books of accounts/records, (c) delays in release of counterpart funds, and
(d) failure to submit timely acceptable audited financial statements. The failure to submit
audit reports in accordance with the required timeframes also resulted in temporary
discontinuation of disbursements for Balochistan and AJK. Although it was initially
designed that the project could potentially move to FMR (Financial Monitoring Reports)
based disbursement after one year from inception of the project, this was not considered
appropriate as most FMRs were still received late and contained deficiencies. These
issues generally continued till the end of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Unfortunately, because the trust fund component of the project was not fully operational
at the time of project closure, there remains a real urgency to identify additional co-
financing for the trust to make it viable in the long term. While VCCs were largely
dependent on park budgets (in a quid pro quo fashion where they participate in park
management and engage in sustainable use practices in return for park support to village
infrastructure and other activities) during the project period to refrain from returning to
unsustainable resource use, each of the three parks require follow-on support to
consolidate the very real gains made during the implementation of this project.

Some follow-on support has already been secured from the provincial governments. For
example, in both NWFP and AJK, project activities have been extended beyond the
project closing date until June 30, 2010. In addition, the provinces have prepared PC1s
(project proposals) and submitted them to the MOE to support a consolidated project
proposal that would enhance federal funding to the three project PAs. MOE is in
discussion with the Ministry of Planning about securing this funding. This funding would
support the technical assistance necessary for continued engagement of park authorities
with the VCCs, which is particularly important given that significant funds remaining in
the revolving accounts of the VCCs that could provide a valuable resource to sustain
community interest and participation in conservation into the future.



                                            13
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Project development and global objectives remain relevant in Pakistan, regionally
and globally. The threats to Pakistan's biodiversity remain high and natural resources
continue to play an essential role in the country's growth-oriented economic strategy.
The Bank's proposed CAS (2010-2013) focuses on, among other things, providing
support that strengthens the environmental and social sustainability of development,
particularly to support pro-poor growth. This builds on the approach taken by the project
in protecting the resource base on which rural communities depended for their livelihoods
and for opportunities to attract investment.

The relevance of the project's objectives was high. The objectives comply with the
GEF Operational Strategy in the following respects: (i) priorities were country driven and
the selection of sites followed a participatory evaluation process to determine biodiversity
value of PAs according to biogeographic representation, socio-economic considerations,
degree of threat and feasibility of intervention; (ii) the project aimed to leverage long
term financing through the establishment of an endowment fund; and (iii) the project
targeted nationally, regionally and globally important biodiversity contained with forest,
semi-arid, mountain and marine ecosystems.

The relevance of project design was high with respect to: (a) protecting the three
national parks; (b) strengthening voice and customary rights of neighboring communities;
(c) strengthening provincial capacity to steward natural resources and manage conflict
with local communities; and (d) transferring international conservation practices to
Pakistan.

The relevance of project implementation was high, though it suffered from inflexible
sequencing which meant that the short timeframe of the project, especially when taking
account of the difficulties of social mobilization and institutionalization, meant that the
VCCs were not fully mature enough in at least one of the parks to be self-sustaining at
the end of the project, particularly since the suite of microfinance activities intended to
nurture the VCCs were not introduced until late in the project.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

Project objectives were achieved to a large extent. Being of a clear innovative nature,
outcomes of the project provided useful lessons, particularly in the area of local
institutional development and community co-management. The handling of unexpected
situations, particularly the failure of Balochistan to engage with the project, the
earthquake in AJK and the larger security situation, were managed in a positive way that
ensured that the project's GEO was met.
More specifically, the project made significant contributions towards achievement of the
project objectives in the following areas:



                                            14
y   Protection of key forest areas in the three parks. For example, in (i) Chitral Gol, there
    was a 90% reduction in grazing and fuelwood reduction and a 100% reduction in
    timber collection; (ii) in Hingol, there was a 45% reduction in livestock grazing in the
    park; and (iii) in Machiara, 61 % of pasture lands were successfully put under
    controlled grazing regimes and there was a 40% reduction in fuelwood use.

y   A significant increase in selected threatened species. For example, in (i) Chitral Gol ­
    the markhor (Capra falconeri) population increased from 370 individuals at the start
    of the project to more than 800 individuals, a significant increase in an endangered
    species; (ii) Machiara ­ the number of Musk deer (Moschus chrysogaster), grey goral
    (Naemorhedus goral bedfordi), western tragopan (Tragopan melanocephalus) and
    monal pheasant (Lophophorus impeyanus) individuals increased from 35 to 72, 100
    to 384, 75 to 122 and 238 to 436 individuals respectively, well above the baseline;
    and, (iii) Hingol ­ the Ibex (Capra sibirica hemalayanus) population increased from
    1400 to 2000 individuals, the Urial (Ovis orientalis vignei) from 350 to 500, and the
    Chinkara (Gazella bennettii) from 150 to 200. This was helped by a significant
    improvement of the existing biodiversity monitoring systems with participation of the
    local communities. It was also complemented by a reduction in poaching by 95% in
    Chitral Gol, 100% in Machiara and 60% in Hingol.

y   Increased support for protected areas in the project area, especially among local
    communities who hitherto only consumed resources from the park. At the end of the
    project, 51 village conservation committees were effectively implementing
    conservation activities in Chitral Gol, Machiara and Hingol. Their support was based
    in part on the increased emphasis on environmental education and capacity building
    of local communities regarding biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of
    natural resources, and in part on the up to 20% improvement in village incomes based
    on park support. The VCC institutional structures have been effective and useful
    beyond park management activities, as has been demonstrated by their ability to
    secure significant additional resources (equivalent of US$7.3 million) from other
    donors and NGOs for community development. It also resulted from the successful
    implementation of an integrated approach to management, biodiversity conservation
    and sustainable use of protected areas that includes collaboration and complementary
    work between conservation and consumption agendas, in close interaction with local
    communities and stakeholders;

y   Successful implementation of research and management projects, coupled with
    demonstration plots, aimed at key management needs. Each park has developed
    community-based monitoring guidelines that could enable the continued and regular
    monitoring of selected species populations, reductions in pressures on PA resources,
    as well as other proxies for community participation. In addition, the project has
    resulted in the development of performance indicators for the management of PAs in
    Pakistan, indicators that can be used more extensively in the country.




                                             15
3.3 Efficiency

As required for a full-sized GEF project, an incremental cost analysis was done during
the project preparation. No formal economic analysis was completed for project
implementation. However, the cost-effectiveness of park management under the project
was comparable with that elsewhere in the region. (See Annex 3 for details.)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall PDO/GEO outcomes are rated moderately satisfactory. The PDO/GEO
remains highly relevant. Most planned outputs and additional relevant outputs added
during implementation were delivered efficiently and cost effectively, at least in two of
the three provinces. Government counterparts (initially in AJK and NWFP, and later in
Balochistan) have demonstrated and maintained commitment supported by continuity in
project management staff. The consultation process supporting community ownership
has been effective, indicated by the strong and functional community structures that have
been established in the three parks. Institutional capacity development and staffing has
been positive, with a renewed commitment by two of the three provincial governments to
maintain park staff numbers beyond the life of the project. Awareness creation has been
exemplary with policy makers, clergy, media, school children, and local communities
having a good understanding of the linkages between conservation and the sustainable
maintenance of local agriculture and ecological systems. The management of the three
parks have been substantially improved, which is manifested by the substantial (in most
cases over two fold) increases in populations of key and threatened species in these areas.
Over 750,000 hectares of biodiversity rich habitat is being effectively managed in the
three parks, with enhanced management interventions, surveillance and community
participation. The shortcomings rest in the mixed success achieved at the federal level
with engaging MOE, and in the delay of the project to activate the proposed mechanism
to ensure long term financial sustainability of the protected areas.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project specifically targeted women in each park, and provided support for the
establishment of Women Village Conservation Councils (WVCCs) to meet cultural needs
and promote women's empowerment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Government agencies engaged with the local community at all levels. The project
established local infrastructure to give local communities and non-government actors a
voice in decision-making over natural resources in and around each park. This
institutional interface is invaluable for continued conservation. Moreover, the



                                            16
infrastructure has reduced park-people conflict as a result of the move towards
participatory management of park resources.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

There were no other significant outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There was no formal beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop held.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk that the PDO and GEO outcomes will not be sustained is assessed as
moderate. Few PAs in the world are self-financing, and park funding generally relies on
a mix of sources. Government budgetary support to PA management in general and to
the three parks in particular was insufficient in the past and recent improvements in their
management has relied heavily on resources provided through the project. Since
continued international support to the parks is threatened by the recent destabilization in
security in these provinces, mechanisms for sustaining the PDO and GEO have to be
supported within the existing institutional and financial constraints that operate in these
provinces. To this end, the provinces have made specific efforts to ensure that project
gains are sustained. Two of the provinces have extended the project period by six
months with their own financial resources and committed efforts are underway to obtain
federal funding to continue to provide oversight and technical support to the parks to
build on, and consolidate achievements made under the project.

Specific risks to development outcomes are linked to the following factors:

The sustainability of this project rests on the trade-off between local income
enhancement opportunities and the costs and effort incurred in restricting their own
use of natural resources in the PAs. Communities admit that this trade-off is fragile,
and its sustainability is predicated on some level of continued investments flowing to
communities to compensate them for restricted access. While the proposed mechanism ­
the Park Association trust fund ­ to sustain project interventions is not operational as of
present, the community assets created under the project and the substantial financial
resources available in the VCC revolving accounts, can continue to provide supplemental
incomes to local communities and ensure their active participation in conservation of the
park environment into the future.

Although limited, some attention was paid to the legal and policy base of
participatory and co-management processes of PA decision-making. Though
legislation was recently passed in AJK which allows for sustainable use of resources
within PAs by custodian communities, and legislation now recognizes the participation of



                                            17
communities in Chitral Gol and Hingol national parks, their empowerment and continued
involvement cannot be taken for granted. Nonetheless, all three Project Directors are very
confident that conservation activities in their respective parks will continue despite the
closure of the project because of the strong and functioning community structures that are
in place and the strong commitment within the respective wildlife departments to
continue to engage communities in conservation of the park resources into the future.
Moreover, the VCC infrastructure has been found useful beyond park management
activities (e.g. in the case of the aftermath of the 2005 earthquake) in being able to
manage and oversee significant additional financial resources from other donors. As a
result, the VCCs will likely remain in existence in the medium to long term.

Staff positions have been regularized in two of the three parks, providing some level
of comfort that capacity of provincial authorities to manage the parks will not disintegrate
after project closure. In NWFP, about 80% of the project staff positions have been
approved by the Government and discussions are ongoing in AJK to do the same. In the
third park, Hingol, all thirty nine project contracted staff positions have been approved by
Government and are in position. An additional 20 new staff positions in the field are
anticipated to be approved in the next fiscal year. The presence of sufficient staff in the
parks is a critical factor in ensuring that the GEO and PDO are sustained.

Nevertheless, the real biodiversity outcomes achieved provide more stable
populations within each park that will help absorb some of the expected increase in
resource use without endangering the GEO. The significant build up of populations of
key animal species within the three parks, the solid co-management architecture that is in
place, the substantial funds available in VCC revolving accounts in support of their
continued engagement in conservation, and strengthened institutional management
capacity of project staff is likely to be adequate to sustain the GEO and PDO over the
medium to long term.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was designed according to best practice at the time, but the Bank effort to
ensure quality at entry was mixed and had significant shortcomings. Strengths included
facilitating the selection of highly relevant objectives, encouraging a leading role for
local communities and resource users and supporting active provincial government
involvement. The revolutionary nature of the project may also have led to inadequate
attention being paid to sustainability at the time of project preparation. Significant
shortcomings in assessing sustainability continued to hamper implementation during the
life of the project. The quality of monitoring framework at project approval and lack of a



                                            18
comprehensive baseline prevented a full assessment of the impact of the project.
Shortcomings in realistically assessing project readiness for implementation, leading to
flawed site-selection, was a very real shortcoming, especially in Balochistan province
where no buy-in to the project existed, but there were ongoing land tenure conflicts. The
team's failure to adequately deal with problems identified prior to effectiveness, in
particular land rights in Chitral Gol ­ meant that implementation got off to a rocky start
and these problems reoccurred during the early life of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Actions taken by the Bank during supervision were mostly appropriate, timely and
adequate, with some areas of notable achievement. Critical risks ­ such as with the lack
of progress in Balochistan or the earthquake in AJK or threats to the integrity of the park
in Balochistan ­ were appropriately flagged and addressed in a timely manner through
relevant channels, even if resolution was not always immediately forthcoming. The task
team made routine visits (when security permitted) to Chitral Gol, Machiara and Hingol
and to the Ministry of the Environment offices and successfully followed each visit with
detailed aide-memoires that flagged actions for follow-up. The team was also ready to
engage the relevant expertise (e.g. legal) when problems arose that required such
expertise. The team effectively raised issues affecting the project to management's
attention and management responded actively and speedily to issues raised. These
interventions had succeeded in effectively addressing problems that arose.

The team's ratings of GEO and IP were based on realistic assessment of the ground
situation. The team was very proactive in resolving implementation lapses in the project,
as was the case in helping move the project from "unsatisfactory" to "satisfactory" status
in 2005/2006, through a very structured action plan to deal with the serious shortcomings
of the Balochistan component, and then actively following up to ensure that these were
resolved in a timely and comprehensive manner. The downgrading of the GEO to
"marginally satisfactory" status in 2008 was based on a realistic assessment of the
potential for the Fund for Protected Areas (FPA) becoming an effective and timely
instrument for financing of the three protected areas at the closure of the project, on
account of the delay of GOP to mobilize adequate co-financing for the FPA.

The team adopted the monitoring indicators to allow for more accurate tracking of
impacts on species and reduction of threats on the three protected areas to compensate for
the weak monitoring framework at design. The mid-term review (MTR) was well-timed
and addressed key issues with quality inputs, particularly in its frank assessment of the
failure of activities in Balochistan. In addition, the country team was involved in the
project despite its relative small size in the overall country portfolio. Nonetheless, the
task team did continue to rely on the poorly designed idea of the trust fund to ensure
financial sustainability and continued community engagement.




                                            19
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Except for project activities in Balochistan and the failure of the project's proposed
mechanism to ensure long term financial sustainability through the Park Association, the
Bank made considerable implementation progress in a very difficult environment, where
security concerns, remoteness of locations and difficult terrain were impediments to
providing effective supervision and oversight. This was particularly true at the park level,
though less so at the central level where project activities were given less weight than the
park activities.

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

At the beginning, federal level coordination through MOE was very weak. In the first
few years of the project, high staff turnover led to loss of institutional memory,
ineffective management and inconsistent commitment to the project. Upon transfer of
responsibilities to the Inspector General of Forests, this coordination role improved
significantly, though too late to fully implement some of the activities that were housed at
this level (e.g. the ecotourism study and the Park Association trust fund). However, the
government was slow to absorb lessons from the pilot sites and apply them to the
protected area system more broadly.

Moreover, weak financial management continued throughout the project, despite using
the Government's own financial and accounting systems, and despite moving to an FMR-
based disbursement system after 2007. FMRs were still received late and contained
deficiencies.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

MOE, originally tasked with implementing the other three components, showed a
reluctance to implement project activities in a timely fashion. As a result, and given
MOE's continued intransigence, the attention paid to the activities under Component 1 in
the three provinces began to predominate.

Borrower commitment to field activities varied sharply between the various provincial
institutions involved in implementing Component 1. In two Provinces ­ AJK and NWFP
­ the authorities displayed strong commitment from the beginning. Activities occurred
early and by the end of the project, park infrastructure and co-management architecture



                                            20
was very solid. However, in the third, Balochistan, key stakeholders lacked commitment
and successive supervision missions had to exert substantial pressure for change to even
kick-start project activities. Nonetheless, by project end, co-management models were up
and running in Hingol though the park hugely underspent its original budget, some of
which was transferred to other budget line items.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Given the failure of the government in Balochistan to engage in a timely manner with
park activities coupled with the reluctance of MOE to coordinate the project in a
consistent manner or implement their own-managed activities in the early stages of
project implementation, the borrower performance rating is only saved by the excellent
commitment and actions of the NWFP and AJK governments. In addition, when the
federal government responsibilities were transferred from MOE to the Inspector General
of Forests, these activities finally began to take shape and improve towards the end of the
project.

6. Lessons Learned

An effort should be made to ensure that key stakeholders share the vision of park
management and protection before project effectiveness and throughout project
implementation. Decisions about PA management often elicit strong opinions from a
range of stakeholders. To build and maintain a common understanding across national,
provincial and local levels, PA managers must engage stakeholders in discussions of key
goals and strategies before project effectiveness. Otherwise stakeholder support is often
just congealing at the end of the project when investments and resources dry up too soon
to cement the new support. In AJK the park's commitment to building local awareness of
project activities, the importance of biodiversity to local and national economies, and the
role of communities in co-management established the groundwork for a very successful
project (this was not guaranteed; during the Bank's first supervision mission, local
communities in AJK prevented the mission from visiting the park) and for the
government to extend project activities beyond the Bank's involvement.

Projects which aim to move away from a conflictual model of PA management to a
co-management model must take action from an early stage to ensure the realistic design
and early activation of mechanisms to secure financial sustainability of the improved
environmental management model to maintain faith with community co-managers who
are not in a position to give up resource use without compensation in some form (e.g.
through the VCC investments).

Co-management models must be housed within larger entities that can provide
technical assistance and support. The VCCs were confederated at each park and linked
to local government, NGOs and related rural support agencies through Local Advisory
Committees (LACs) that provided village members with comfort that their actions were



                                            21
consistent with agreed principals, and ensured a more holistic co-management approach
rather than a village-based piecemeal approach.

More attention must be paid to M&E. Adequate attention to M&E design,
implementation and utilization is important for every operation, but is essential for
a project that proposes to test a new modality for park management that would
serve as the model for other parks. Capturing baselines against which to measure
progress and test effectiveness are a critical part of project preparation, and should not be
left until later in the project, when this could delay measuring success and cause the
project to capture an inflated baseline rather than the without-project scenario.

Safeguard policies should be applied proactively. Applicable safeguard policies must
be triggered and applied in all projects, including those whose explicit objectives aim to
protect people and the environment.

A five-year project lifespan is not appropriate. PA projects in remote areas with weak
institutions, inconsistent community support, a fragile financial base, poor communities
who depend on PA resources for their livelihoods and uncertain political support need to
be recognized as long-term engagements.

Flexibility is important in a dynamic context. One of the important challenges in
Pakistan during the life of the project was the rapidly changing political and security
environment. Flexibility in project design can make implementation more robust by
allowing projects to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to modify the
structure and nature of project elements if needed. Moreover, task teams need to be
prepared and empowered to take actions necessary to address inadequate project design.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
There were no cofinanciers for this project
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
No comments received from civil society partners




                                             22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                     Percentage of
         Components               Estimate (US$      Estimate (US$
                                                                      Appraisal
                                    millions)          millions)
PROTECTED AREA
BIODIVERSITY                            7.05               6.93          98%
MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY OF
                                        2.13               2.01          94%
PARK MANAGEMENT
HUMAN RESOURCE
                                        0.36               0.26          73%
DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT COORDINATION
                                        0.46               1.01         219%
AND MONITORING

           Total Baseline Cost           10.00            10.21         102%
Physical Contingencies                  0.27
Price Contingencies                     0.48
            Total Project Costs        10.75
Project Preparation Facility
                                        0.00
(PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00
   Total Financing Required            10.75



(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal Actual/Late
                                     Type of     Estimate st Estimate Percentage
         Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing     (US$        (US$    of Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                      0.67        1.08        161%
 Global Environment Facility
                                                  10.08      9.13       91%
(GEF)




                                          23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The following components were envisaged at appraisal: (A) Protected Area Biodiversity
Management; (B) Sustainability of Park Management; (C) Human Resource
Development and (D) Project Coordination and Monitoring. The outputs by each of the
above components are discussed in detail below:

Component A. Protected Area Biodiversity Management

Process framework for participation of custodial communities in park management and
conservation: The main achievement in this component has been the establishment of a
robust consultative framework to involve local communities in decision making on
protected area management and community investments in the three protected areas.
Over 5,000 families living in, and around the three protected areas have participated in
the consultative process and project related activities. The consultation process
supporting community ownership was effective as indicated in the strong community
structures that seem to be functioning well at the three parks. Specific guidelines and
rules were developed and used for community mobilization, mapping of community
resource utilization, formation of VCCs, development of PA resource management
strategies and mitigation, and participatory monitoring. The individual provinces intend
to use these tested guidelines for enhancing community participation in other PAs within
their respective areas.

Formulation of detailed park management plan and strategy: PA Management planning
has undergone a fundamental shift during the project with participatory processes now
mainstreamed in the management strategy. All three parks have new or updated
management plans that have been developed with the engagement of the wider
community and focuses not only on enforcement, but also management interventions that
engage and benefit local communities. There is enhanced capacity in the three PAs to
prepare and update their management plans. In each park, revised legislation now
recognizes the participation of communities in park management and sustainable use of
resources within the parks.

Improvement of park infrastructure: Park infrastructure has improved noticeably through
the project. New and strategically useful infrastructure such as park staff housing,
administrative buildings, trail networks, water supply schemes and patrol tents have been
established under the project, and have helped improve park management and
surveillance. The project created park administration facilities in Machiara and Chitral,
and staff quarters in Hingol will enable the continued provision of management and
administrative oversight for activities in the respective parks. In addition, a number of
trail networks were created or improved in Machiara and Chitral and irrigation and water
supply schemes developed in these two PAs. At the community level, the VCCs at all
three PAs have been able to solicit new and improved community infrastructure in the
form of water supply and irrigation systems, solar lighting, fuelwood distribution and




                                           24
liquid propane gas outlets, local health dispensaries and health staff, housing
improvements and trail upgrading from non-project funding sources.

Improvement of park operations: The purchase of equipment such as binoculars,
communication and other field equipment has enhanced surveillance and enforcement at
each park. Additionally, surveillance and enforcement capacity has also been enhanced
with community participation. Communities have recognized the economic value of
protecting their resources from exploitation from outsiders and developed and improved
surveillance and management structures to manage them. Staff and community capacity
to reduce illegal activities has greatly improved. Almost 700,000 hectares of biodiversity
rich habitat is now more effectively managed in the three parks, with improved
management intervention, surveillance and community participation.

Baseline resource inventory, research, habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment:
Development of geographic information systems based topographic and ecological
databases for all three parks that provided a valuable tool for protected area management
planning. These databases provide information on distribution and habitat types within
the parks and are helpful in monitoring wildlife changes through time. Baseline research
on vegetation, ornithology, rangelands, socio-economic conditions and wildlife are
helping park staff define interventions for improving management of park resources.
Periodic monitoring of key wildlife species and their distribution has provided valuable
information on the status of species and the health of the ecosystem. Each park has
developed community based monitoring guidelines that will enable a continued and
regular monitoring of the status of key species populations, PA management
effectiveness, community participation and other related aspects.

Public environmental awareness and outreach: The project has made a remarkable
contribution to public awareness by targeting communities, politicians and, importantly
religious leaders. VCCs members have emphasized that they have learnt about the
importance of conservation through the project. They seem to now have a strong sense of
ownership and pride in the uniqueness of their natural resources. Signboards are
widespread around the surroundings of the parks, newsletters in local language and
leaflets are available, information about study and exposure visit and training workshops
for staff and communities are widely circulated and a number of nature clubs for children
are functioning.

Component B. Sustainability of Park Management

The sustainability of project interventions as outlined in the Appraisal PAD was to be
achieved through: (i) a Fund for Protected Areas (Park Association, or FPA);
(ii) establishment of VCCs, which would empower local communities to conserve
biodiversity within PAs; (iii) improved capacity within provincial wildlife departments
for effective management of PAs; and (iv) creating awareness of the importance of
conservation. The FPA has been established with legal status, governed by a board of
directors, with defined rules and regulations and financial procedures, and management
and fund raising expertise. However, the FPA is not fully operational. To be fully



                                           25
operational, it is expected to generate matching funds from in-country sources. MOE is
in discussion with the government to solicit public funds to enable the FPA to become
fully functional. In the meantime, a PC1 (project proposal) has been developed to seek
federal government resources to continue some level of support (namely technical
assistance and training) to the three PAs until such time as the FPA is functional and
generates sufficient resources to support the PAs.

VCCs have been empowered and co-federated at the PA level into larger district or sub-
district entities to give the VCCs a greater voice and status. The implementation of the
VCC revolving funds and microfinance initiatives give reason to believe that some, if not
all conservation activities will continue on the medium and longer term. Project staff
positions have been regularized in two of the three PAs (and discussions are ongoing to
do the same in the third park) that will provide the institutional capacity to continue to
manage the PAs and engage the local communities. Awareness raising has had a very
positive outcome and will no doubt contribute significantly to future conservation efforts.

Component C. Human Resource Development

The capacity of the staff in the three PAs has been substantially enhanced technically and
physically and has helped facilitate and guide park management. Collaboration with TA
teams and participation in courses at local and foreign universities has built technical
capacity, and physical capacity has improved by purchase of equipment, vehicles and
construction of park headquarters to help coordinate their activities. The increase in
populations of selected key species and reduction in the number of illegal and
unsustainable activities is indicative of the enhanced capacity of the staff to manage the
parks as well as carry out monitoring and community development activities. The
approval of 80% of project staff at Chitral and all of the project staff at Hingol will
significantly help them to continue and sustain conservation activities. The Wildlife
Departments of AJK and NWFP have shown interest in replicating the project
participatory model in other protected areas in their respective provinces, and the
enhanced capacity and experience developed through the project would be beneficial in
this respect.

Component D. Project Coordination and Monitoring

Although the field level execution of the project was the responsibility of the respective
provincial governments through their respective wildlife and forestry departments, some
limited level of coordination was envisaged at the federal level. While, not fully
successful, the MOE helped facilitate the development of legislation relating to PAs and
management plans at the provincial level and ensuring that there was some
standardization across each level. The MOE also helped organize regular technical
meeting and site visits to enable the PA staff to share experiences and learning. Building
on experiences in the three PAs, the MOE facilitated the development of performance
indicators for PAs in Pakistan that can be used more widely throughout the country.
MOE also facilitated an independent review and impact assessment of the project that
assessed whether planned project outcomes and objectives have been met. However,



                                            26
some studies such as the ecotourism study was not commissioned due to the non-
availability of suitable local expertise. Further, the initial lethargy (subsequently rectified
by the transfer of the project to the Inspector General of Forests) delayed the design and
operationalization of the Park Association.




                                              27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project did not undertake an economic analysis. Instead, as required for a full-sized
GEF project, an incremental cost analysis was prepared during project preparation,
assessing the total cost of GEF alternative at US$10.8 million. This was also the actual
cost of the project. A rough assessment of cost-effectiveness is possible on the basis of
comparing PA management cost per unit area with other countries. Considering the total
project cost of US$10.8 million and the total hectares managed under the project
(619,043 ha in Hingol; 7,750 ha in Chitral Gol; and 37,147 in Machiara), the project
provided a degree of park protection and management for eight years of its duration,
which translates to about US$2/ha/year (or US$185 per km² per year). Correcting for the
cost of the three components not focused solely on management activities, the annual cost
of PA management was about $1.5/ha/year.

This was broadly consistent with a mean budget of PA budgets from developing
countries during 1990s, which was US$1.57/ha/yr (James et al, 1999).




                                           28
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


   (a) Task Team members
                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                     Title               Unit
                                                             Specialty
    Malcolm Jansen     Senior Environment Specialist SASDI     TTL
   Ethel Sennhauser     Sector Manager Agriculture LCSAR     Past TTL
                          Senior Natural Resource
     Najib Murtaza                                           Past TTL
                                  Specialist
     Nadim Khouri            Senior Agriculturist            Past TTL
                                                             Social and
                         Senior Social Development
      Zia Al Jalaly                                  SASDS participatory
                                  Specialist
                                                              aspects
    Anwar Ali Bhatti          Financial Analyst      SACPK Disbursement
                         Senior Rural Development
  Kevin John Crockford                               SASDA
                                  Specialist
                         Sr. Financial Management            Financial
      Hasan Saqib                                    SARFM
                                  Specialist                Management
         Asif Ali        Sr. Procurement Specialist SARPS Procurement
     Valerie Hickey        Environment Specialist    LCSDE
     Riaz Mahmood      Financial Management Analyst SARFM Disbursement
     Tekola Dejene               Consultant          AFTAR
  Hasan Masood Mirza             Consultant          SARPS Procurement
                                                             Financial
     Naveed Saeed                Consultant          SARFM
                                                            Management
     Shabir Ahmed             Program Assistant      SASDO
       Ghulam Ali             Program Assistant      SASDO
    Shahnaz Meraj              Team Assistant        SASDO
      Cecilia Belita       Sr. Program Assistant     SASSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
    Stage of Project Cycle                                 US$ Thousands
                                 No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
  FY94                                 n.a.                      27.62
  FY95                                 n.a.                      27.33
  FY96                                 n.a.                      29.57
  FY97                                 n.a.                     106.47
  FY98                                 n.a.                     133.34



                                     29
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle            No. of staff weeks   US$ Thousands
                                                        (including travel and
                                                        consultant costs)
  FY99                                     n.a.                     76.15
  FY00                                     17.22                    43.91
  FY01                                     39.82                    71.00
  FY02                                        .47                    2.44
                          Total:                                  509.77
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                    32.17                    31.65
  FY03                                    23.44                    75.93
  FY04                                    15.07                    51.78
  FY05                                     9.37                    22.63
  FY06                                    16.69                    68.95
  FY07                                     8.51                    31.56
  FY08                                    10.14                    40.88
  FY09                                     5.15                    22.39
  FY10                                     7.76                    40.25
                          Total:         128.30                   386.02

*n.a. ­ not available




                                       30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Neither the project nor the ICR exercise carried out a formal beneficiary survey at the end
of the project. However, an independent evaluation did interview individuals and families
involved in two of the three PAs. The main feedback was that Village Conservation
Committees (VCCs) were well received and their institutional development considered a
real benefit of the project. However, Women's Village Conservation Committees
(WVCCs) did not necessarily thrive and many women involved felt that they were still
marginalized in decision-making, largely by the other VCCs. In addition, the VCCs
related to the parks on a strict quid pro quo basis, supporting conservation outcomes
when they were provided direct benefits in the form of micro-credit or alternative
incomes.




                                            31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A formal stakeholder workshop was not organized.




                                         32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Background

Protected Areas Management Project (PAMP) was implemented in Pakistan between
January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2009. The project was funded by Global Environment
Facility (GEF) under a Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA) through the World Bank
(WB) with a cost of US$10.750 million including a contribution of US$0.670 million by
a Government of Pakistan. It addressed conservation of globally important habitats and
species of three Protected Areas (PAs) of the country including Hingol National Park
(HNP) in Baluchistan Province, Chitral Gol National Park (CGNP) in the North West
Frontier Province (NWFP) and Machiara National Park (MNP) in Azad Jammu &
Kashmir (AJK). These Protected Areas represent marine, estuarine, arid range land,
mountain and forest ecosystems and contain species of national, regional and global
significance.

The Project was implemented by the Ministry of Environment, GoP (Grant Recipient),
GoB, GoNWFP and GoAJK. The Project had 4 major components including Protected
Area Biodiversity Management, Sustainability of park management, human resource
development and project coordination and monitoring. Major interventions of the project
included integration of custodian communities in the Park management and conservation;
preparation of Park Management Plans for three Protected Areas; Development of Park
infrastructure; improvement of Park operations; carrying out baseline inventories,
research, habitat improvement and wildlife enrichment; Public environment awareness
and Human resource development.

Overall assessment of Project Outcomes
PAMP implementation has rendered numerous useful outcomes. Integration of custodian
communities in the Park management has resulted in emergence of community
institutions at the grass root level. The process of community organization culminated in
formation of Village Conservation Committees, Cluster Organizations, Local Support
Organizations and District Conservation Committees. Park Management Teams came
into being and Village Conservation & Development Plans were prepared through a
participatory process. Village Conservation Funds were established for implementation of
these plans. The capacity of community institutions and the staff of Park Administration
was developed. Management Plans were prepared for Hingol, Chitral Gol and Machiara
National Parks with the participation of custodian communities, the PMTs and other
stakeholders. These plans are now available to the Park Managers to pursue the
prescribed Park Management. The Management Plans not only provide management
strategies but also form basis for future projects and readily provide data on Park
resources. The improvement of Park infrastructure has resulted in a network of trails,
mountain huts, Rangers stations, roads, bridges, office & residential buildings etc. This
has ensured the presence of Park staff within the Park premises and has enhanced their
mobility in the Protected Areas thus improving their surveillance against poaching and
illegal exploitation Park resources. Improvement of Park infrastructure has also benefited
the communities and has enhanced visitor's moment in the P.As thus promoting



                                           33
ecotourism. Improvement of Park operations has benefited Park surveillance through
improved communication between the field staff and Park headquarters. Establishment of
Ranger Stations and field hut has facilitated staff accommodation in the far flung areas of
the Park as a measure against poaching. Appointment of Community Wildlife Watchers
has provided jobs to community members at the local level and has acted as an incentive
for their participation in conservation. The reports and studies physical and biological
resources of the Pars are now available for management planning, education and
monitoring of trends. The programme of conservation education and awareness raising is
in progress and the professional capacity of Park staff and communities has been
enhanced. The institutions for P.A management are now in place with scientifically
prepared management plans, supportive communities. Trained and well equipped staff
with good park infrastructure and operational capacity.

Project Performance
The Project has been completed successfully. The overall performance of the project was
satisfactory. The targets set for each of the three Protected Areas have been achieved. The
objectives of community organization and integration of custodian communities into Park
management was successfully achieved. The Park infrastructure in the project area was
effectively improved and capacity of the Park staff was successfully improved for
effectiveness of Park operations. Management Plans were prepared for Hingol, Chitral
Gol and Machiara National Park and baseline inventories of the Park resources were
conducted. The habitat improvement works, research studies and wildlife enrichment
program was also carried out on schedule. The comprehensive program of Public
environment awareness was addressed and mechanism for sustainability of Park
Management was outlined. Human resource development was also carried out for
building capacity of the Park staff and communities. All the project interventions were
carried out despite belated start of the project, delayed release of funds due to procedural
constraints, disastrous earthquake in Machiara National Park, heavy floods in Hingol
National Park and lake of trained staff for project implementation. All the implementing
agencies worked in complete harmony for a successful completion of PAMP.

Statement of expenditure
Expenditure incurred by Project implementing agencies on implementation of PAMP is
shown in table below.

Implementing                GEF ­ TFG Allocation                         Local Component
  Agency                      ( Million Rupees)                          (Million Rupees)
                       Allocation   Expenditure   Difference   Allocation   Expenditure   Difference

       MoE
                        22.494        24.281       +1.787        3.900        1.374        -2.526

  Hingol National
                       220.918       180.170       40.748       25.730        30.438       +4.708
       Park
Chitral Gol National
        Park           193.805       208.950      +15.145       19.406        19.622       +0.216




                                                  34
Machiara National
      Park          207.434    257.931      +50.479     15.900      19.400       +0.500




Lesson Learned
The PAMP has been highly useful in conservation of biodiversity and P.A management
in Pakistan and has been received by communities and implementing agencies with
particular interest and enthusiasm. The Project was a demonstration of good team work of
all the implementing agencies. Integration of communities into P.A management, there
empowerment and provision of legal and financial incentives were key to successful
participatory management of P.As. The process of community organization for
participatory natural resource management is highly sensitive, complex and lengthy. It
requires specially trained manpower to carry it out. All the implementing agencies
therefore require capacity building of their staff for the purpose. The project
implementation period of 5 years was too short for implementation of PAMP. Extension
of the project period by 2 years was a blessing. The implementation of such a project
should be preceded by a preparatory phase of 1-2 years to cater for the initial staff
orientation courses, opening of special accounts and community organization. The
planned project period was not enough for the maturity of community institutions which
still require considerable time to get going. The custodian communities had high
expectation about incentives in the form of jobs and village development program but the
amount of VCF was quite limited. However the project has built capacity of communities
to tap other sources for micro-enterprise development. Capacity building of the Park staff
should be a continuous process. Emphasis should be placed on long term courses instead
of several short term trainings. Rapid turns over in T.A Teams affected the project
adversely. This situation needs to be overcome in future projects. A number of
constraints and bottle necks were faced in project implementation. It has been
experienced that dedication, team work and endurance by the implementing agencies can
overcome all the hurdles. Apart from the field work, financial management of the project
is highly important. The staff of the project needed through training in World Bank
Accounting Procedures.

Assessment of Sustainability
Sustainability of P.A management in the post project period is of vital importance to take
this unique model of participatory management to maturity and institutionalize it as a
future practice. The prospects of sustainability of P.A management are encouraging.
Financial sustainability of the program will be ensured partially through Fund for
Protected Areas (FPA) an endowment established for this purpose. The amount of FPA
needs to be enhanced by contribution of GoP share and fund raising from other sources.
Windows of Provincial Development Programme are also open and the respective
implementing agencies can tap these windows. Prospects of attracting other donors to this
programme also exist. Replenishment of Village Conservation Fund (VCF) is also
important for implementation VCDPs.

The sustainability of institutions including the Wildlife and Forestry Departments as well
as community institutions will also determine the sustainability of P.A management.


                                           35
There is great likelihood that these institutions will live long. The GoNWFP and GoB
have already regularized several positions in Chitral Gol and Hingol National Park
respectively and the Govt of AJK is expected to do in same these in June 2010. Support
to community institutions by the Govt and other donors will ensured their sustainability
Technical Sustainability will be ensure by the respective Wildlife & Forest Departments
who are fully capable of managing Protected Areas on the lines of PAMP. Since the
Project Directors are still serving as heads of these institutions, technical support for the
programme will be available. Maintenance of Park infrastructure is the responsibility of
implementing agencies. The importance of this maintenance needs emphasis. Since the
Park operations form a part of regular programme of the Wildlife Department and the
heads of Park Administration in Baluchistan, NWFP and AJK are staunch advocates of
P.A management, the sustainability of this programme is ensured.

Future Direction
The PAMP should be adapted as a model for P.A management. It should be replicated
and extended to other Protected Areas in the country. The GEF, World Bank and the
Ministry of Environment should seriously consider launching of a Phase-II of PAMP to
stabilize the achievements of the concluded project, strengthen VCCs and other
community institutions and make P.A management sustainable. This project should
preferably be for a period of 7-10 years and should keep in view the lessons learnt in
PAMP implementation. The MoE may expedite contribution of the share of GoP towards
the FPA and make the fund operational. Funds may also be arranged for administrative
expenses of FPA including hiring of a full time Chief Executive. The World Bank may
also relax the condition of linking of operation of FPA to receipt of GoP contribution.
The unspent amount of TFG may also be transferred to the FPA.

The community institutions should be strengthened. The Park Administration should
keep constant liaison with the communities and help them in securing donor assistance
for their micro enterprise development and Village Conservation and Development Plans.

All the project staff should be retained in their respective positions and kept mobile and
busy with the same routine functions that they performed earlier. Community Wildlife
Watchers must not be laid off and should continue performing their duties as in the
project.

The Project Implementing Agencies should regularized the services of project staff for
the post project period and place them on recurring expenditure. Special conservation and
development projects should be prepared and launched in the three Protected Areas to
implement Park Management Plans developed under the PAMP.

The other government departments and the NGOs should be encouraged to focus there
conservation and development program on the villages in and around the Protected
Areas; through custodian communities.

It is proposed that GEF/ World Bank may make arrangements to continue providing
technical advice and coordination service to the Project Implementing Agencies of



                                             36
Hingol, Chitral Gol and Machiara National Park as a support to sustainability of PAMP
achievements.




                                         37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


                                Not applicable




                                     38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank documents
  · Project Appraisal Document
  · Aide-memoires
  · ISRs
  · Quality Assurance Group Evaluation, 2006
  · Audited financial reports

Other
   · IUCN, 1996. Biodiversity Action Plan and Protected Areas Management Project
      Interim Report
   · Dunira Strategy, 2009. Third Party Evaluation
   · Management Plans for Machiara, Hingol and Chitral
   · Community based monitoring reports for Machiara, Hingol and Chitral
   · Revised Wildlife Protection Acts for Machiara, Hingol and Chitral
   · Performance Indicators for Management of Protected Areas in Pakistan (2002)
   · Proceedings of Media Workshop on Environmental Journalism (2004)
   · Operational Manual of Community Participation (Machiara)
   · Manual for Training in Fuel Efficient Stoves for Women (2004)
   · Community Microplans
   · Sustainability Plan for Chitral Gol
   · Framework for Monitoring of Park Management Performance for Hingol (2006)
   · Fund for Protected Areas: Baselines, Structure, Powers and Operational Manual
   · James, A., Gaston, K., & Balmford, A. 1999. Balancing the earth's accounts.
      Nature 401: 323­324.

Project Progress and Completion Reports
   · Machiara National Park (March 2003-December 2007; January 2008-December
       2009)
   · Hingol National Park (2005-2006; July 2008-March 2009)
   · Chitral Gol National Park (MTR report)
   · Machiara National Park (Project Completion Report)




                                        39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 31282
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60°                               65°             UZBEK.       TAJIK.                                                        CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                   PA K I S TA N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHITRAL GOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL PARK
                            PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MACHIARA                        35°
                     CHITRAL GOL, HINGOL, AND MACHIARA NATIONAL PARKS                                                                                                                                                                                                  35°                                                                                                              NATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARK                   Approx. Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kabul          Peshawar                      of Control
                                                                                 NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARIES                                                                                                          PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                                   N.W.F.P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AFGHANISTAN                                                               Islamabad
                                                                                 BUFFER ZONE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                 VILLAGES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ISLAMIC                                                                                                               Jhe
                                                                                 RIVERS AND STREAMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REP. OF
                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF IRAN
                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PUNJAB
                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30°
                                                       on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                              30°
                                                       judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                       acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PA K I S TA N
      71°30'                                                              71°45'                                                                                              65°30'                                                              66°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BALOCHISTAN                                       R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           us

 CHITRAL GOL NATIONAL PARK                                                                                                                     HINGOL NATIONAL PARK                                                                                                                                                                                     Ind



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I N D I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HINGOL NATIONAL PARK                       SINDH

                                                                                                                                                                                  Darun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25°                                                                    Karachi
                                                                    R
                                                             Lutkho iver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              60°                                     65°                                                     70°                                        75°
                                                                                                                                                                                                     r                                                           26°
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ri
                                                                                                                      l



36°
                                                                                                                     Go




                                                                                                                              36°     26°
                                                                                        BUFFER ZONE                                                                                           ol
                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                                                                                                  shi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             73°30'                                                                                                                     73°45'
                                                                           l




                                                                                                                                                                                       Hi
                                                                        Go




                                                                                                                Too
                                                                     th




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MACHIARA
                                                                   re
                                                                    i
                                                                 Aw




                                                                                                                          Rive
                                                                                                                              r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL PARK
                                                                                                                Mastuj
                                                                  Bir
                                                                     mo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Besri
                                                                          La
                                                                     g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Doba
                                                                           sh
                                                                             t




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Taranch                                                                                              Paharan
                                                                                                        R.




                                                                 Kaswir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Seri
                                                                                      Shahmiran-                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ghatian
                                                                                                     tral




                                                             Meran Post
                                                                      Ch                 deh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chatian/G.Khetar
                                               Broonshal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Garan
                                                                                                    Chi




                                                               Post      itr
                                                                             a   lG    Shaldane                                                                                             Dandale                                                                                                    Bherri          Kutli           Chakrian/Doliar/Dana
                                                                                   ol   Balach Chewdok
                                             Dangarikandeh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dabrial
                                                                                                Noghor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Machiara
                                                   Muglandeh                                     Rehankot
                                                     Zargarandeh                                  Goldoor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chatha/Mohri/Panjnad
                                                         Jangbazaar            CHITRAL              Kurkashandeh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Panjur Galli
                                                                                                     Tingshen                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Koli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Singal                                                                         Machiara
                                                                                                                                                                       Hinglach                Sham Road (derelict)                                                    34°30'                            Nullah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Minha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Serli                                         34°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ces                                                                                                                        Chinian Khetar         Serli            Sacha
                                    Kalash Valley                                                                                                              Kundrach                         Ac                                         Phor Coast
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25°30'                                                                               Sacha              East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chandargop                                                          Khari              Serina/
                                     (Ramboor)                                                                                        25°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Guard Outpost                                      Nullah             Batdara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   West
                                                                                                                                                                            Aghor Coast                                                                                                                                                                                                      Konkan
                                 BUFFER ZONE
                                                           Ram




                                                                                                                                                                             Guard HQ                    D h a k                  Sapat                                                                                       Pala Zerin       Panjur
                                                                                                                                                       Malan                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dawalian
                                                            bur




                                                                                                                                                                                                     P l a i n                    Bander                                                                                                                                        Nullah
                                                                                                                                                                    Kund                                                                                                                                                                                      Jing Bala &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Patika                                     Jing Zerini
                                                             Go




                                                                                                                                                                    Malir    Hingol River          Poti                                                                                                             Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bander
                                                                 l




35°45'                                                                                                                      35°45'                                             Estuary
                                                                                      Chitral R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N eelum River

                                                                                                                                                                 5 fathom/9m mark
                     N




                                                                                                .
                     TA
                 NIS

                           N
                          ISTA
                HA
               AFG

                     PAK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0              10         20                                           0                     5                             10
                                                                                                                                                       Arabian                    Sea
                                                                                                    0            5            10                                                                                           KILOMETERS                                                                   KILOMETERS
                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
      71°30'                                                              71°45'                                                     65°                                          65°30'                                                                66°                  73°30'                                                                                                                     73°45'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2010
